Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15666
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Credit 2056-TG)
October 23, 1996
Industry and Energy Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not other wise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc
Fixed Parity: CFA franc 50 = French franc I (floating) through January 15, 1994; and
CFA franc 100 = FRF I (floating), since January 16, 1994
Equivalency of I US$ in CFA franc since 1988
(Annual Average)
1988        297.85                 1992               264.69
1989        319.01                 1993               283.16
1990        272.2- 6               1994               555.20*
1991        282.11                 1995 (through June) 504.35
* The CFA franc was devalued by 100% on January 16, 1994
Appraisal year average (1987/88) was CFA franc 300 per US$1.
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government and OPTT: January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB              -     African Development Bank
CFD               -      Caisse Francaise de Developpement (France)
CIDA              -      Canadian International Development Agency
DEL               -      Direct Exchange Line
EC                -      Enterprise Contract (OPTT's contract plan)
FAC               -      Fonds Africain de Cooperation (France)
GOT               -      Government of the Republic of Togo
ICB               -      International Competitive Bidding
ITU               -      International Telecommunications Union (Geneva)
MEPT              -      Ministry of Equipment, Posts, and Telecommunications
OPTT              -      Office des Postes et Telecomunications du Togo
PE                -      Public Enterprise
PPF               -      Project Preparation Facility
SAP               -      Structural Adjustment Program
UNDP              -      United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation  Summary   ...........................................................                                              i
Part 1:  Project Implementation Assessment .I
A.  Background and Project Objectives                                               .I
B. Achievement of Objectives                                                   .3
C.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the
Project                                         .8
D. Project Sustainability                                                 .9
E. Bank Performance .10
F. Borrower Performance .11
G. Assessment of Outcome .11
H.       Future Operation  ..........................................    12
1.       Key Lessons Learned  ...........................................    12
Part II:    Statistical Tables ..........................................                                                    14
Table  1:   Summary of Assessment    ..............................                       ............    15
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits   ..........................................                         17
Table 3:   Project Timetable   .............                      ........................ . ...           18
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative
Estimated and Actual  ...............................                ...........    19
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .................. .........   20
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ......................................   22
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project  ....................................                    ......   23
Table 8A: Project Costs   ..........................................   25
Table 8B: Project Financing   ..........................................   26
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits  ..........................................                        27
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants  .................................                     .........    28
Table  I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ........... ...    29
Table  12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs  ..........................................                     30
Table  13: Bank Resources:  Missions  .................................... ......   31
Appendices:
A. Missions Aide Memoire ..........................................                                        33
B.  Borrower Contribution to the ICR ..........................................                           40
C. Map ...........................................                                                          54
Tiis document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofriciaJ duties. Its contents mnay not other%ise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit No. 2056-TO
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Telecommunications Project in Togo, for which Credit 2056-TO in the amount of
SDR 12.4 million (US$16.0 million equivalent) was approved on June 29, 1989 and
made effective on July 12, 1990.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1995, compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1994. Final disbursement took place on July 31, 1995, at which
time an undisbursed balance of SDR 1.1 million (US$1.6 million equivalent) was
cancelled. Cofmancing for the project was provided by AfDB, CFD, EIB, ITU/UNDP,
and OPTT.
The ICR was prepared by Svetoslav Tintchev of the Telecommunications and
Informatics Division (IENTI), Project Manager, and reviewed by Mary Oakes Smith,
Chief, Industry and Energy Division (AF4IE), Paul Bermingham, Public Enterprises
Specialist (AF4IE), and Franz Kaps, Operations Advisor (AF4DR). The Borrower
provided its contribution and comments that are included as Appendix B to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision
mission to Lome in October, 1994. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR
by providing documentary information and presenting views reflected in the mission's
Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), and summarizing its own evaluation of the project's
execution in Appendix B.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit No. 2056-TO
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.       Public telecommunications services in Togo are provided by the Office des Postes
et Telecommunications du Togo (OPTT), a fully Government-owned Public Establishment
under the policy and technical guidance of the Ministry of Equipment, Posts and
Telecommunications (MEPT). OPTT was established and began its operations in January
1987, on the basis of a 1986 decree transferring to the new entity the monopolies and the
responsibilities for the Togolese postal and telecommunications services from former
Departmental Directorates of MEPT. The purpose of the change was to enable the more
commercial provision of the telecommunications services which were previously constrained
by OPTT's statute as a public administration under the Government budget.
2.       Prior to the telecommunications project under Credit 2056-TO, the Bank had had
no previous experience in the sector in Togo. When OPTT was created, the performance of
the sector was very poor and the facilities inadequate, suffering chronic under-investment and
lacking adequate institutional capacity. The Government of the Republic of Togo (GOT) first
requested IDA assistance in 1987 to help formulate an appropriate sector improvement
strategy and to coordinate and assist in the execution of OPTT's investment program which
had been prepared with the help of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). An
IDA sector status report in mid-1987 stressed that the poor state of the facilities constituted a
bottleneck to the country's economic activity and development and that it was urgently
required to expand and improve the networks in and between the Lome and the Kara regions.
Simultaneously, substantial assistance was needed to implement the priority program and
establish OPTT on a sound operational, financial and managerial footing in both its postal
and telecommunications operations. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved by
IDA in 1988. The project was prepared in consultation with other potential donors and was
appraised by IDA at the end of 1988.
Project Objectives
3.       The primary objectives of the project were to:  (a)  support a program of
institutional and management improvement in the telecommunications sector; (b) improve
the quality of service to existing subscribers and extend the provision of services to meet
current and projected demand in the two main economic regions; and (c) improve OPTT's
financial performance, with a view to increasing the flow of finds to the Borrower.



ii
4.       The project, supported by IDA Credit 2056-TO for SDR 12.4 million (US$16.0
million equivalent), has been implemented by OPTT. To meet the above objectives, the
project comprised: (a) extension and modernization of local line networks and switching
installations in the greater Lome and Kara regions, approximately doubling the existing
capacities up to 25,000 lines; (b) construction of a high capacity Lome-Kara digital
microwave link; (c) installation of 15 rural communications systems in the two regional areas
concerned; (d) upgrading and modernizing the operational and maintenance facilities to
improve efficiency and quality of service; and (e) technical assistance studies and training for
institutional development and management improvement and strengthening of OPTT's
managerial and organizational capabilities. A Project Agreement between IDA and OPTT
detailed the project implementation and operation conditions, including construction,
technical, operational, and financial targets to be achieved. The project was implemented
from 1990 to mid-1995.
5.       The project was designed within the context of a sector structure that would
continue to be dominated by a publicly owned monopoly provider of service. Improved
provision of telecommunications services would enhance economic development and extemal
trade activities and create a financial flow from the sector which would support its continued
development and increased resource transfer to Government. The project objectives and its
components were relevant, balanced and realistic in the context of the then sector structure.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.      Implementation Schedule, Project Scope, and Costs.  The IDA  financed
components of the investment program were successfully completed by mid-1995 with about
six months' delay from the initial schedule. Due to rapid technological change during
implementation, which proved a key external factor in achieving the project physical
objectives, the project concept and scope were adapted toward a complete digitalization of the
network. Digital technology has become prevalent worldwide and prices have rapidly
decreased under international competition. The plan to expand switching capacity was
increased from initially planned 12,000 to 23,000 new exchange lines of digital equipment,
including the replacement of 11,000 lines of old equipment in the two regions. The Lome-
Kara digital microwave link was completed in 1993, adding a 100 km spur route to the north
of the country, and rural transmission systems were installed in 23 areas compared to 15
planned. Local networks and operation/maintenance common facilities were adapted
accordingly. The expanded revised installations were realized at the cost initially planned,
thus exceeding the initial investment objectives of the project. Total project cost was
estimated at US$44.6 million at appraisal, with IDA contributing US$16.0 million. Actual
cost was US$46.1 million. The lower costs of the switching and transmission components
enabled OPTT to purchase additional installations.
7.       Physical Results. The primary objectives of expansion and modernization of the
networks were fully met and somewhat exceeded in the revised project concept. By the end
of 1995, switching installation capacity was 25,300 lines compared to a SAR target of 25,000.
The core digital installations in the two main regions will enable the installation in 1996-97 of



iii
about 3,000 additional subscriber terminal units at very low cost, up to a total of 28,600 lines,
with integrated digital operational facilities for all systems by 1997. Service quality and staff
efficiency improved, but some targets such as call completion rates are expected to be met in
1996 only when the additional installations will be in service.
8.       Operational and Financial Results.  Operational and production targets for
telecommunications are expected to be fully met in 1996 when all digital facilities for
operation and maintenance will be in service. Maintenance targets, such as faults reported per
annum per 100 lines and call completion percentages, already exceed the SAR targets. Other
targets for staff productivity, marketing/quality of service, and operating costs per line will be
met at full utilization of network capacity in 1997. Financial targets, however, were only
partially fulfilled, due in particular to:  (a)  the incomplete separation of accounting
procedures for postal and telecoms activities and the failure to introduce a reliable integrated
accounting system; (b) failure by GOT to pay OPTT for telecommunications services (current
Government arrears represent its whole consumption during the 5-year project period); (c)
political instability in the country in 1992-93, which hampered OPTT's commercial operation;
and (d) the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994, the effect of which remains unclear as a
decision has not yet been taken on who bears the foreign exchange loss on foreign currency
denominated borrowings.
9.       Institutional Development.  The institutional objectives of the project were
restricted to the domain of the operating entity, mainly covering changes and improvements in
OPTT's internal organization and management. These improvements and the respective
obligations of GOT and OPTT were undertaken and monitored within an "Enterprise
Contract" (EC - "Contract Plan") in 1989, which included inter alia the main performance
targets of the Project Agreement and was broadly complied with. In 1991, OPTT absorbed
the international telecommunications enterprise (SATELIT), and was established as a "State
Company". The new statutes enabled more commercial provision of services and possible
separation of the postal and telecoms activities. The EP, however, was not renewed. A new
statute of personnel was established but some key measures (e.g. integrated computerized
accounting systems, managerial and financial separation of postal and telecoms activities,
implementation of tariffs study recommendations, etc.) remain to be done.
10.      In 1994, a sector restructuring study was financed from OPTT's own resources
under the project. GOT and OPTT welcomed the principal recommendations of the study,
namely to separate postal and telecoms operations into two distinct commercial entities, to
open the telecommunications sector to competition and private participation, and to establish
a regulatory framework. A constructive dialogue between the Bank and the sector authorities
started under the project. A Sector Restructuring Seminar was organized by GOT and OPTT,
in February 1995, with the participation of the Bank's Private Sector Development and
Telecommunications Specialists. A sector policy document and a plan to initiate and
implement the restructuring is now under preparation.



iv
Bank's and Borrower's Performance, Project Sustainability
11.      The project benefits are significant and are expected to be sustained.  The
estimated economic rate of return is now 26 percent, compared to 31 percent at the time of
appraisal and is considered satisfactory in the light of the difficult operating environment.
The economic rate of return is considered to be a more appropriate measure of the
sustainability than the annual financial rate of return as it takes into account projected future
costs and benefits of the Project. Most of the major physical and institutional goals of the
project have been achieved. Some of them will be exceeded at full operation in 1996. The
project established a good base to sustain efficient operation and continued development, thus
better serving users. The Borrower was able to reach the improved investment and operational
targets with less than one year implementation delay, despite political instability during the
construction period.
12.      With regard to the organizational and financial issues, targets were not fully met.
From the restructuring study under the project, GOT and OPTT are now fully aware of the
need to further restructure the sector, in line with the current worldwide trends toward
competition and participation of the private sector within an adequate regulatory framework.
Steps in this direction, which IDA is continuing to support, would enhance the prospect for
sustaining the benefits of the project.
13.      The project outcome is assessed as satisfactory, with good prospects for future
operation and further improvement of the sector structure.
Key Findings, Future Operation, and Lessons Learned
14.      The key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)   The telecommunications industry is one which is experiencing fundamental
and rapid structural change and accelerating demand for service. To meet
Togo's telecommunications needs, and the central role which communications
and information will play in achieving the country's development objectives,
the Government will need to continue and extend, with the participation of all
stakeholders, the process of sector reform which it has recently commenced
with a view to opening up participation in the sector to new service providers
and creating opportunities which are attractive for private investors;
(b)   The project confirms the difficulty in achieving development objectives in the
absence of a facilitating environment. The unstable political and civil situation
in the country during 1991 to 1993, the absence of a commercial arms-length
relationship between OPTT and the Government and the failure to implement
some of the key institutional development components all contributed to the
difficulties faced by OPTT.   Nevertheless, OPTT's relatively  good



v
performance during the same period when compared to other utilities in the
country is a testament to the resilience of the telecommunications sector;
(c)   The project benefitted from new technologies and falling costs during the
implementation period; and
(d)   Those areas of the project which were successfully implemented were
facilitated by the continuity and good working relationships between staff in
both OPTT and IDA during the implementation period.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2056-TO
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background and Project Objectives
Background
1.       The first telecommunications project in Togo, which was supported by IDA
Credit 2056-TO in the amount of SDR 12.4 million (US$16.0 million equivalent) was
implemented by the Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Togo (OPTT). The
proceeds of the Credit were made available to OPTT on commercial terms for a period
of 17 years, including 5 years' grace. A Project Agreement covered the procedures,
program and conditions of project implementation, and OPTT's operation. OPTT was
established and commenced operations as the Togolese provider of posts and
telecommunications services in January 1987 on the basis of a 1986 decree transferring
to the new enterprise the rights and the responsibilities of the former Departmental
Directorates in the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications.
2.       In 1991, OPTT's statutes were modified to create a State Company, with the
same name, as a "Public Enterprise" (PE) under the 1990 PE Law reforming the
statutory and legal framework of all state-owned enterprises in Togo. OPTT also
absorbed the existing semi-public International Satellite Communications Enterprise
(SATELIT). Its new statute enabled increased autonomy from governnent and a more
commercial focus in its operations. The enlarged OPTT remained under the policy and
technical guidance of the Ministers for Equipment, Posts and Telecommunications
(MEPT) and for Public Enterprises (MPE). Its overall management was overseen by a
governmental "Surveillance Committee".
3.       When OPTT was first established, the telecommunications sector in Togo
suffered from chronic underinvestment and lacked the capacity necessary to develop
and operate the network. The Government of Togo first requested IDA's assistance in
1987 to help formulate an appropriate sector strategy and to coordinate and assist in the
execution and financing of the investment program being prepared by OPTT with ITU's
assistance. Following a brief reconnaissance mission, a sector status report was
prepared by IDA in May 1987. It concluded that given the scarcity and the poor quality
of existing facilities, a substantial short-term priority investmnent program was required
to expand and rehabilitate the networks in and between the Lome and Kara regions. In



2
addition, assistance was needed to establish OPTT on a sound managerial, operational,
and financial footing in both its telecommunications and postal operations. A Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved in 1988. The project and the related action
plan were further detailed as the first phase of OPTT's Master Plan prepared by the
ITU. The project was appraised by IDA in December 1988.
Project Objectives and Components
4.       On the basis of the above preparatory activities, the primary objectives of the
project set-up by GOT were to: (a) support a program of institutional and management
improvement in the telecommunications sector; (b) improve the quality of service to
existing subscribers and extend the provision of services to meet current and projected
demand; and (c) improve OPTT's financial performance, with a view to increasing the
flow of funds to the Government. In the context of GOT's structural adjustment
program (SAP) to improve public resources management and investment programming,
the project was in line with the traditional public utilities approach, with the view to
commercialize and more efficiently operate and develop an under-equipped sector
considered as strategic. Better satisfied and served demand for telecom services would
also enhance private sector development and trade activity.
5.       To achieve the above objectives the project comprised: (a) extension and
rehabilitation of local line networks and switching installations in the greater Lome and
Kara regions, by approximately doubling existing capacities using digital switches, up
to 25,000 available exchange lines in 1995; (b) construction of a Lome-Kara digital
microwave link with standby capability; (c) installation of rural communications
systems in 15 areas for about 450 distant subscribers; (d) upgrading and modernizing of
common facilities to improve maintenance, operational efficiency and quality of
service; and (e) technical assistance and training for improvement and strengthening of
management and organization, and of OPTT's planning, project execution, and
operational capabilities.                I
6.       A comprehensive program  of technical assistance (TA) and training,
representing about 350 staff months and including computerization of the operational,
commercial and administrative furictions was included in the project to implement part
(e) of the previous para.5. It covered six major areas: (a) project planning, supervision
and management; (b) operation and maintenance of the facilities, including subscriber
management and billing systems; (c) overall management and organization and
improved financial management of OPTT;  (d)  introduction of an adequate
management information system, with results monitored in the context of a program
contract between the entity and GOT; (e) computerization of operations, managerial
and administrative activities; and (f) human resource development and training,
reviewing staffing requirements, recruitment, promotion and compensation policies and
carrying out a comprehensive staff training program. The project also supported two
studies for: (i) demand for services and tariff restructuring; and (ii) review of sector



3
policy, leading to greater deregulation and private sector participation, separation of
postal and telecommunications activities, and reinforcement of GOT's regulatory role.
Financing and implementation of the TA component were shared between the various
cofinancing agencies and a large part of it was supported from OPTT's own resources.
An action plan and time schedule for the technical assistance was prepared in
consultation with IDA. The key steps for its implementation were agreed upon and
reflected in the SAR and project documents.
7.       The institutional objectives of the project concentrated on relieving the
organizational, management, and financial constraints within the newly created OPTT.
However, during the implementation period, a dialogue started between IDA and the
Togolese authorities which led to a new approach to sector policy with a view to
separate telecommunications and postal activities and to move away from the public
sector toward private investment and competition. The govemment's function would be
redefined to focus on its regulatory role. The sector restructuring study under the
project was completed in 1994, and financed from OPTT's own resources. Its proposals
are actively being considered by GOT and OPTT and constitute a good starting point to
define and initiate fundamental sector reform.
8.       As a whole, the project objectives and components were relevant and
feasible in consideration of the status of the sector, GOT's targets and OPTT's
capabilities at time of project inception.
B. Achievement of Objectives
Institutional and Management Improvement
9.      Institutions. The institutional objectives of this project focused on the
operating entity created in 1986, mainly covering changes in OPTT statutes and
organization and improvements in management. . These objectives were achieved with
the establishment of OPTT, in 1991, as a "State Company" which also absorbed the
International Telecommunications Enterprise (SATELIT). The new organizational
structure provides for the separation of Posts and Telecoms' operational activities and
for the decentralization and strengthening of the networks' operation and maintenance
functions. A new statute of personnel has been established, but the finance, accounting
and human resources functions remain to be separated.
10.     Management and Organization. With regard to relations between GOT and
OPTT, an "Enterprise Contract" (EC) ("contract plan") was established for the period
1989-91, but was not formally extended when OPTT statutes were modified in 1991.
The EC included operational, developmental, and commercial objectives and indicators
consistent with the IDA SAR and the Credit and Project Agreements. It also outlined
organizational, financial and fiscal measures to enable the production and efficiency
targets to be met. Many of the organizational improvements and measures to meet the



4
operational targets of the action plan agreed upon during project evaluation and
reflected in the EC were implemented, such as with regard to project planning,
execution and management, operational efficiency (staff per 1000 lines in service),
financial management (accounting procedures and their computerization), billing and
collection, personnel and human resource management (staff statute, compensation
services and training). -Some of the actions, however, were not as thoroughly realized as
was expected, in particular with regard to computerization of common services
(buildings and stock management procedures), technical management of the subscribers,
management of postal services, managerial separation of postal and telecoms activities,
and suitable management information systems.  Some of these shortcomings are
expected to be remedied by end 1996 when all the installations and computer facilities
required will be operational and the related staff training completed.
11.      In 1994, an institutional restructuring study was carried out to initiate the
complete separation of the postal and telecoms activities into two distinct commercial
entities, to establish a regulatory framework, and to promote competition and private
sector participation. GOT and OPTT shared the approach of an in-depth sector reform
as proposed in the study and are currently discussing implementation of the policy.
Further steps in this field could be supported by IDA through its efforts and operations
for assisting Public Enterprises in Togo.
12.      The above indicates that most of institutional development objectives of the
project were achieved. Improvement of some of the shortcomings is already underway
and the pursuit of the sector reform which is now being considered should enable OPTT
to resolve the organizational weaknesses which remain.
Network Expansion and Improvement of the Quality of Service
13.      Priority Investment Program. The main components of the project's priority
investment program were successfully completed in 1992 with less than six months'
delay from the SAR schedule, inspite of an initial start-up delay of about 15 months.
The project concept and scope were adapted during implementation, in particular
concerning switching equipment. The initial plan to expand installed capacity by
12,000 exchange lines was increased to 23,000 digital exchange lines, including the
replacement of 11,000 lines of old existing equipments in the exchanges in the Lome
and Kara regions. This was possible due to the rapid technological evolution at time of
procurement, when digital technology became largely applied worldwide and equipment
prices were rapidly decreasing under international competition. The changes and
additions took place within the budget. The retirement of obsolete equipment resulted
in great technical and cost benefits for OPTT's maintenance works, the parts and
replacement units for the former electro-mechanical exchanges becoming difficult and
costly to acquire. The Lome-Kara digital microwave link, for telephone and TV
transmission, was also completed in 1992, adding an 100 km spur to the north of the
country. The local networks were adapted to digital operation and delivered with



5
enlarged capacities by mid-1994, including maintenance and testing facilities. Also,
rural transmission systems were installed in 23 areas, compared to 15 planned. All this
took place with limited delay compared to schedule, considering the political
disturbances which impeded most of the country's activities in 1992-93, and will be
fully operational by end 1995.
14.      Operational Growth of the Network  The primary objectives of expansion
and modernization of the network, were fully met at credit closing (mid-1995) and even
somewhat exceeded due to the extensive digitalization of the newly equipped regions.
The planned capacities of 25,000 installed exchange lines and 22,500 connected lines
will be met by end 1995 and in 1996, respectively (Part II, Tables 5 and 6). The lirnited
delay in completing the project results from the additional works and installations
required for complete digitalization of the local exchange systems in the Lome and Kara
regions. Also some additional local inter-exchange, trunk and rural transmission
facilities were implemented and are being put into operation in 1996.
15.      Objectives of Service Quality and Staff Productivity.  The expansion
included a complete renovation of the switching facilities and the construction of new
and restructured existing outside plant networks. As a result, the average yearly fault
rate has been divided by about three and the percentage of rapid fault repair (within 2
days) increased by about 50 percent. The technical local and long distance call
completion rates also greatly improved by 60 percent and 100 percent, respectively.
This is expected to further exceed SAR targets when all new modem installations and
maintenance facilities are in service in 1996. Staff productivity greatly improved under
the project, the number of staff per 1,000 lines in service decreasing from 66 in 1989 to
50 in 1994. The SAR target of 40 will be met after introduction of the computerized
operation and maintenance procedure, now underway throughout the networks (Part II,
Tables 5 and 6).
16.      Project Costs. The cost of the project was estimated to be US$44.6 million
at appraisal, with IDA contributing US$16.0 million (see Part II, Tables 8A and 8B).
The actual cost is US$46.1 million, with IDA contribution of US$16.0 million. The
limited project cost increase for much larger and technologically productive network
facilities than planned is the result of international competition under Bank procurement
guidelines which were used for all goods and services under the project. The estimated
average cost per additional line is about US$3,000. It takes account of and results from
the lesser cost of local networks for the subscribers where only switching installations
were replaced. This compares to worldwide averages of US$1,000 to US$2,000 and is
not excessive given the small size of the market for a relatively extended network
design, the high proportion of spare parts, replacement works for the modernized
installations, and the needed technical assistance and training.
17.      Disbursements and Project Financing. The procurement process started
early and was on schedule throughout the project, due to continued close cooperation
between IDA, OPTT and the effective support of technical assistance. No particular



6
difficulties or delays were encountered in the disbursement against applications for
withdrawals and usage of the special account by OPTT. An undisbursed balance of SDR
1.1 million (USS1.6 million) was cancelled at credit closing, inspite of the agreed
extension by 6 months of its date to June 30, 1995. The deliveries under a contract of
wooden poles to convert new suburban lines were delayed and OPTT will have to
secure financing for these supplies. Cumulative estimated and actual disbursements, for
each fiscal year, are shown in Part II, Table 4. Project financing is detailed, as
estimated at appraisal and actual in Part II, Table 8B. Financing was provided as
initially estimated. AfDB's contribution for switching installations was slightly delayed
at the start-up of the project but was increased to enable thorough and consistent
realization of the digitalized network, including replacement of existing installations
(para.13). OPTT's and AfDB's contributions were both increased to enable project
enlargement, as well as best benefiting from the prevalent technical and economic
conditions under the international tendering process at time of procurement.
Improvement of Financial Performance
18.      Management of OP7T.  Improving OPTT's financial management and
performance was a key objective of the credit and was included in the three-year
1989/91 enterprise contract.  The Credit Agreement provided for technical assistance
in the areas of auditing, accounting (including financial projections), budgeting and cash
management, billing and collection, inventory and subscribers' management (including
computerization), planning, and tariffs, for both telecommunications and postal
services. The main targets and achievements in these areas were covenanted in the
Project Agreement. The political, economic and social disturbances of 1992 and 1993
caused delays in the compliance with covenants, which is detailed in Table 10, Part II.
19.     Accounting system and Audits. Modifications of the accounting system were
successfully designed and implemented by local consultants, financed by OPTT.
However, computerization of the accounting system has been brought about piecemeal.
Therefore, a general audit will be required when the system is fully computerized and
looped on. Auxiliary accounts for personnel, fixed assets, suppliers and inventory
management have been linked to general accounting around mid-1995, but cash and
investment management will not be ready before the beginning of 1996.
Computerization of the postal services could only be achieved at the end of 1996. The
computerized link of auxiliary subscribers' accounts to general accounting will only be
possible after revision of past accounts which is expected to be ready around mid-1996.
The consultants will prepare, at the same time, a manual of accounting procedures.
Production of monthly accounts has been delayed by political instability in the country,
but could be implemented in the first half of 1996. Audits of the OPTT accounts, as
available before separation of Posts and Telecoms' accounts, have been performed for
each year since 1989 under own financing, by auditors of international standing, and
submitted with only a few months delay. If the past improvements in the accounting
system are followed up, the 1995 accounts could be certified in due course.



7
20.      Subscribers' accounts. The time lag between the consumption reading and
the issue of bills in subscribers' postal boxes has been brought back to a little less than
two months. However, the billing process was deeply disturbed by the long strikes, in
1992 and 1993. The result is a high level of subscribers' accounts receivable at around
nine months of billing (excluding the above two months). The recovery rate of private
bills was very low, 31 percent for the 1992 revenues and about 50 percent for the 1993
revenues. OPTT is presently adopting a lenient policy towards subscribers with arrears,
who may, in the past, have received several bills at the same time. The return to normal
operation of an increased number of working lines up to about 20,000 DELs in 1994,
enabled OPTT to return to regular operational standards.
21.      On the administration's side (Government and local municipalities), the
situation is very bad: government departments owe CFA franc 11 billion to OPTT, i.e.,
the equivalent of their whole consumption between 1988 and 1994, representing about
two thirds of OPTT's operating revenues in 1994. Moreover, the Government has
drawn advances from OPTT for more than CFA franc 9 billion, against which OPTT
has only a backlog of CFA franc 2 billion of taxes and CFA franc 1 billion of dividends,
for compensation. The Government should negotiate on the basis of OPTT's service of
its CFA franc 20 billion investment debt (principal and interest, in old CFA francs). If
OPTT cannot suspend administrations' lines, it should at least limit access to the
internal and international networks - and if the Government is unable to budget properly
its telecommunications consumption, privatization of OPTT would be a solution to
secure its future investment financing.
22.      Taxes and dividends. Under its Enterprise Contract, in consideration of the
large investments required under its 1989-92 development program, OPTT had a
preferential fiscal statute. In particular, it was exonerated from the corporate tax,
various production taxes and customs duties, and the taxes on staff compensation were
reduced. Total taxes dues to GOT for 1994, at the project completion year amounted to
about CFA franc 0.6 billion or less than 3 percent of the CFA franc 16 billion revenues
from telecommunications. The EC did not refer to any settlement procedure of tax dues
against GOT's dues for usage of service. The relation between OPTT and GOT on this
requires clarification in future.
23.      Tariffs. Consultants proposed a new tariff structure, after the CFA franc
devaluation of January 1994, recommending reduction of geographic zones, pulse and
time of the day tariff for local communications, but it has not yet been applied.
24.      Financial situation. The rate of return and self financing covenants were
difficult to monitor in the present difficult period for Togo, due to the political events of
1992 and 1993 and the devaluation of 1994. The rate of return on revalued assets was
less than the required rate of 15 percent in every year except 1994, when it increased
sharply to 37 percent largely due to a reduction in the provision for bad debts from



8
previous years. The effect of the devaluation of the CFA franc is unclear as it has not
yet been decided who will bear the foreign exchange loss, OPTT or the Government.
25.      Budgets. Budget preparation and control is presently broken down into three
accountable centers. A more efficient budget management would require a much
greater number of centers, with a cost accounting basis. It is not expected to be ready
before mid-1996.
26.      Postal services have been neglected for several years. However, efficient
service could be achieved if a reform plan was discussed and implemented, including
measures concerning staff redeployment and institutional improvement with own
financial services.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not generally subject to Government Control
27.      Technological progress. Important factors that positively affected project
implementation, its overall cost and the prospects for satisfactory future operation were:
(a) the rapid technological development internationally of digital telecommunication
equipment systems; and (b) the falling costs of such equipment. This enabled OPTT to
revise the scope of the project, in consultation with IDA, to allow for greater network
expansion within the overall project cost budget and to provide more reliable services
with a system requiring less maintenance. This had a positive impact on quality of
service and staff productivity, and will ensure more efficient future operations.
28.      Political Events in 1992-93.  Togo experienced grave political instability
and civil disturbances in 1992-93. OPTT, however, was able to maintain its operations
and a reasonable administration of its services with minimal damages to the facilities
and only about a year's delay in completing the ongoing investment works under the
project. Commercial and financial operation suffered from the events, the billing and
collection from the users being most affected. From 1994, OPTT improved its
performance in billing, collection and profitability.
29.      Devaluation. The effect of the devaluation of the CFA franc is unclear as it
has not yet been decided who will bear the foreign exchange loss, OPTT or the
Government.



9
Factors Generally Subject to Government and OPTT Control
30.      The statutes of OPTT, the public telecommunications operator in Togo, were
modified in 1991 to establish the entity as a "State Company". This was a step toward
more commercial operation of the enterprise. Also a new statute of personnel was made
effective enabling the recruitment and training of the required specialists for more
commercially  oriented  operations.   However, the separation  of postal and
telecommunications operations did not take place. The Enterprise Contract (a
performance contract between the Government and OPTT) was not updated following
the statutory change or to reflect the lessons of the initial phase of OPTT operation
before becoming a State Enterprise.
31.      With regard to the development and operational improvement objectives of
the project, OPTT managed to overcome the difficulties of a very large operation, which
doubled and modernized most of its facilities. It was able to maintain overall control of
project implementation, and to benefit from the technical assistance and training it
included.
32.      The review of sector policy and restructuring options, which was financed
from OPTT's own resources, stressed the need to evolve from the current monopolistic
structure toward more competition, with greater participation by the private sector.
GOT welcomed the orientation and proposals from the study and is discussing and
preparing steps to implement its recommendations.
D. Project Sustainability
33.      The project benefits are significant. They include: (a) an increase in the
coverage and quality of all telecommunications services; (b) the transformation of
OPTT from a Government Board type agency into a more commercially oriented State
Enterprise; and (c) the increased awareness of the Government of the need for in-depth
sector restructuring, including the separation of postal and telecommunications services
and the introduction of a regulatory framework distinct from operation of the services
where the private sector would be involved in a competitive context.
34.         Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return on the Project is
26 percent (Table 9, Part II). This compares to the target rate of return of 31 percent,
when the project was appraised. While less than the target rate, this is considered to be
a satisfactory performance in the light of the difficult operating environment during the
project implementation period.



lo
35.      Most of the major physical and institutional target indicators included in the
Project Agreement, have been achieved and some of them will be exceeded at full
operation of the facilities in 1996. The project contributed, beyond its initial objectives,
and also through the modernization of the existing switching installations, to establish
a good base to sustain the efficient operation of the systems and permit their
maintenance with adequate tools and facilities, and to better serve customers. The up-
to-date electronic equipment and integrated digital networks provided under the project
have built-in centralized and computerized capabilities for efficient continued operation
and maintenance. Repairs are made promptly through replacement of defective units,
requiring less staff, causing less disruptions, reducing the wear and aging of the
installations, and making operation more effective. This is an important factor to ensure
the project's sustainability.
36.      With regard to institutional and financial sustainability, the Government is
now fully aware of the need to further restructure the sector to sustain and increase its
contributions to the country's socio-economic growth. Steps were undertaken in 1995,
with IDA's cooperation, to prepare an action plan.  Tariffs are being increased and
restructured, following the 1994 CFA franc devaluation. These steps, which IDA
should continue to assist and supervise within its support to public sector and
enterprises in the country, will ensure complete project's sustainability and success in
the longer term.
37.      The project benefits are considered to be sustainable.
E. Bank Performance
38.      Preparation, Appraisal.  The GOT first requested IDA assistance to its
public telecommunications sector in 1987. A reconnaissance mission identified the
major organizational and developmental requirements to assist OPTT, the recently
created operating entity for Posts and Telecommunications services. IDA promptly
reacted to the request for assistance and a PPF was approved in 1988. The project was
appraised at the end of 1988 and included suitable means and measures to enable OPTT
to expand its facilities and better serve demand, to improve the quality of service and
the effectiveness of its organization, financial operation, and manpower. The project
cost had been estimated at US$44.6 million, of which IDA would finance US$16.0
million; however, more installations and modem facilities were installed than initially
planed at about the same cost. Several other donors (AfDB, CFD, EIB, FAC and ITU)
and OPTT contributed to the financing of the project.
39.      Supervision. Regular supervision took place from July 1989 to May 1995,
little more than once a year on average. IDA dialogue with the borrower on institutional
and sector restructuring matters were continued following project completion in 1995.



11
The cooperation between OPTT and IDA project team was excellent and productive.
Staff continuity on both side contributed to the process.
40.      The above indicates that overall Bank/IDA  performance has been
satisfactory in this project. Adequate coordination and exchange of information were
maintained with the borrower, the beneficiary and other donors.
F. Borrower Performance
41.      OPTT was the beneficiary and GOT the borrower. With respect to the
achievement of physical objectives, OPTT's performance appears satisfactory,
particularly considering the lack of previous experience in preparing and implementing
such a large development project, and also the uncertainties and the very constraints
from the political events during implementation. Regarding the imnplementation of the
institutional component, the performance was poorer. Broader internal organizational
improvements within OPTT could have been achieved or initiated under OPTT's
modified statute as a State Enterprise, but GOT as a non-paying large customer of
telecommunications services jeopardized OPTT's financial and developmental
performance.
Compliance with Credit and Project Agreements Covenants
42.      The status of compliance with legal covenants is detailed in Part II, Table 10.
The status and the reasons for partial or non-compliance are given in the above sections,
in particular with regard to achievement of the financial objectives concerning: (i) the
late collection of dues from users accounts; (ii) the non-budgeting and continued non-
payment of their consumption of telecommunications services by GOT and the local
municipalities (CFA franc 11 billion since the start of the project remain due); (iii)
OPTT's rate of return was only 5 percent in 1993 (after being negative in several
previous years) but recovered up to 25 percent in 1994 after the civil disturbances; and
(iv) data for definite calculation or forecasts are not available following the 1994
devaluation of the CFA franc, but the estimates economic rate of return of the project
over the lifetime of the installations is about 20 percent based on the 1994 operational
and financial results. This is expected to be maintained when the tariffs and financial
adjustments from the CFAF devaluation materialize, as expected, in 1996 (Table 9, Part
II).
G. Assessment of Outcome
43.      The overall assessment of the project's outcome is satisfactory. The project
realized and will exceed some of its physical and operational objectives and achieved
other organizational improvements and strengthening. With the help of the institutional



12
studies from the project, GOT and OPTT have now a good understanding of the
shortcomings regarding the further implementation of suitable institutional
developments and of the required in-depth restructuring of the sector.
H. Future Operation
44.      The operational objectives of the project for future operation of the provided
infrastructure are presented in Part II, Table 6. The full utilization of the switching and
transmission digitalized infrastructure installed under the project is expected to be
achieved in 1996. Some additional investments will be required for the exchange and
local cable networks. Assuming that appropriate tariff and financial restructuring are
implemented following the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc, OPTT should have the
capacity to finance these components, which will be less costly on a per new line basis
where the existing core facilities of the new systems from the project will be used. The
Government has, on its own initiative, commenced a process of sector reform with
support from IDA which is designed to allow the sector to better meet demand for
increased and better quality service.
I. Key Lessons Learned
45.      The telecommunications industry is one which is experiencing fundamental
and rapid structural change and accelerating demand for service. To meet Togo's
telecommunications needs, and the central role which communications and information
will play in achieving the country's development objectives, the Government will need
to continue and extend, with the participation of all stakeholders, the process of sector
reform which it has recently commenced with a view to opening up participation in the
sector to new service providers and creating opportunities which are attractive for
private investors.
46.      The project confirms the difficulty in achieving development objectives in
the absence of a facilitating environment. The unstable political and civil situation in
the country during 1991 to 1993, the absence of a commercial arms-length relationship
between OPTT and the Government and the failure to implement some of the key
institutional development components all contributed to the difficulties faced by OPTT.
Nevertheless, OPTT's relatively good performance during the same period when
compared to other utilities in the country is a testament to the resilience of the
telecommunications sector.



13
47.      The project benefitted from new technologies and falling costs during the
implementation period.
48.      Those areas of the project which were successfully implemented were
facilitated by the continuity and good working relationships between staff in both OPTT
and IDA during the implementation period.



14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:        Summary of Assessment
Table 2:        Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:        Project Timetable
Table 4:        Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:        Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:        Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:        Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:       Project Costs
Table 8B:       Project Financing
Table 9:        Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:       Bank Resources: Missions



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         SubstanMW          Partial         Negligible       blot LwIi&Ie
Macro policies                       a                o                o
Sector policies                      E                O                 al
Financial objectives                 El                                  l a              o
Instimtional development             a
Physical objectives                                   Q 0                                 Q
Poverty reduction                    a                E                 a         
Gender issues                        a                o                 az
Other social objectives               a               o                El
EnvirommentaL objectives             n                n
Public sector management             a                                 El
Private sector development           a                E                El
Other (specify)                      n                E                El
Likekx                          Un~Unlikely
B. Pmject sustainaw                                      E                 Ez



16
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
Hwhlv
C. Bank performance                     satisfactory           Satisfact                   Deficien
Identification                                                                            E]
Preparation assistance                                         El
Appraisal                                                       g                         z
Supervision                                                     a 
D. Borrower perforrnance             satisfactory             Satisfactor                 Deficient
Preparation                         z                        El
Implementation                       o                                                   o
Covenant compliance                                          z
Operation (if applicable)
Highl                                              kiLIX
E. Assessment of outcome               stisfa        Saisfactory     Unsatisfactorv     untisac
El                                El                C



17
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit 2056-TO was the first Bank Group lending operation for Telecommunications in Togo.
There are no previous or other current lending IDA operations in the teleconumunications
sector.



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summay)                  April 15, 1988
Preparation                                                Sept. 27-Oct. 7, 1988
Appraisal                                                  Dec. 14-24, 1988
Negotiations                                               May 10-13, 1989
Board presentation/approval                                June 29, 1989
Signing                                                    July 18, 1989
Effectiveness                            October 17, 1989   July 12, 1990 a!
Project completion                       June 30, 1994     June 30, 1995 b/
Credit closing                           Dec. 31, 1994     June 30, 1995 b/
a/ Two extensions of the initial effectiveness date were required to enable fulfillment
of the Credit Agreement's conditions with regard to: (i) signature of two major
construction contracts under the project; and (ii) conclusion of a
performance/program contract between OPTT and GOT.
b/ Extension of the closing date from initial December 31, 1994 to June 30, 1995
was agreed to enable completion of procurement and final disbursements under a
signed contract under the project.



19
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY (ending      FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95
June 30)
Appraisal estimate   2.60     8.20     11.90      14.90      15.70   (17.6) al
Actual             0.00       4.47     10.13      14.35      14.35    15.90 b/
Actual as % of
estimate         0%        54%       85%       96%        91%      90% b/
Date of final disbursement: July 31,1995
a/   Adjusted US$ equivalent amount of the SDR 12.4 million credit, at the rate of
US $1.42 per SDR as at the end of June 1995.
b/   An undisbursed arnount of SDR 1.1 million (US$1.5 million equivalent) was
cancelled in October 1995 at the closing of the credit.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1989                1990                  1991                 1992                 1993                 1994
Annual targets or               SAR       Acual      SAR      Actual       SAR      ACtual     SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR         Actual
values at December 31           Target              Target                Target               Target               Target             Target    (Oct 94)
1 Technkdal Performance
(a) Teephone exdhangc
instaled capacity (lines)   10,687     10,324    10,687    12,193     19,000     12,193     22,900     23,500    23,000    23,500    23,000     23,630
(b) Main telephone lines connec-
ted (DELs, auto and manual)  9,800      9,869    10,000    10,516     13,000     10,730     16,000     15,337    19,200    17,200    22,500     19,803
(c) Telex exchange capacity (lines)   1,449  1,449    1,449     1,449      1,449      1,449      1,449     1,449      1,440     1,449     1,449      1,449
(d) Telex subscribers connected (lines)  550  433      650       405        720        407        800        393       880       348       960        330
(e) Maintenance targets
(i) Faults reponted per annum
perl00maintel.Iines          90         so        80        70         70         60         50        45         40         40        35        30
(ii) Perent of faults:
- cleared within 48 hours       70         60        75        70         80         75         85        80         90        70        90         98
- clearedwithin 8days           98         80        98        85         99         90         99        95         99         98        99        99
(f) Average call completion percentage
(during husy hour)
(i) Localcalls                  60         50        60        55         65        60         70        70         75         70         80        70
(ii) Longdistancecalls(STD)     38         30         40        35        45         40         50        60         60         60        70         60
(iii) International calls
- outgoing                   56         45        58        50        50         45         55        50         60         42         70        47
- incoming                   38         35        40        40        50         45         55        50         60         42         70        47
11. Manpower
Staff per 1,000 DELs in service
(year end)                        68        66         65       62         55        67        50          55        45         55         40        52
-0



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (cont'd)
1989                1990                 1991                 1992                 1993                1994
Annual targets or                  SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual     SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR          Actual
values at December31              Target               Target               Target              Target               Target              Target   (Oct 94)
IIL Finandal Performance
(a) Nctintcrmnlcashgenerationas     120       146         60        38         50       94        70         63         80   1   -587       110        304
% of constuction 
(b) Raueofrcttun(%)                  29         8         26        10         21        3         19        -7         15         3         15         37
(c) Debt/dcbtandequity(%)            25        41         31        13        40         22       45         28         47         31        48         45
(d) Cunentritio                      1.8      0.95        1.8      1.14       1.8       1.22       1.8       1.1        1.8      1.67        1.7       1.69
(e) Private accounts receivables
(%ofbillingtoprivaesector)        30        11        28         12        25        13         22        41         20        88        I8
(f) Govenamenteceountsreceivable      50        77        30        95        30        100        95         98        20         99        18         100
(% of billing to Govenmnent)
(g) Operating revenauDEL
(CFAF)                        689       739       703       690        661       804       608        617       576        660      568          600
(h) Operating Cost/DEL (CFAF)        619       587       634        570       594       791        524       507        4U         530      465        580
IV. PrngramProl
(a) Construction Expenditures a/
(CFAF million) of which:       1,230     2,473      3,550     4,745     4,740    7,505      4,780      3,669      4,300      2,500     4,000       2,500
- L Prject                      800       600      3,200      2,500    4,500     3,500      4,100     3,100        800        850     4,000       1,050
(b) Loan disbursements
(CFAFmillion)                 155       000     1,393        682     1,748       893       1,126    1,677       373         461       000        855
e/  Data presented are ICR estimates, no separate accounting tables being kept for OM'IT's Teleommunications branch or project accounL
21



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Annual Targets at December 31               1995         1996          1997           1998            1999          2000
(OPIT and ICR Estimates)
1. Technical Performance
(a) Telephone exchange capacity (lines)  25,344        26,514        26,514         28,686          28,686        28,686
(b) Main telephone lines connected
DELs, auto and manual)               20,913        22,080        23,019         23,889          24,799        25,706
(c) Telex exchange capacity (lines)        1,449         1,449        1,449           1,449          1,449         1,449
(d) Telex subscribers connected (lines)     330           330           330            33b            330           330
(e) Maintenance targets
(i ) faults reported per annum            30            25           25             20              20            20
per 100 main telephone lines
(ii) percent of faults:
- cleared within 48 hours              95            96           98             99              99            99
- cleared within 8 days                99          99.5         99.8           99.8            99.8           99.8
(f) Average call completion percentage
(during busy hour)
(i) local calls                           70          70            70             70             70             70
(ii) long distance calls (STD)            60           60            60            60              60             60
(iii) international calls
- outgoing                             40           40            40            40              40             40
- incoming                             40           40            40             40             40             40
II. Manpower
Staff per 1,000 DELs in service
(year end)                               50           45           45              43             40            40
22



23
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined            Status         Impact of study
I. IDAFind
Technic
1. Project Supervision  To assist and train OPTr to      Completed      Enabled satisfactory and
coordinate project implementation,   1989-Dec.  timely project implementa-
including detailed planning, procure-  1990    tion, including evolution of
ment process, construction, accep-              planning on basis of
tance and start-up of operation for             tendering results and
all project components and systems.            trauiing of OPTTs staff in
Ocrational/firiancial                                                    all related fields.
Operational/maintenance
2. Structure of         To inprove operational efficiency  Completed     predures were
maintenance             and update support procedures.    1991           reorganized but
procurement of supporting
system was delayed due to
socio/political turmoiL
3. Demand and tariff    To support development planning  Completed       Demand study was used in
study                   and ensure acceptable future      1992           planning. Tariff structure
financial performance                          reform was delayed and
partially initiated in 1994
only, following CFAF
devalua.ion.
23



24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (continued)
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined             Status          Impact of study
II. OPr Financed
Management
4. Buildings and stores  To improve and update OPTT's       Completed      Partially implemented due
management               management and institutions.      1991            to delay in processing the
5. Computerization of                                      Completed       n       informatics system
subscriber management                                       1992
6. Telecoms sector                                         Completed       Being curTendy discussed
restructuring                                               1993           with Bank and other
7. Management of postal                                    Deferred
operations
8. Coordination of                                                         Partially inplemented.
computerization                                            Completed       Will have to be adjusted
when Posts and Telecom
services are separated.
m. CFD3/FAC. lTU
Tecnical
9. Telecommunications    To provide a framework to network   Completed/    Was used in project
Master Plan (ITU)        development and improved          updated 1990    planning and
operation.                                       implementation
Mana2ernent and
Thaken into account in
10. Human resources      To create adequate HR organization   Completed    OPTTs personnel statute
and management.                   1991
11. Computerization of                                                     Paia1y implemented
accounting and staff     To improve/update OPTT's financial  Completed     (delay in informatics
management               management procedures             1992            facilities and little progress
in separating Posts and
Telecoms and common
services)
12. Financial            To introduce commercial type      Completed       Partially implemented.
management               operation and management.         1991
24



25
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate a/       Actual/Latest Estimate c/
Item              (CFAF Bn)    (IUS$MD b/        (CFAF Bn) b/ (US$M) b/
1. Local Network                5.65         18.18            5.10        18.80
2. Switching Centers            3.35          11.1      .     3.50        12.80
3. Transmission d/              1.40          4.7             1.40        4.90
4. Rural Telephony d/           0.80          2.6             0.80        2.90
5. Maintenance/rehabilitation
tools, spares d/             0.50           1.7             0.50        1.80
6. Institutional Development/
Training                     1.70          5.7             1.30        4.90
TOTAL                          13.4          44.6            12.60      46.10
a/  Includes contingencies.
b/   The US$/CFAF exchange rate used are 1/300 at appraisal and 1/273 at completion, the
latter rate being the average exchange rate dpring the 1990-1993 period during which
most project expenditures were made.  Only small amounts of project-related
expenditures took place after the 1994 CFAF devaluation and these were included in the
actual cost estimates.
c/   OPTT did not employ specific project accounting system. Data on the cost of major
component items were provided in the progress reports prepared by consultants. Some
updating was carried out to prepare the final estimates.
d/   Where information on actual cost was not available, appraisal estimates have been
used.



26
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate a/
Item                             US $M            US $M      (% of Total)
1. IDA                                     16.0              15.9        (34.5)
2. CFD and FAC                             0.9        .       1.0        (2.2)
3. AfDB                                    4.0               6.7         (14.5)
4. EIB                                     10.4              10.4        (22.6)
5. CIDA b/                                 2.3               0.0         (0.0)
6. OPTT                                    10.9              12.0        (26.0)
7. UNDP                                    0.1               0.1         (0.2)
TOTAL                                   44.6              46.1       (100%)
a/  OPTT did not keep a specific project accounting system. Data on the financing of major
component items were provided in the progress reports prepared by consultants. Some
updating was carried out when preparing the latest ICR estimate.
b/ CIDA did not finance or co-finance any sub-component.



27
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Year        CFAF           CFAF           CFAF           CFAF       Corrected   US Dollar      MUV
Million       Million        Million        Million     Exchange       Net        index
Rate       Benefit
Total     Incremental    Incremental         Net
Capital      Operating      Operating       Benefit
Costs         Costs         Revenues
(a)          (b)             (C)           (d)          (e)          (f)         (g)
1989        600          0 198           0 238         -0 560       359.8    -1,555,518          100.0
1990       2500          0 484           0 794         -2 190       329.7    -7,087,799         106.7
1991       3500         0581             0904          -3 177      336.0   -10,313,989          109.1
1992       3100         2 513            3 359         -2 254      333.5    -7,688,448          113.8
1993        850          3 585           6 100          1 665      350.3      5,394,360         113.5
1994       1050         4822             8547          2675        491.4      6,402,231         117.6
1995       1000         6 046           10 717         3 671       499.1      9,035,878         122.8
1996                     6 046          10 717         4 671       499.1    11,492,261          122.8
1997                     6 046          10 717         4 671       499.1    11,492,261          122.8
1998                     6046           10717          4671        499.1    11,492,261          122.8
1999                    6046            10717          4671        499.1    11,492,261          122.8
2000                     6 046           10 717        4 671        499.1    11,492,261          122.8
2001                     6 046           10 717        4 671        499.1    11,492,261          122.8
2002                     6046            10717         4671         499.1    11,492,261          122.8
2003                     6 046           10 717        4 671        499.1    11,492,261          122.8
2004                     6 046           10 717        4 671        499.1    11,492,261          122.8
2005                     6046            10717         4671         499.1    11,492,261          122.8
2006                     6 046           10 717        4 671        499.1    11,492,261          122.8
2007                     6 046           10 717        4 671        499.1    11,492,261          122.8
2008                     6 046           10 717        4 671        499.1    11,492,261          122.8
2009                     6 046           10 717        4 671        499.1    11,492,261          122.8
Internal Economic Rate of Return (ERR!: 25. 45 Percent
Notes
(a) Total capital costs: at current prices
(b) Incremental operating costs of the project at current prices (1995 figures have been assumed for year 1996 to 2009)
(c) Incremental operating revenues of the project at current prices (1995 figures have been assumed for year 1996 to 2009)
(d) = (c) - (a) - (b)
(e) CFAF: USS exchange rate, adjusted for overvaluation factor
(f) Net Benefit at constant prices 1989: (d) x (e) x (g)
(g) MUV Index used for discounting to 1989 present value



28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-  Section   Covenant   Present Original       Revised           Description of                     Comments
ment               typ       sta                                        covenant
type   al ~fulfillment      date
Credi   4.01     Monitoring     CP                            Review each year performance    A performance contract was
achieved under performance     established for 1989-1991 but was
contract                        not renewed after OPM!' was changed
into a State Company.
4.02    Sector         CD    July 31, 1990           Revise OPTs statutes            Changed in 1991 to establish a State
Policy                                                                      Conpany.
4.03    Financial      CD    Dec.31, 1992            Canyouttari study and           Revised in1994 afterthedevaluation
of CFAF
implement recommendations.
3.06    Financial      NC    Dec. 1991               Outstanding customers' accounts
receivable should not exceed 100    9 months for private customers in 1994.
days of billing.
Audit reports should be available
4.01(b)  Accounts/     CD                            within 6 montbs
Audits
4.01(c)  Accounts/      C                            Separate opuiion concernng
Audits                                      staments of expenditure from
Credit account
4.02    Financial      CD                            Prparaion of annual operating and
4.02  Financial  CD                    ~~~~~~capital expenditur budgets.
OPTr should prepare a 3-year
4.03(a)  Financial     CD                            rolling investment program and
review it with IDA each year.
4.03(b)  Financial     C                             No new inveesment of more than
CFAF 313 million without prior
consultation with IDA.
Rate of return was less than covenant
4.04    Financial      NC    Dec. 31, 1989           Annua rate of return of not less
than 15%.                      requiemntineveryyearexcept 1994
4.05                   CD    Dec.31, 1989            Intemd sources to finance not
less than 35% of capital
expenditure.
a/ Present status:
C - covenant complied with
CD 8 complied with after delay
CP - complied wit partially
NC  not complied with



29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements
(OP/BP) was observed under the project. Provisional nsatisfactory practices, in particular when
establishing the procurement process, were adequately adjusted or corrected during supervision.



30
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of              Planned          Actual v
project cycle
Weeks   US$ w   Weeks   US$ E
Through appraisal       25     66,750      35 d    93,450
Appraisal-Board         30     80,100      30      80,100
Board-effectiveness     10     26,700      10      26,700
Supervision             60     160,200     70 it   186,900
Completion              15     40,050      15      40,050
TOTAL                 140    373,800      160    427,200
Data shown are actual at project completion at the end of October 1995, on the basis of
available project supervision Form 590.
At current FY95 staff week cost of $2,670.
Some additional reconnaissance/identificationlcoordination with other donors'
activities were needed, pending sector restructuring into an independent
entity (OPTT).
Discussions and works on further sector reform and assistance in the process were
continued after project completion, in liaison with the proposed Economic
Recovery and Adjustment Credit (ERAC).



Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Stage of Project    Month/  Number of   Days in   Specialized        Performance   Rating                 Types of Problems
Cycle               Year    Persons        Field      Staff Skills  Implementation/ Development
Represented a/ Overall Status   Impact b/
Througb Appraisal
Reconnaissance       Oct-86       1         3         Lof.               -              -      Donors' Conference (Paris)
Need for sector restructuring
- Sector Review        Feb-87       2        5       Eng., Fin.A          -              -       OPTT was established in
January 1987.
- Identification/
Preparation I       Mar-88       2         6      Eng., Fin.A           -              -      Need for Technical Assistance
(TA) in Management and
Development.
- Preparation 2       Aug-88        1        4          Eng.              -              -       Project Financing
- Preparation 3,                                                                                 OPTT organization and related
Pre-appraisal       Oct-88       4        10                            -              -      TA Donors' meeting to agree
on project financing.
Appraisal though
RoEd Approval
- Appraisal           Dec. 88       1        6          Eng.               -                     Project scope, size, timing and
conditions for implementation.
- Negotiations        May 10-      6          -     Lof,Eng.,Leg.,
14, 1989                      FinA.,Eco.,Mgt.
- Board Approval      June 29,     -
1989
(cont'd. next page)
31



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Stage of Project     Moaith/  Number of Days In Specialized             Implemen-    Development          Types of Probleiiis
Cycle                Year      Persons    Field    Staff Skills       tation Overall    Impact
Represenled a/        Status
Sulperv*slon/
Supervision I       Jul-89        2          4    Eng., Fin.A               I               I      To finalize inilial procurcmcnt
(project start-up)                                                                                 agreements for major supplies
and TA.
- Supervision 2      May-90         1         6    Eng.                       I              I       Progress in OPrrs organiza-
tional set-up.
- Supervision 3      May-91         2         7    Eng., Fin.A                I              I       OP'Ts financial manaigement
set-up.
- Supervision 4      Oct-91         2         7    Eng., Fin.A                I              I       Political turmoil delays improve-
rient in Accounting system
and procedures.
Supervision 5       May-92        2          8    Eng., Fin.A               I               I      OPiTs new organization now
in place.
Supervision 6       Dec-93        2          5    Eng., Fin.A               I               I       Low performance in accounting
system.
Supervision 7/      Oct-94         4         5    Eng., Fin.A (2 ea)       S c/            S c/     Need to extend closing date
Completion                                                                                         from Dec. 94 to June 30, 1995
to enable finalization ul last
items procurement.
- Supervision 8 d/   Feb-95         I         4    Eng.                       S              S       Action plan for sector refonn.
- Supervision 9 d/   May-95         1         3    Eng.                       S              S       Review of progrcss in deter-
mining sector policy aid
preparing sector rel'onn.
a/ Abbreviations: Eng. Engineer; FinA, Financial Analyst; Econ, Economist; Lof, Loan Officer; Mngt., Management Specialist.
bt Keys to: Overall performance rating (before FY94) = I problem free; 2 - moderate; 3 - major problems; -
Implementation/development impact status (from FY94 on) = HS - highly satisfactory; S - satisfactory;
U - unsatisfactory; HU - highly unsatisfactory.
c/ New project performance rating is introdIuced (revised Fonm 590, see b/ above).
d/ These were combined small missions for supervision of the project and review/discussion of further action for sectoral
reform in liaison with the Public Enterprise Restructuring Project (Cr. 201 H-TO).
32



33
APPENDIX A
Telecommunications Project Cr. 2056-TO
Aide-Memoire
(6 pages)



I



20 ocrobre 1994                                                                          Page I
Rkpubliaue du Toeo
Office des Postes er Te1lcommunicarions du Toeo (OPEM
Proiet de Telecommunications
(Credit 2056 - TO)
Mission de suivi et de pr6parntion du ranogrt d'ach6vement de mrrier
Aide-memoire
1. Une mission de l'IDA. composee de Messieurs Philippe L6charny, Jean Boutan, Svetoslav
Tintchev et Silvano Monti. a se jtoume a Lome du 17 au 21 octobre 1994, pour la derni&re mission de
suivi et de preparation du rappon d achevement du premier projet de telecommunications. La mission
remercie Monsieur le Ministre de lequipement et des postes et telecommunications. Monsieur le
Directeur Gdneral de l'OPTT et leurs cotlaborateurs, et les autres personnalites rencontrees a Lomrn, de
l'accueil qui lui a ete reserve et dc leur appui dans I'accomplissement de sa tiche.
2.  La mission a etabli un bilan de lexecution du projet sur la base du plan communique par ia
Banque dans les correspondanccs du 26 juillet et du 21 septembre 1994.
Dere de realisation des obiectifs du oroiet
3. Le projet consistaiL d-une part en un impormant programme d'investissement destint 6 aaugtmenter
ia capacilt du reseau de telecommunications (regions de Lome et Kara), d'autre part en une seric
d'actions d'assistance technique pormtn sur le renforcement de l'orgnisation et de la gestion du
secteur des postes et tilicommunications. Le montage financier-a rassembi outre l'OPTT et 1'IDA, la
BAD, BEI et CFD.
4. En cc qui concerne le proaramme d'investssement, les principales composantes ont ite mises en
service en mi- 1992, soit avec un derapage de IS mois par rapport aux objectifs initiaux du rapport
d'dvaluation. En 1993. l'Office a continue 1'effort de raccordement des nouveaux abonnes ainsi que la
refection de certains rcseaux dont la mise en service avait fait l'objet de mesures transitoires.
5. La conception du projet a tec adaptee en cours de realisation. Ie plan d'extension de 12.000 lignes
de commutation a ert porte a 23.000 lignes numiriques en incluant le remplacement des equipements
anciens. Cette modification s'est effectu6e sans dipassement de budget en raison de la forte
concurrence lors de la consultation internationale.
6.  Le rapport final dressant le bilan de la mise en cauvre du programme T'investissement et de
l'ingenierie de realisarion a ete etabli en date d'octobre 1992. Le montant des investissements
(commutation, reseaux locaux. rransmission) atteint 11 milliards de FCFA a comparer i l'estination
initiale de 10,5. La contribution do l'OPTT a ete de 25% de l'engagement.total.
7. En compliment. la composante de telephonie rurale couvrant 23 localitis ( 450 abonnes) est en
cours de rialisation er devrait etre mise en service au cours du premier trimestre de 1995. Cette
composante est rialisie sur fonds propres.
Obiectifs institutionnels
8. L'OPTT a en tansforme en societe d'Etat en l991, la societe do etlicornunicatiots
internationales (Satelit) a itn integree a I'OPTT. L'organigramme traduit la siparation des branches
postes ot telecommnunications (direction financiere et comptable. direction ressources humaines,
communes). ainsi que le renforcement et la dcentmalisation des fonctions de maintenance et
d'exploitation du rescau. Un nouveau srtut du personnel a ett etabli. En 1994, I'OPTT a fait realiser
une etude pour amorcer I'ivoludon du cadre reglementaire et preparer la sepwiaon des acdvitds postes
et tildcommunicadions.



20 octobre 1994                                                                             Page 2
9. En matiere de relations avec le Gouvememene, un conrat d'entreprise a ete etabli pour la periode
1989-1991, i n'a cependant pas ece prolongd aprcs le changement de statut (societc d'Etat) en 1991.
Obiectifs d'amtioration de la aestion
10. Certaines actions affichees dans le rapport d'6vaiuation ont dt6 entam6es. en particulier dans le
domaine de la gestion financiere L procedures comptables et informatisation. etude tarifaire), de la
facturation et du recouvrement. dc la eesuon du personnel (paye, nouveaux stanuts). Toutefois d'autres
actions n'ont pas ete realisees avec la profondeur prevue (gestion des stocks, fichier technique des
abonnes, tableau de bard. gestion de ia poste).
SitYatian pr6lente
11. La situation cconomique a tle relaEivement precaire au cours des dix mois ecoules, depuis la
derniere mission de supervision. cE la devalluation de 50% de janvier 1994 n'a pas facilite la reprise,
m6me si des signes apparaissent. La situation financiere de l'OPTT s'en ressent et les progres dans le
renforcement du systeme comptable ont et6 lents.
Svsteme comptable
12. Les modifications du systeme comptable sont ope*res a petits pas, avec cette particularite
remarquable que les interventions sont menees par des consultants locaux et sont autofinancees:
La conptabilite de la pave est informatisee depuis novembre 1992, mais la comptabilite
generale et la preparation et le suivi budgetaires ne seront vraiment operationnels qu'a la fin
de ce mois-ci. encore que la ventilation du budget soit en trois centes sculement, pour
i'exploitation, et en une cinquanmaine pour 1' investissement Le suivi du budget d'exploitarion
en cc mcme nombre de cenues suppose l' implantation d'une comptabilite analytique.
L'imnplantation et l'infofnnatisation pourraient etre realisees d'ici la fin de 1995.
Un deuxieme invenmire des immobilisations est en cours d'execution par le cabinet FICAO,
quawe ans apres celui de 1990. et sera acheve en decembre 1994. L'inforrnatisation et
l'interface avec la comptabilite generale seront disponibles en meme temps. Le meme cabinet
achevera la mise en place du cycle achats-stocks-fournisseurs en decembre 6galement. en
mfre temps que la reoreanisation des stocks sera entreprise. mais il restera a entreprendre son
infofnatisation. La mission recommande qu'ai cette occasion. dans le courant de 1995, la
gestion des projets d' investissement, qui fait partie de la meme chaine, soit aussi informatisee.
La tresorerie ne serait pas infornacisee avant le debut de 1996.
Le point le plus faible du systeme est It lien entre la comptabilite t6lephonique et la
comptabilite gintrale. Les reviseurs comptables l'ont note encore dans leur rapport de
septenbre 1994 sur les comptes de l'exercice 1993. Les soldes des comptes clients different
d'environ 2 milliards de FCFA entre les deux comptabilites. ecart qu'une mission de
fiabilisation du cabinet Afrique audit consulting (AAC) est en train d'6liminer, depuis
decembre 1993 et jusqu'en juin 1995. 11 restera i achever l'interface inforrnatique, car les
degrevements, notamment, ne .sont pas transferes d'une comptabilite i l'autre.
L'informatisation des CCP est programrnie (SOFREPOST commencera une etude a la fin de
l'annde), celle des CCM (mandats) et des CCB (bureaux) suivrait dans la foulee.
13. La mensualite des comptes, qui a ete retardee par les incertitudes politiques. devrait etre mise en
place en janvier 1995, Le cabinet AAC devrait avoir rddige un manuel de procedures administratif et
financier, en juin 1995, en synchronisation avec la fin de la mission de fiabilisation.
14. L'OPTT voudmait que les comptes do 1995 puissent etre certifies. C'est possible si les travaux se
poursuivent sans retard. mais il serait souhaitable que, lorsque 1' informatsation des comptabilites
auxiliaires sera terminie, une derniere intervention de consultants s'assurent de la coherence du
syut6ne comptable. construit par morceaux en environ quatre ans.



20 octobre 1994                                                                           Page 3
Situationfinanci&re
15. Com,Ztes clients. Le dtlai encre le releve de la consommation et la distribution des factures dans la
boite postale des clients a edt ramene a environ 50 jours, cc qui est encore un peu long. Cependant, a la
suite des longues greves des annees 1992 et 1993, le rythme de la facturation a ete perrurbe et les
paiements des abonnes n'ont pas ete reguliers. 11 en resulte que le montant des comptes des clients
prives represente environ 9 mois de facturauion (6,9 milliards de FCFA, pour un chiffre d'affaires de
9,5 milliards. aux 50 jours de delais de facruration pres). C'est un trrs long dtlai. et Cs maux de
recouvrement exposent I' etenduc du desastre, car en juillet 1994. les taux des impayes des clients
prives sont de 31% du chiffre d'affaires pour 1992 et de 50% pour 1993. Ceci explique que la politique
de 1'OPTT a 1'egard des 'retardaEaires'est d'une grande mansuerude. car il faut essayer de faire payer
des abonnes qui ont pu recevoir une dizaine de factures a la fois, et les sommes a recouvrer sont
considarables. C'est ainsi par exemple que. compte tenu de la situaion existane, I'OP'TT hesite a
resilier les abonnements pour ne pas penaliser les consommateurs. Cela sous-entend qu'il faudra
revenir a des consignes plus strictes lorsque la situation economique s'ameliorera
16. Du c6te des administrations (Etat et collectivit6s locales), la situation est franchement mauvaise.
La direction commerciale est en train de preparer un protocole d'accord sur la maniere de rdgler les
detes croisees. Sur ses consommauons de 1988 A aaoit 1994. I'Etat doit environ I I milliards de FCFA,
soit la quasi-totalit6 de la consommatuon de la periode. De plus. I'Etat a opere 9.5 milliards de FCFA
de panctions sous forrne d-'avances', porEant Ic totl de ses dettes a plus de 20 milliards de FCFA. En
contrepartie, 1'OPTT doit environ 2 milliards de FCFA d'imp6ts et 1 milliard de FCFA de dividendes.
plus 20 milliards de prnts a rembourser (10 avant la d6valuation). 11 y a matiure a nigociation, mais il
faudrait que le comportement furur de l'Etat soit clarific et qu'il s'asteigne i un minirnum de
discipline (les consommations devraient etre reduites par limitation de l'acces a l'international A
quelques postes par m inistere. et acquittes rapidement, en etablissant des r*gtes budgdtaires simples
de reglement des consomrnations), car les baillcurs de fonds pourront legitimement arguer que la scule
maniere de sortir de l'anarchie est de privatiser l'entreprise qui accumule des liquidtis, pour la
proteger, car dle a besoin de fonds pour investir.
17. Laconsommarion des lignes techniques de l'OPTT represente 936 millions de FCFA en 1993, soit
environ 7% du chiffre d'affaires.
l8. Etats financiers,. Le chiffre d-affaires des tilicommunications a augmente de 10.5% de 1991 i
1992 (de 7.875 millions a 8.308 millions de FCFA) et de 14.7% de 1992 a 1993 (de 8.308 millions a
12147 millions de FCFA). tandis que celui de la paste, qui avait chute de 32% de 1991 A 1992 (de 808
millions a 553 millions de FCFA). a continuA a diminuer. de 36% de 1992 a 1993 (de 553 miilions i
356 millions de FCFA). Sur la foi de ces montans, la situation de la poste semble avoir atteint un point
minimal. Pendant cc temps, le resultat d'exploitation des telecommunications avant imp6ts a crfi de
270%, de 1991 a 1992 (de 171 millions a 632 millions de FCFA), et encore de 160% de 1992 a 1993
(de 632 millions a 1636 millions de FCFA), bien que Ia tresorerie ne suive pas automatiquement (cf
supra). Le deficit de la poste a aussi cra, de 108% de 1991 a 1992 (de 392 millions a 814 millions de
FCFA), pour se stabiliser a ce dangereux niveau (croissance du deficit de 2,55%, de 1992 i 1993, de
814 millions a 835 millions de FCFA).
19. Le resultat d'exploiadion de l'OPIT avant impdts a ainsi ctc de -220,9 millions de FCFA en 1991,
de -182,4 millions de FCFA en 1992 et enfin de 801,5 millions de FCFA en 1993. Apres deux taux de
rentabilite negatifs par rapport aux immobilisations nettes, en 1991 et en 1992, le taux de 1993 est de
4,9/e, taux modeste mais qui contraste avec ceux qui precedaient.
20. RMvision com2table. Les rapport de revision des annecs prAcidentes ont ete remis riguli6rmelent,
souvent avec du retard. Le rapport de revision des cornptes de 1'exercice 1993 a te remiis i l'OPTT en
septembre 1994. Les reviseurs refusent encore de certifier les comptes. Les principales reserves
concernent les compres clients (cf supra) et la valorisation des stocks. Ces reserves pourront am levis
lonque les operions de flabilisation et d'informatisation dAcrites plus haut arton: etc menoes i lur
terie.



20 octobre 1994                                                                            Page 4
21. Tadi&. DETECON a propose une modification de la structure des tarifs, et il faut considdrer celle
qui a dt6 amendee apres la devaluation. pour rapprocher sa structure de schemas intemationaux:
reduction du nombre des zones tarifaires. tarification a la duree des communications locales,
introduction d'une tranche a tarification reduite le soir et la nuit, modification des abonnements.
Paste
22. La poste a ete negligee pendant de nombreuses annees. C'est tres regrettable. car sa situation pese
sur l'cconomie du pays: son deficit de 1993. trcs anormal ii est vrai, est egal en valeur absolue a la
moitie du benefice des telecommunications (-830 millions contre 1.640 millions). 11 ne serait pas
impossible que l'activite postalc soit beneficiaire dans quclques annees. si elle retrouve rapidement son
niveau de 1991 et si les quelques points suivants faisaient l'objet d'etudes et d'ameliorations dans de
brefs delais:
les tarifs n'ont pas etc modifies depuis de nombreuses annees; en suivant les propositions qui
ont etc faites il y a deja plusicurs mois, on pourrait gagner quelques centaines de millions de
FCFA, pourvu que l actvite economique reprenne un tant soit pCu;
I' amelioration des produits et une action commerciale, par exemple pourraient rcduire le delai
de distribution du courrter a Lome a 1+1 et de Lome aux prcfectures a J+3, et developper le
courrier accelere. (EMS) pour prendre des points de part de marche a DHL;
Ia diminution de la distribution du courrier a domicile, serait compense par I'augmentation du
parc de boites a louer:
Ia res,ucturation de la plupart des 5 I bureaux du Togo, pour qu'ils deviennent plus souples et
reduisent leurs couts d'exploitation;
des investissements legers, comme I'amelioration de l'exploitation du centre de tri et
l'acquisition de quelques vehicules utilitaires;
*       la rEduction du personnel excedentairc, operation trts delicate mais que, par exemple, on
pourrait peut-etre faciliter en discutant avec les caisses de retaite, pour d6terminer a quels
co&its et conditions celes pourraient faire beneficier d'une retraite pleine les employes auxquels
il manquerait quelques annees de cotisation;
*       le mpprochement avec la Caisse nationale d'6pargne, qui, par exemple, ne rtgle pas a la poste
les prestations dont eile beneficie.
23. Indicateurs de nerformance Les indicateurs de performance techniques et leurs-projections sur la
periode d'exploitation du projet ont ete fournis par I'OrTT. Les perspectives de ddveloppement
s'appuient sur l'etude d'un programme d'investissementrealisee en avril 1994. En effet. les taux
d'occupation des centraux telephoniques, principalement i Lome, sont deja proches de la saturation.
25000                              ,.       -     _  
20000,
soaa ,
1939 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1991 199? 1993 113 2000
24. Utilisatinon de& fonds du Credit IT)A. Les fonds encore disponibles (environ 1.000.000 DTS)
pourraient &tre utilise pour l'achat de poteaux destnes aux extensions de rescau dans les zones rumles
(composance telephonie rurale). Toutefois. en raison de I'dcheancier de livraison, il est imp6ratif que
I'OPTT soumette au plus tot une demande pour autoriser 1'execution et le paicment des prestatious au
deli de la date de cl6ture du cr6dit.



20 ocwobre 1994                                                                           Page 5
25. Vues de l'OPTT sur l'execution du 2rowec. La mission a indique les objectifs de cette partic du
rapport d'achevement. a savoir: (a) une opinion sur la realisation des objectifs du projet, sa conception,
sa mise en cuvre et sa realisation ainsi que sur son exploitation future; (b) une evaluation du niveau et
do la qualitc des prmstations de l'OPTT au cours de I'evolution et de la realisation proprement ditc, en
plac,ant l'accent sur les lecons pouvant erre tirees de 1'experience pour de futurs projets; et (c) une
cvaluation des presations fournies par la Banque et les autres co-financiers, y compris de la nature des
relations enre l'OPTT, la Banquc ct [s autres co-financiers. 11 a ete convenu que ce document serait
transmis a l'IDA d'ici le 3 Idecembre 1994.
26. Mesures naur une bonne ex2loitation funtre du  roiet. Le projet a permis de realiser un important
effort de formnation. au total pres de 1400 semaine-eleve, dans les domaines des reseaux locaux. do la
commutation, et de la transmission. Cet acquis devrait permettre a l'OPTT de maintenir la qualitc de
service sur les nouveaux rescaux. ln certain nombre de mesures a court ternc ont ete idencifides dans
le programme d'investissemcnt etudie en 1994, extensions ou actions de maintenance, pour maintenir
ou utiliser au mieux les infrastructures mises en place durant le projet. Ces mesures devraient etre
rmfledtes dans les budgets fiuurs



20 octobre 1994                                                                          Page? 6
ANNEXE
LISTE DES DOCUMENTS REMIS.
* Decisions 06bis et 07bis du conseil d'administration de l'oPrr rixant les regles de passation de
marche.
*   Rapport d'activite de l'exerctce 1993.
*   Rapport sur le compte special IDA au 31 ddcembre 1993 (Arthur Andersen - 3 septembre 1994).
*   Rapport sur le compte special IDA au 31 d6cembre 1992 (Arthur Andersen - 8 novembre 1993).
*   Rapport de revision des comptes au 31 decembre 1993 (Arthur Andersen - 3 septembre 1994).
*   Rapport de revision des comptes au 31 decembre 1992 (Arthur Andersen- 8 novembre 1993).
*   Rapport financier exerc?ce 1993 (OPTT - septembre 1994).
*   Rapports du commissaire aux comptes. Exercice clos le 31 decembre 1993 (Cabinet Efogerc
Audit-Togo - 16 septembre 1994).
* Etude tarifaire phase I1 (Detecon - decembre 1993).
*   Loi No 90-26 portant reforne du cadre institutionnel etjuridique des entreprises publiques.
- Organisation structurelle de la Direction de la production des telkcommunications.
* Decision 000096/OPTT/DG/DPT portant attribution et organisation des sections relevant du
Directeur de la production des telecommunications.
*   Decision 050/OPTTlDGtDPT portant modification des sections relevant du Directeur de la
production des telkcommunications et du Directeur des etudes et systemes d'information.
*   Liste des indicateurs (Tableau de bord).
*   Etude sur ie programme d-investissement (Detecon r avril 1994).
*  Contrat d'entreprise (Novembre 1989).
*   Recueil des statistiques des telecommunications (31 decembre 1993).
*   Reforne sectorielle du secteur des postes et tElecommunications (Detecon - juin 1994).
*  Separation des branches des postes et tElEcommunications (Detecon - juin 1994).
* Etude de restructuration du secteur des postes et telecommunications - Synthese (Detecon - juin
1994).



40
APPENDIX B
Telecommunications Project Cr. 2056-TO
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
(13 pages)
The Borrower sent its contribution to the Bank on June 23, 1995. The document was translated
and both versions are attached, in French (7 pages) as submitted, and the English translation (6 pages).



Office des Poste et
Tdl6communicatlons du Togo
(OP TT)
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DE L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
0.1.  La Gouvernemrent de la Republique Togolaise a obtenu de l'IDA un cr6di: de
12,4 mitlions de OTS pour le financement de son projet de teldcommunications. LICIA a
effectue 1'6valuation du projet de 18 au 23 d6cembre 1989, les negociaions du 09 au
13 mai 1989, Iapprobation le 29 juin 1989, la signature le 18 juillet 1989. La miss an
viguour du credit a eu lieu le 16 juillet 1990 soit un peu plus de dix huit (18) mois apris
I'dvaIuation du projet. La'date de ctoture a etd proroage au 30 juin 1995 au lieu du
31 dCcembre 1994 initiaiement pr6vue.
0.2.  Le rapport que voici tend k etablir, sur la base d'elements objectifs lids au premier
projet de telecommunications finance par l'IDA, les principaies legons i trer du cycli de
projet- Les elements autour desquels le present document est articule concernent les
thimes suivants: la conception du projet. la preparation du projet. 1'ex4cution du projet
(la performance de 1'emprunteur, la performance de ia Banque Mondiale et les relations
entre 1'emprunteur et les baileurs de fonds) et 1'exploitaton du nouveau reseau.
I - CQNCFE=T10N.
11.1.  Les facteurs essentlels ayant fayorise  la conception du projet de
t6l6communications sont ddcrits ci-apr6s:
- la volonte des autorites togolaises de mettre en oeuvre les orientations d6flnies
dans le plan directeur des telecommunications dont l'6)aboration a b6nWficI6 d'un appui
du PNUO au titre de la politique globale du Gouvernement pour la periode 1985 - 1990.
Pour Il4aboration de ce plan, l agence d'ex6cution retenue a 4t4 l'UiT;
- la disponibilit4 des partenaires au d6veloppement A soutenir les efforts ongag6s
par le Gouvernement en vue de moderniser les telecommunications.
1.2.  Pour les responsables des telecommunications, il s'agissait de trouver des
r6ponse urgentes aux preoccupations ci-dessous:



- satistaire la demande en instance qui so chiffrait L 7.768 (sur une demande
totale de 1 6.223) en 1984 dont une part importante provenait des clients potentiels
professionnels;
- moderniser le r6seau tdl6phonique national qui prdsentait de sAtieuses
faiblesses au niveau du rtseau de cibles, de la commutaton et de la transmission:
- am6liorer la capacitd de gestion du secteur par une utilisation adequate de l'outil
informratique.
1.3. Los preoccupations precitees Gmt etX expcs6es aux services techniques du
Ministo.re du F Ian pour dtre intO.gries dans le cadre macro-Aoonomique global et dans le
plan de developpement sectonel qui ant fait l'objet d'une prAsentation i la confdrence
des bailleurs de fonds de 1986 et A la rAunion du sous-secteur en 1988.
1.4. Les options fondamentaies du projet ant pris appui sur les grands axes de la
strat6gie de dAveloppement dAfinie dans le plan directeur. Cec a permis de mieux cibler
les objectifs de d4part.
1.5. La structure et la complexite du projet ont ete bion mattrisAes dans I'nsemnble du
fait quo les choix de dApart ant dt6 arrAtAs avec les diff6rents acteurs et correctement
assimilAs par cos derniers.
11 - PREPARATION DU PROJET
2.1. A la preparation du prolet. IOPTT qui est l'organe d'exAcution pour le compto du
Gouvernement a eu A fouer un r6Ie de premier plan dans les domaines ci-aprts
- mise en place d'uns Aquipe de projet charge de I'organisation et du suivi des
travaux. Cette equipe est campos6e d'ingenieurs et technicdens des tAlAcommunicaions
tr6s motivAs:
- actualisation des orientations du 'plan directeur en vue d'une d6finition des
objectifs du projet;
- s6loction des inginieurs.conseils pour assister Vequipe de projet danm des
domaines oui tOPTT ne dispose pas des personnes ressources requises
- 2-



- definir des mesures d'accompagnement dans la perspective d'optimiser
1'exptoitation qui sera faite du projet.
2.2.   Les actions menees pour la projet ont ete realisees en equipe avec l1s
compdtences des ingdnieurs-conseils. L'esprit d'dquipe qui a anim@ les diff4rentes
parties interessees au projet a joue en faveur des ctnoix op4r6s. Ces derniers ont ete les
resuitats d'un dchange de vues entre les cadres nationaux et 6trangers
(ingenieurs-conseils).
2.3.   L'assirnilation des options decidees pour Is projet a etd relativement facile pour
leas cadres natlonaux en raison du fait que l'approche "travail en equipe a ite privil6gi6e
pour les actions arretdes. Si une action d0kcidde s'est averde inefficace au cours de son
ex6cution, lI'quipe revenait sur sa decision tout en procedant aux corrections
indispensables.
III - EXECUTION DU PROJET
3.1. Les difficultes rencontr6es lors de l'exdcutlon du projet ont et6 beaucoup plus
d'ordre administratif. Avant sa transformation en socidtd d'Etat en 1 991, l'Office devait so
contormer aux procedures de passation de march4s de l'Administration. C8lles-ci sont
lourdes et couteuses en temps. Neanmoins, la volontd de rdussir de Ml'quipe de projet a
contribud A contourner les obstacles. Des contacts avec des responsables de haut
niveau ont permis de vaincre les lourdeurs administratives. La confiance dans Il quipe
dirigeante du sous secteur a ete 6galement un eilment favorable dans les prises des
decisions au niveau des Ministeres pour recusillir les signatures. Les relationis
horizontales (Directeur a Directeur, Ministre a Ministre) ont et utilisees comme levier
quand les blocages se faisaient sentir.
3.2.  La delai de mise en vigueur a 6t6 rapide par cornparaison avec calul d'autres
projets. La qualite des dossiers prdsentes par le sous secteur des teldcommunications A
la conference des bailleurs de fonds a accdlr6 l'evolution des actions.
3 -



3.3.  Le rythme d'exdcution des differentes composantes du projet a 6t  rapids en
raison de la bonne coordination qui se faisait au niveau des differents responsables
int6resses au projet. Le dialogue permanent d'une part. entre I quipe de projet et les
bailleurs de fonds et d'autre part. entre lquipe de projet et les ingdnieurS-conseils
explique la rapidite d'execution des diff6rentes composantes. Meme si elle parait
negligeable du point de vue coCit. I'utilisation des mayens de communications par
l6'quipe de projet pour expliquer et rdsoudre certains problhmes avec les dIffArants
partenaires a Li% un facteur appr6ciable clans 1'execution des actions.
3.4.  L'OPTT a efficacement contribud A la conception et & la d6finition du projeL Le
personnel necessaire A la gestion du pFejet a 4td rapidement mis A disposition du projet
En co qui concerne les investissements. las objectifs fixes au projet ont 6t6 assez
modestes. A posteriori, on remarque qu'avec Iequipe de projet. I'OPTT disposait cratouts
lui permettant de r6aliser plus que ce qui a ete fait. Au plan institutionnel. il rests du
chemin a faire. L'OPFF s'emploie A faire progresser ce dossier sensible en accordant
une priorit6 a la miss en place d'un cadre r6glementaire.
3.5. D'une maniere gdnerale, la Banque a ete prompte dans ses actions. L'ouverture
au dialogue et la flexibilit6 de la 8anque ont favoris6 la realisation des modifications
introduites par l'OPTT.
3.5.1. La configuration initiaJement ratenue prhvoyait la cohabitation du rbssau
analogique existant avac des rdseaux numeriques a Lom6 et dans la region de la Kara
Compte tenu des prix tr&s compdtitifs obtanus du fait des-appels doffres intemationaux, il
est apparu plus interessant de proc4der a un remplacement imm6diat des equipements
analogiques dans las localit6s oCi il en existe et dautomatiser le reseau dans certaines
localitds et ceci sans ddpassement de l'enveloppe initialement prevue.
3.5.2. Cette decision se justiflait non seulement sur le plan des cotOts
d'investissement mais aussi au niveau des coOts dexploitation et de la qualito de
service dans la mesure ou l'entretien des 6quipements analogiques devenait do plus en
plus couteux (rarete de pibces de rechantge) sans la garantle d'une disponibilite et d'une
qualit6 de service acceptable.
-4-



3.5.3. Au plan de la commutatlon la modification s'est traduite par une
augmentation des sites dilnstallation qui sont passdes ;k 19 (dont 4 k Lam6) au lieu de
8 Installations initialement pr6vues. La capacitd ainsi install6e est de 23.040 LP (dont
16.512 k Lame) contre 12.500 LP prevues au projet initial. Les travaux d'ambnagerment
des bAtiments ainsi que ceux d'6nergie et d'environnement ant ete etendus aux
fnouvelles localitds intfgr6es au projet.
3.5.4. En transmlssion 50 kilom4tres do ci.bles k fibre optique ont dti tiroe.'s au
lieu de 36 kilom6tres inaialement prevus. La supplement conceme essentiellement la
rigion de la Kara. Par azlieurs. Iaxe principal de liaison hertzienne a et6 prolong6
Jusqu'h Dapaong pour desservir cette localite et celle de Mango. Des centres de
modulation ont dt6 rdalis6s i Ts6vie, Notsi, Atakpame, Sotouboua et Sokodb. Des
bretelles suppimentaires vers Anetho. Kpalimrn, Bafilo et Kantd ant iti egalentent
rialisies.
3.6. Dans ia pratique an a remarqud quo les procidures de la Banque garantissaient la
transparence au niveau des choix. Ceci a permis de rdariser des investissements; les
Plus avantageux pour l'Office. Pour tirer profit de ces proc6dures. 1'OP17 les a adapt6es
et mises en viguour pour ses marchis internes. Cest lt un apport non negligeable du
proiet.
3.7. Les autres bailleurs de fonds ont dt6 Ogalement tres ouverts au dialogue. Dans
I'ensemble, ils ont reagi favorablement aux modifications souhaitees par l'OPTT. La
sp6cificaton du sectaeur explique en partie l'attitude au dialogue de tous les bailleurs de
fortds.
IV - EXPLOITATIQN DU NOUVEAU RESEAU
4.1. Perfarmangne du rje-%;Xu
4.1.1. La qualt de service et la disponibilit obtenues avoc la mise en sOrvice
O-du r6seau num6rique en juillet 1992 so sont maintenues malgr6 les problimes de
muttrise de la nouvelle technologie et le retard dans l'acquisition de, matiriels de
maintenance.
4.1.2. La disponibilitd des centraux avoisine 100 % de meme quo pour lfs
liaisons en fibre optique. Pour les liaisons hertulennes. Ia disponibilite est do l'ordre do
96 %. Ces liaisons sont sonsibles aux intempiries notamment en piriode pluvieuse et
durant rharmattan oui cn relive des evanouissements.



4.1.3. Au niveau des rdseaux locaux, la vitesse de relIve des derangements en
deux (2) jours atteint 84 % et en huit (8) jours 94 % pour la moyenne nationale en
novembre 1993. Nlanmoins, des efforts restent A faire pour la qualit6 des interventons
(organisation. contrble. recyclage du personnel, outillage).
4.2. Taxdon ptn
4.2.1. Deux ans apr6s la mise en service des nouveaux 4quipements. Ie taux
d'occupation des centraux est pratiquement d 99 % dans la zone de Lomd et la
moyenne natonale est de I'ordre de 85 % comme le montre le tableau ci-dessous. Une
explosion de la dernands a t6 cQnstat64e surtout A Lomn.
Taux d'occupatlon des centraux au 19 octobre 1994
!;antrns;           LI 6auin6es   Noembr  de LP Taur doceuoation
LOME-CENTRE                 10.624           10.586          99,64
LOME-CACCAVELLI             2.560            2.539           99,1 a
LOME-HEDZRANAWOE            2.048            2.o045          99,85
LOME-PORT                   1.280            1.280          100,00
ATAKPAME                      768              335           .47,53
TSEVIE                        512              173           33,79
ANEHO                         512              259           50.59
KPALIME                       640              310           48,44
NOTSE                         128               90           70,53
KARA                        1.536              676           44,01
SOKODE                        768              489           63,67
DAPAONG                       512              286           55,86
BASSAR                        256              100           39,06
SOTOUBOUA                     256               69           26.95
MANGO                         128               85           66.04
NIAMTOUGOU                    128               76           59,38
PYA                           128               98           76,56
KANTE                         128               35           27,34
BAFILO                        128               42           ;i
Total     23.040            19.603          85.08



4.2.2. En ce qui concerne les reseaux locaux, on constate k Lom6 des
saturations dans les nouveaux quarders pdriph6riques et dans les zones conserv*es en
base 7. Des travaux de dessaturaiion se font dans le cadre de 1'exploitation normale.
4.2.3. En transmission; le dimensionnement permet de supporter le trafic actuel
mais un renforcement de 'axe principal est n6cessaire A court terme surtout sur le
trongon Lome - Atakpame.
4.2. Difficult6s
Lacquisition des moyens logistiques (apparsiis cis mesure. outillages. vdhicules) pout
P'exploitation et la maintenance du reseau a pris du retard compte tenu de la crnis
socic-politique que le pays a connue. Ceci n'a pas permis de rendre op6rationnellhs
toutes les structures de maintenance elaborees apres la mise en service du nouveau
r63eau. Ces structures se mettent en place progressivement avec un renforcement des
competences du personnel par des formations assistance qui sont organisees.
* Fst a Lomb, en ddcembre 1994
edition de janvier 1 g95
-7-



'C'OGO POSTAL AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
(OPI)
IMPLEMNENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
0.1   The Government of the Republic of Togo was granted an IDA credit of SDR 12.3 million
to finance its telecommunications project. IDA appraised the project from December 18 through
December 23, 1989; the negotiations were conducted from Mlay 9 through May 13, 1989, with
approval on June 29, 1989 and signature on July 18, 1989. The credit became effective on July
16, 1990, i.e., slightly more than eighteen (18) months after the project had been appraised. The
closing date was extended to June 30, 1995 instead of December 31, 1994 as originally scheduled.
0.2   The purpose of this report is to establish the principal lessons to be learned from the project
cycle, based on objective factors associated with the first telecommunications project financed by
IDA. The central topics addressed by the report are the following: project design; project
preparation; project executioh (the borrower's performance. the World Bank's performance and
relations between the borrower and the donors); and operation of the new system.
1.    PROJECT DFSTGN
1.1   The basic factors which resulted in the design of this telecommunications project are the
following:
a    the wish of the Togolese authorities to apply the guidelines set forth in the
telecommunications master plan, the drafting of which was supported by UNDP as part
of the government's overall policy for the 19851990 period.  The International
Telecommunications Union (ITU) was engaged as the executing agency responsible for
drawing up the plan;
*    the willingness of the development partners to support the government's efforts to
modernize Togo's telecommunications system.
1.2   The goal of those responsible for telecommunications was to solve the following problems:
*     the need to meet the pressing demand, which in 1984 amounted to 7,768 (out of a total
16,223), a large percentage of which came from potential professional customers;
*     modernization of the national telephone system, whose cable, switching and transmission
systems were plagued with serious shortcomings; and
*     improvement of the sector's management capacity through proper use of the data
processing facilities.



2
1.3   Those concerns were presented to the technical departments of the Planning Ministry so
that they could be included in the global macroeconomic framework and sectoral development
plan, both of which had been introduced at the donors' conference in 1986 and the subsectoral
meeting in 1988.
1.4   The basic lines of the project were paEterned on the major premises of the development
strategy sec forth in the master plan. thus making it easier to define the initial objectives.
1.5   On the whole, the project's saructure and complexity were competently handled, since the
initial selections were unequivocally established in consultation with the various agents and clearly
understood by them.
El.   PROJECT PR-PARATTON
2.1   In the project preparation stage, the OPmT (which is the government executing agency)
was called on to play a leading role in performing the following functions:
*     establishment of a project team responsible for organizing and following up on the job.
The team consists of highly motivated telecommunications engineers and technicians:;
*     updating of the master plan guidelines pursuant to the project goals defined;
*     selection of engineering consultants to assist the project team in areas in which the OPTT
lacks the necessary resource personnel; and
*     identification of additionaL measures aimed at optimizing the use to be made of the project.
2.2   The activities scheduled for the project were carried out by the team with assistance from
the engineering consultants. The team spirit that inotivated the various parties interested in the
project was helpful in making the selection, which resulted from an exchange of opinions between
the local managers and those brought in from other countries (the engineering consultants).
2.3   The options selected for the project were relatively easy for the local staff to master, tha3ks
to the adoption of a team approach for the sequence of action agreed upon. Whenever the actual
execution process showed one of these activities to be ineffectual, the team backtracked and mude
any corrections necessary.
Im.   PROJECTy1XE-C1IMQN
3.1    Most of the difficulties encountered in the course of project execution were of an
administrative nature. Prior to its conversion into a state-owned company in 1991, OPMI was



3
required to conform to the governrment's procuremenE procedures. which are cumbersome, costly
and protracted. The project team's zeal to succeed, however, helped to overcome the obstacles.
Contact with high-level officials also made it easier to bypass the red tape. The confidence vested
in the subsector's leaders was another advantage in obtaining ministerial signatures at the decision-
making level. Horizonal relationships (director to director, minister to minister) were used for
leverage to remove difficulties.
3.2   The time required for execution was short in comparison with the periods on record for
other projects. The quality of the material presented by the telecommunications subsector at the
donors' conference helped to expedite completion of the activities.
3.3   The pace at which the differenc project components were executed was swift, thanks to
efficient coordination by the various interested parties responsible. Ongoing dialogue-between
the project team and the donors, on the one hand. and between the project team and the
engineering consultants. on the other--explains the speed with which the different components
were completed. Use of the means of communication by the project team to explain and resolve
cerain problems with the different partners, however negligible it may seem from the standpoint
of cost, was an important factor in carrying out the action scheduled.
3.4   The OPTT made an effective contribution to the design and demails of the project. The
requisite managerial staff was made available without delay. The amount of investment set for
the project was quite modest. In retrospect, it was observed that the wvork of the project team had
equipped the OFUT to achieve even more than was accomplished. Additional progress remains
to be made from the institutional standpoint, and the OPTr is now making an effort to tackle this
task by placing priority on establishment of a regulatory framework.
3.5    Generally speaking, the Banks action has been prompt. Its openness to dialogue and its
flexible approach made it easier to put into effect the changes introduced by the OPTT.
3.5.1  The configuration originally adopted called for coexistence of the existing analog
system with the numerical systems at Lome and in the Kara region. Given the highly competitive
prices obtained in the international bidding process, it was deemed more advantageous to replace
the analog equipment immediately in the places where it was still being used and to automate the
-systern in cerain locales, without exceeding the budget contemplated at the start.
3.5.2   This decision was justified. not only from the angle of investment costs, but also
in terms of operating expenses and service quality, inasmuch as the cost of maintaining the analog
equipment continued to rise (due to the scarcity of replacement parts), without any guarantee of
availability and acceptable service quality.
3.5.3 Switching was accomplished by increasing the number of installation sites to 19
(four of them at Lome) instead of the eight originally scheduled. The installed capacitY thus
became 23,040 LP (16,512 at Lomr) as compared with the 12,500 LPs envisaged at the start.



4
Buildings were retrofitted and the energy and environmental requirements were addressed in the
new locales that had been included in the project.
3.5.4  TransmjsMiin: 50 kilometers of fiberoptic cables were laid instead of the 36
kilomerers planned originally. The area most affected by this addition was the Kara region. At
the same time, the length of the principal axis of the microwave link was extended to Dapaong
in order to accommodate that district, along with Mango. Modulation centers were set up at
Tsevie, Notsc, Atakparnc. Sotouboua and Sokod6. Additional loops--to Ancho. Kpalime, Bafilo,
and Kante-were also installed.
3.6   In practice, it was observed that the Bank procedures ensured transparency of the selection
process, thus allowing the OFT7 to make optimal use of its investment. To take advantage of that
opporruniry, the OPmT adapEed those procedures and put them into effecc for the domestic market
as well. This further project benefit has proven to be of considerable value.
3.7   The other donors were equally open to dialogue. By and large, they reacted favorably to
the changes sought by the OPTT. The amenability to dialogue displayed by all of the donors was
due in part to the specific nature of the sector's needs.
IV. OPERATrON OF THE 1NW SySTFM
4.1   systCM perfarmanrie
4.1.1   The service qualirt and availability obtained by putting the numerical system into
effect in July 1992 were maintained, despite the problems entailed in mastery of the new
technology and the delay in acquiring the materials needed for maintenance work.
4.1.2   Service availability from the exchanges and fiberoptic links is close to 100%; for
the microwave links it runs to about 96%. The connections are apt to be affected by exposure to
changes in the weather, particularly during the rainy semon and the harmatran, when the sound
tends to fade in and out.
4.1.3   At the local network level, 84% of service interruptions are repaired within two
(2) days, while the national average was eight (8) days and 94% as of November 1993.
Additional efforts must be deployed, however, to ensure proper service quality in such areas as
organization, control, staff retraining and equipment.
4.2    JasqgL Rate
4.2.1   Two year after the new equipment was placed in service, the performance of the
exchanges is almost 99% in the Lome region, while the average for the entire county is around
85 %, as may be seen in the table below. Soaring demand is particularly evident in L-ome.



5
Usage Rate of the Exchanges as of October 1993
EXCHANGE                 EQUIPPED LIs  [ NO. OF LPs  USAGE RATE
LOME-CENTRE                                 10.624        10.586           99.64
LOME-CACCAVELI                              2,560          2,539           99.18
LOME-HEDZRANAWOE                            2,048          2,045           99.85
LOME-PORT                                    1,280         1,280           100.00
ATAKPAME                                      768            335           47.53
TSEVIE                                        512            173           33.79
ANEHO                                         512            259           50.59
KPALIME                                       640            310           48.44
NOTSE                                          128            90           70.53
KARA                                         1,536           676           44.01
SOKODE                                        768            489           63.67
DAPAONG                                       512            286           55.86
BASSAR                                        256            100           39.06
SOTOUBOUA                                     256             69           26.95
MANGO                                          128            85           66.04
NIAMTOUGOU                                     128            76           59.38
PYA                                            128            98           76.56
KANTE                                          128            35           27.34
BAFILO                                         128            42           32.86
TOTAL                                23.040,        19,603           85.08
4.2.2   Insofar as the local systems are concerned, saturation is apparent in the new
peripheral districts and in those retained in base 7 [sic]. Work to relieve such satration is
routinely performed in the course of day-to-day operation.



6
4.2.3   The dimensions used for transmission will accommodate the present traffic load.
but the principal axis will have to be strengthened in the near term. particularly on the Lome-
Atakpame line.
4.3   Difficulties
Acquisition of the necssary logistic material (measuring instruments. equipment and vehicles) for
operating and maintenance purposes has been delayed due to the sociopolitical crisis experienced
by the country. As a result, it has not yet been possible to start operating all of the maintce
structures programmed following inauguration of the new network. Those structures are gradually
being activated at the same time that staff capabilities are being strengthened by means of
organized training sessions.
Lom6, December 1944
(January 1995 version)



54
Appendix C
IBRD Map No. 21542






M MAURITANIA                  I                                       NIGER
FASO                       ~~~~~~~~~SENEGAL                                                                        l-
BURKINA F ASO                                   ,               I 
-                  R~~~~~UEKINA
U_,NEA,                                       FASO      --
r  (-     ass  < GUINEA    (x .,   t r-   BENIN/
j           (>AVAONG  < , }  SlE   l,     301 I  NIGERIA
LEONEfl   )COTE D'IVOIRE '                 I
(,LIBERI?                GHANA   \/                                  CEENRAL
OCN S~                                                           ) t   i    -CAMlEROON  u
-     SA-VA\N/NA                                                  OCEAN                                                              Gtff  
H_'K                                                                                                  - , J  GABCN   0CGNGO
OFFICE DES  ~~~~~   TOGO                                               3
S. U9X,  XOFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
_,' .4           (   KERAN                    - --..                           PROJET DE TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                    lo-
f   \ - ' 7 '  // . 'FACILITIES TG RE AODEX UNDER THE PROJECTI
'I                           VI2XH~~~~~~~QUPEUIENS XDI PRGAET
-- > zBf6rou    iNAI                               -DIGITAL MWCROWAVE LINK, LOME-KARA 34 M-S ES II
OU                                 V~~~~~~~~~~~~AISONHE T-If"ENNE' IOAIE-IL,RA 34 H,ENS (I I )
N    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~R~~~EGIORIAL MICROW-VE LINK, 8 MA,.,S (IF I I
TI     ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~LIASONS FLXMEXIQES REGIONALES, B UTAIS (I I )
*   NEW DIGITAL TEEEPHONEECHANGE
112511                    NOXP~~~~~~EAUX CENTRAUX NAMEVIGAES
'   -,         8ASSAR               Gm,,,    (I,    .                               - OPTICAL FIBER IINK
-;>J-._ 0 H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OtE DE DESS  ERLE RURIE HASE I
I~~~.'  .-.~~~~~~~~                  0 REMOTE UNITS MDSNX      OBR
ASS t_e g   |   I o__ *  _---                OUNITE XSr TANTE Er ARONNES
IAS) EXISTING FACILIXIES.
/    I-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~EOLUIPEMENTS EXISEANT5
'  (XXIfI     *_    r         ,    .>                         I    N ANA uLOG AUROWE LINK TORBE KEPT ASTER 1992
N            I                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIAISON ANAIOGIOIUE A CONSERVER APRES IW2
G    H  A  N   A                                                                                                         A L    IISON NAECO-E LK tOEREOAEDAFTER 199A2
LIASON ANAIOGIOUE A SAPRXIER APRES 1992
-DIGITAL MICOWAV  LINE
90  .  (   $ :   CIDE  j   t   t       A  TELEPHONE EXCHANGE                             q-
.              0    LA J. M                                      AN   TELEPEHON  EXCHANGE
'~~~~~~L                                R~~~~~~~~~~ ~~PEICIPVX CE.TRAUXATANUELS 
I J   \ /}          I;   h                          _   ROUTES PRINCIPALEi
C   E   N      L              ALA                        SELECTED SECONDART ROCAXX
SOTGUROUA               /  '-t                     !                  ROUTES SECGNCDAIRES CAHOISIES
i'                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEIN RIVERSIAOTVT
A   \   SOTOUBOUA  Z J                / Z        t        !             -  ~~~~~~~~~~~C^OM RSD EAU IMPORTILNTS
Ef)      \-                     Ly~~~~~~ S                            I                             
SELECTED TOWNS
I-'.                                             *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREFECTR  CAPITALS
) % 3_ '-''-''-'' CHEFS-IIEUXA  f PREFECIURE
RRIT~~~~~~~~~~  -  ~ ~      ~        bREGION CAPITALS
CHEFS-LIEUX DE REGION
NATIONAI CAPITAL
-.--PRFElCTURE BOUNDARIES
LIMIES DE Ft2EFECTURES
..          - , X  _  ;  s   v   REGION OUNDANRES
B'   <                                                                                              j                 LIMITUS DL R_  .  RIEGIONS                              E.-
t   ..--''~                I       (J                                   - INTERNONAL BOUNDARIES
I                                   ERON~~~~~~~~~~~~~TitRES INTrENArToNALUs
Lake                                                                                                                                                    1 .   WAWA  NIGERIA
Volta                                                     TARPAMA                  j                       BE NI N
WVM                   PA    E OS/S    A U    I               '        tO I   C       HRAjTHA A             RL     |  I
)  I  ..                                      IT X~~ ~               ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIOIETIER
~~ ii                J/Gro                             HkIO              '11                 \                   / 
7-                                                                                                        x         -< ~                     '  t/7 CnrI))7
AAAt2









IMAGING
Report No:       15666
Type: ICR



