Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7721-To
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
JUNE 12, 1989
Africa Technical Department
Africa Country Department I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - CFAF Franc (CFAF)
$1.0         - CFAF 300 (floating)
FF 1         =  CFAF  50 (fixed)
FISCAL YEAR
Government = January 1 - December 31
OPTT       = January 1 - Decamber 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    - African Development Bank
BCEAO   -  Central Bank for West African States
CCCE    - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CCP     -  Postal Checking System
CEDEAO  - Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS, Lome)
CIDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency
DEL     - Direct Exchange Line
EIB     - European Investment Bank
EPIC    -  Industrial or Commercial Public Enterprise
FAC     -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAD     -  Fond Africain de Developpement
GDFCF   - Gross Domestic Fixed Capital Formation
GDP     - Gross Domestic Product
GNP     - Gross National Product
GOT     - Government of the Republic of Togo
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
ITU     -  International Telecommunication Union
LIB     - Limited International Bidding
MEPT    - Ministry of Equipment, Post and Telecommunications
MFE     - Ministry of Finance and Economy
MISE    - Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises
MPM     - Ministry of Plan, Mining, Trade And Transports
OPTT    - Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Togo
PCO     -  Public Call Office (Cabine Publique)
PE      -  Public Enterprise
PPF     -  Project Preparation Facility
SAC     -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP     -  Structural Adjustment Program
SOE     -  Statement of Expenditures



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTTj
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................... i- iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  .....................................     1
Project History ....... ................1......... 
Economic Context ....... ...................          1
II.   THE POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ...........      2
Background ...       ..................................  2
Telecommunications Services .................... .    2
Postal Services      ..........             ..        4
Sector Issues   ..................................    5
Sector Strategy and Goals .................... ..     6
III.  IMPLEMENTING AGENCY AND POLICY ENVIRONMENT   .......      7
Background ......................                     7
Policy Environment .............................      7
Organization and Management of OPTT      .     .      8
Staff and Training .............................      9
Planning and Project Management .............         9
Financial Management ............. ..............   10
Billing and Collection         .........................   10
Data Processing .......     .........................   11
Technical Assistance ......    .....................   11
IV.   THE ROLE OF THE BANK .....       ........................   11
V.   THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT .....     .................   12
The Telecommunications Investment Program .......   12
The Project ....................................    13
Cost       .........................................    14
Financing        ....................................   15
Procurement . ........ ....  ..................   16
Disbursement ...     ..............................    18
Project Implementation            .      .         19
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of Messrs.
Philippe Lecharny (Telecommunications Engineer and Task Manager), Jean
Boutan (Financial Analyst), Yves de Talhouet (Financial Analyst and
Economist) and Marcel Scoffier (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS . ............................. .    20
Past Performance ................ ... .  .......  .    20
Present Position ...............         .    .. *       21
Projected Financial Performance ................    22
Projected Financing Plan ........... .. ..........    24
Tariffs .................... . .....................    25
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ................................    26
Return on Investment ...          ........................    26
Benefits        ...        ............................    26
Fiscal Impact ...............................................    27
Least Cost Solution ................    ............    27
Risks ..       ........................................    27
Environmental and Health Effects           ...............    28
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS           ...................    28
Agreements Reached During Negotiations .........    28
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness          ............    29
Recommendation        ............. .29
LIST OF ANNEXES AND CHARTS
1.  Basic Data - Togo Telecommunications .... ....   30
2.  Comparative Telecommunications Data . ........   32
3.  Forecast Demand  ........... .. . .. . . . . .  .... .... .    34
4.  Performance Contract ......        ..................    35
5.  Action Plans for Institutional Improvement  ..   43
6.  _Organizational Chart         ........................    47
7.  OPTT Staff Summary ...          ....................   48
8.  Project Description ......        ...................    49
9.  Project - Cost ............       ..................    53
10.  Technical Assistance Summary .....        ...........    54
11.  Schedule of Disbursement .....         ...............    55
12.  Implementation Schedule           .....................    56
13.  Performance Indicators .          .....................    57
14.  Assumptions for the Financial Projections ....    58
15.  Communications Tariffs        ......................    66
16.  Return on Investment ......        ..................    67
17.  List of Documents in the Project File    .......   69
MAP IBRD No. 21542



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Stummary
Borrower:         Republic of Togo.
Beneficiary:      Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Togo (OPTT).
IDA Credit:       SDR 12.4 million ($16.0 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard IDA, 40 years maturity.
Onlendinp Terms:  The Government of the Reputlic of Togo (GOT) will onlend
the credit proceeds to OPTT at an interest rate of 7.65Z
for a period of 17 years, including five years grace.
OPTT will assume the foreign exchange risk.
Project           The objectives of the project are:  (a) to support
Obiectives:     institutional reform and manpower strengthening in the
post and telecommunications (P&TC) sector in line with
the broader public enterprise reform initiated under
Togo's structural adjustment program; (b) to increase the
size and scope of telecommunications (TC) services in
order to meet the likely demand increase resulting from
private sector development and enhanced external trade
activity; (c) to improve the quality of TC service
offered to present subscribers; and (d) to enhance the
financial performance of the P&TC sector thereby
increasing resource transfers to the Government.
Proiect           The project supports:  (a) execution of OPTT's 1989-93
Description:    investment program; and (b) institutional and management
improvement in the P&TC. sector.  The main components
include: (i) expansion of local networks in the Lome and
Kara regions by approximately doubling existing
capacities representing construction of 16,000 lines in
subscriber networks, and expansion of switching
capacities by 12,500 lines in two main and six remote
exchanges; (ii) construction of two Lome-Kara digital
microwave links; (iii) installation of multi-access
digital systems for rural communications in selected
areas, i.e., 15 systems for about 450 distant subscribers
or public call offices (PCOs); (iv) rehabilitation and
selected upgrading of existing network and common
facilities to improve operation, maintenance and quality
of service; and (v) technical assistance and training for
institutional and management improvement of both postal
and telecommunications operations, particularly in the
areas of financial management; planning and project



- ii -
execution including operation of new systems;
computerization; management information systems; human
resource development.
Project Benefits  The project will help develop, rehabilitate and
and Risks:      efficiently manage an essential infrastructure sector,
thus improving productivity throughout the economy.
Indeed, access to adequate telecommunications
infrastructure will boost the productive sectors of the
economy, by recognizing the importance of information as
a factor of production, thus contributing to the
achievement of the country's economic growth objective.
The project will support Togo's ongoing structural
adjustment program, in particular with regard to public
enterprise reform, through improved investment
programming and financial management in the
telecommunications and postal sector. Sector resource
mobilization and resource transfer to Government will be
improved. The project faces no unusual risks. Project
implementation and expected benefits would be adversely
affected only if the anticipated organizational and
management improvements are not fully attained or
delayed. This is being minimized by agreement on
comprehensive action plans and by the technical
assistance, monitoring and review procedures included in
the project.
Estimated Costs:
----CFAF Billion -----   -----$ Million-------
Items                Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
1.  Local Network              1.0      3.3     4.3     3.5    10.8    14.3
2.  Switching Centers          0.7      2.6     3.3     2.1      8.8    10.9
3.  Transmission               0.2      0.9     1.1     0.6      3.0     3.6
4.  Rural Network              0.1      0.5     0.6     0.3      1.7     2.0
5.  Maintenance and            0.1      0.3     0.4     0.3      1.0     1.3
Rehabilitation
6.  Institutional              0.3      1.1     1.4     1.0      3.7     4.7
Development
Total Base Cost          2.4     8.7    11.1      7.8    29.0    36.8
Physical Contingencies    0.2      0.6      0.8     0.7      2.0     2.7
Price Contingencies        0.5     1.0      1.5     1.6      3.3     5.1
Total Contingencies      o.7     1.6      2.3     2.3      5.3     7.8
Total Project Cost         3.1    10.3    13.4    10.3    34.3    44.6



- iii-
Financing Sources al
----$ Million Equivalent----
Local     Foreign       Total
IDA                            1.6        14.4         16.0
EIB                            1.9         8.5         10.4
AFDB                           0.3         3.'           4.0
CIDA                           0.3         2.0          2.3
FAC                            -           0.3          0.3
UNDP                           -           0.1           0.1
OPTT                           6.0         4.9         10.9
CCCE                           0.2         0.4          0.6
Total                  10.3       34.3          44.6
Estimated Disbursementssbl
-----------$ Million Equivalent------------
IDA FY           FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
Annual             2.6     5.6     3.7      3.0     0.8      0.3
Cumulative        2.6      8.2    11.9    14.9    15.7    16.0
Economic Rate of Returns 32Z
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 7721-TO, dated May 30, 1989.
Map: IBRD No. 21542
a/ Assuming that the donors finance local cost components, as indicated.
bi Based on expected project implementation rather than the standard
IDA profile due to completion of most preparatory procurement activity
prior to credit effectiveness.



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
Project History
1.01     The Government of the Republic of Togo (GOT) first sought IDA's
advice on the organizational structure of its postal and telecommunications
(P&T) services in 1982 when these were organized as a Government
Department. At that time GOT, with the assistance of CCCE and UNDPIITU,
was undertaking a sector restructuring study and preparing a
Telecommunications Master Plan outlining investment priorities. On the
basis of the recommendations from this study and as part of its efforts to
improve public sector management, GOT establithed the country's P&T
services as an autonomous public agency, the Office des Postes et
Telecommunications du Togo (OPTT). in September 1986. A medium-term
development program was prepared by OPTT for the period 1987-1991 an the
basis of ITU's 1986 Master 'Ilan. In early 1987, the Government requested
IDA's assistance to help formulate an appropriate sector strategy and
coordinate the financing required for the execution of the investment
program. Further to a brief reconnaissance mission, a sector status report
was produced by IDA in May 1987. The report concluded that: (a) the
telecommunications sector in Togo suffered noticeable underinvestment; (b)
the existing large unsatisfied demand justified a substantial near term
investment program consisting of priority works in the greater Lomi and
Kara regions; and (c) additional assistance was required to establish OPTT
on a\sound institutional, financial and operational footing, both in the
telecommunications and the postal sectors. The purpose of the proposed
project is to provide the necessary resources to address these
shortcomings.
1.02     A request of GOT for an advance of $500,000 under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved by IDA in November 1988. This
advance covered the cost of preparatory engineering and management
assistance for the project. The project cost is estimated at $44.6
million, with a foreign exchange component of $34.3 million. An IDA credit
equivalent of $16 million is proposed, with other donors financing the
equivalent of $18 million. OPTT will finance $10 million equivalent
through internal cash generation. The project is expected to be completed
in five years.
Economic Context
1.03     The IDA strategy in Togo is to support GOT efforts aimed at
economic growth and financial stabilization, to be executed through a
program of structural adjustment. This support is tendered through a
series of structural adjustment credits and through a number of relevant
sector-specific lending operations, including the telecommunications
sector. The principal goal of the Government's structural adjustment
program is to raise real GDP growth over the medium term to 4-5Z annually,



-2-
within a sustainable macroeconomic framework. Some of the main o..jectives
of the program are to: (a) strengthen GOT capacity to manage its resources
more efficiently; (b) improve performance of the public enterprise sector
through better sector organization and more commercially-oriented
management; (c) enhance trade activity by removing regulatory and
infrastructure constraints; and (d) promote small and medium scale private
enterprise developmont.
1.04     The project is expected to make a significant contribution towards
the achievement of these objectives. It supports the 1989-93
telecommunications investment program which is focused on the high priority
need for additional telecommunications capacity in the main urban centers.
By providing such additional facilities, the project will promote an
enabling environment for business development, particularly in the trade
sad service sectors where efficient information flow is required.
Moreover, the project supports action plans for the introduction of
management and institutional improvements in the postal and
telecommunications sector. To this end, a perfnnrance contract (Ocontrat
d'entreprise") aimed at defining OPTT's objectiv- and streamlining the
relation between GOT and OPTT is introduced. An appropriate framework for
sector pricing will be created through the introduction of specific
financial performance objectives and a tariff review mechanism.
II. THE POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background
2.01     Togo's postal and telecommunications services are state monopolies
under the control of the Ministry of Equipment, Post and Telecommunications
(MEPT). The Office des Postes et Tel6communications, a fully Government-
owned entity, is a public enterprise in charge of the provision and
operation of domestic telecommunications and postal services.
International communications are provided by Satelit, an autonomous
corporation owned by the GOT with minority participation of "France Cable
et Radio, a French overseas communications agency. Although the two
operating agencies (OPTT and Satelit) enjoy a significant degree of
independence, there are no formally defined relationships between the three
parties that clearly state GOT sector policies and spell out the rights and
obligations of each.
Telecommunications Services
2.02     Demand for Telecommunications Service.  As of July 1988, there
were 9,595 direct exchange lines installed in Togo, 7,420 of which were in
Lome (Annex 1). With a population of about 3.1 million, the telephone
density in Togo is 3.1 per thousand inhabitants, slightly under the average
for Sub-Saharan Africa (Benin: 3.1, Gambia and Ghana: 3.7, Liberia,
Sierra Leone and Senegals 3.6). About 79Z of DELs are in Lome and the
nearby maritime areas which contain only 33Z of the country's population.
About 15Z of DELs are located in eight provincial towns where automatic
exchanges are installed. About 32 smaller villages in rural areas are
connected with manual exchanges. Automatic telex service is available to



- 3 -
all subscribers but telex service is concentrated in Lome. The existing
telex exchange has a low operating utilization (33Z).
2.03     For the last decade, there has been continuous unsatisfied demand
for telephone service as the number of registered applications has
oscillated between two to five times the number of subscribers added each
year. On July 31, 1988 there was a waiting list of 12,387 registered
applicants. Satisfied demand therefore represents only 45? of the
expressed demand (lines in service plus applications). This is
considered a very conservative indicator as long waiting times and lack of
information on expansion plans tend to discourage registration.
2.04     The National Master Plan for telecommunications prepared in 1986
with assistance from the International Telecommunication Union projected
demand to grow at 9Z per annum on average until 1990 and at 11.12 from 1991
to 1995.  A lower growtb average of 92 over the 1990-95 period has been
retained for the purpose of project planning.
2.05     Usage of Telecommunications Service.  As of June 1988, 43Z of the
country's DELs were for residential premises, 142 for Government and 352
for businesses, with 82 of available lines being reserved for service and
test purposes. The number of Government lines is not excessive by regional
standards, though the percentage of lines for service purposes appears
high. The respective shares, in terms of revenue generation, are:
residential 212, Government 132 and businesses 552.
2.06     Existing Facilities and Quality of Service for Telecommunications.
There are nine automatic telephone exchanges with a total capacity of 9,852
DELs in Togo. The nine automatic exchanges are of Pentaconta crossbar type
and were installed between 1976-1986. In addition, there are 32 manual
exchanges with a total capacity of 835 lines. Automatic and manual
exchanges fills average 94Z and 622 respectively. This is high and leaves
very little spare capacity for new connections. The Lome and Kara
exchanges are saturated.
2.07     There is a well developed domestic transmission network based
around a backbone microwave system with an East-West route connecting Lome,
the Benin border (70 kms) and the satellite earth station; and a South-
North route linking Lome to Dapaong through Faso (about 600 km). These
links, which have a capacity of 960 channels but are equipped with 60 to
300 channels, were installed between 1976-1980. Another microwave link
along the coast to Ghana has been in operation since 1984. International
telecommunications services are provided through a large standard A
satellite earth station at Cacavelli, in service since 1980. Telex service
is based on one modern electronic telex exchange in Lome with a capacity of
1,449 lines out of which 489 are connected. There is no unsatisfied demand
for telex service.
2.08     In the Lome area, call completion rates average 60?.  This is good
and reflects moderate congestion in highly saturated exchanges.  Trunk call
completion rates range between 352 for long North-South communications and
602 for shorter communications (about 100 kms). Subscriber line
maintenance and fault repair in the Lom6 region is reasonable. About 682
of defective lines are returned to service within less than 48 hours.



-4-
However, maintenance in provincial areas and on the North-South microwave
link is of much lower quality as attested by the lover call completion
rate.
2.09     Total investment in the telecommunications sector by OPTT in the
period 1980-88 is estimated at CFAP 3.5 billion, averaging CYAF 0.4'.
billion per year. In terms of regional comparisons, telecoummunications
investment as a percentage of GDP has been low at 0.2? over the period
1980-86, equivalent to about half the representative Sub-Saharan Africa
sample. This is reflected in the very high usage rates of the telephone
service. In 1987, estimated revenue per subscriber was CFAF 707,000 which
is one of the highest in West Africa and which has been growing in real
terms at an annual rate of 5? since 1983.
2.10     Financial Performance of Telecommunications Services.  Past
telecommunications financial performance has been satisfactory.
Profitability has been good due to high usage rates and relatively moderate
operating cost. The internal financial rate of return is over 302 due to,
among other things, aging operating assets. However, this rate of return
is overestimated due to a low rate of collection averaging 69? in the
1983-86 period. On a cash basis, OPTT has made a positive net contribution
to GOT Treasury.
Postal Services
2.11     Usage of Postal Services.  An analysis of postage revenues over
the past 10 years shows traffic with low growth and a significant increase
in 1988. International mail is entirely sorted in Lom6 and has
consistently represented a large share of traffic (over 25?) thereby having
a strong effect on revenues (see para 2.13). Domestic traffic is
concentrated in Lom6 which accounts for 80? of delivered mail:
16 companies represent 10? of total postage revenues.
2.12     Demand for Postal Services.  'While growth has been erratic in the
1980-85 period, mail posted in Togo is now steadily increasing. Given the
economic development of Togo, particulThrly in the area of foreign trade, a
3? p.a. future growth rate is a reaso.nable assumption, provided postal
services are supplied efficiently and competitively. The recent creation
of an express mail service illustrates the fact that new demand is fueled
by businesses and focused on international mail. The challenge for OPTT
will be to capture this traffic with appropriate quality of service.
Demand for national and international money-order services is still
important between Western African countries, France and Togo but has to be
offered selectively given the large outstanding claims that have been
accumulated in past year on foreign governments (e.g. Gabon).
2.13     Existing Facilities and Quality of Service.  Togo has 46 postal
facilities: 37 post offices, and 9 postal agencies, equivalent to one
facility for every 68,000 people. Each person sends an average of only 1.4
postal items per year. These figures are very low, but comparable to other
African countries with similar economic characteristics. Mail delivery is
done only through boxes located in postal offices and not through a door-
to-door service which would be costly. However, only 18,800 P.O. boxes are
available to the public throughout the country with a waiting list of over
20,000 applicants. This represents an unsatisfied demand of over 51? and
is a cause of mail loss dute to the excessive use of collective boxes.



Collection is done through 90 collecting boxes which is low and may act as
a deterent to traffic growth. The postal checking service (CCP) has 12,500
customers with an average monthly balance of CFAF 31.350. Most customers
in fact have a much lower average balance since a few large institutions
have considerable deposits in the postal checking system. Private checking
customers are mostly low or low/middle class citizens (civil servants,
rural areas residents) with very low permanent deposits. The number of CCP
customers has been declining in the past years reflecting increased
competition from the private banking sector and a lack of confidence in the
system due to a solvency crisis in 1985.
2.14     No specific indicators, such as mail processing delays, are
available to measure the quality of postal service in Lome or around the
country. Nevertheless, it is most likely that same day delivery in Lome is
achieved by less than 502 of traffic and that next day delivery in main
regional cities is very irregular.
2.15     Financial Performance of Postal Services.  Past sector financial
performance has been balanced. After a period of relative stagnation in
revenues, 1988 showed an increase in revenues of 40X. This would mean
approximately CFAF 200 million in net earnings which is roughly equivalent
to the forecasted investment needs of CFAF 180 million p.a. To secure this
recent financial recovery, it is essential that the Postal Service of OPTT
monitor more accurately, through an improved information system, its
finances, treasury, and production performances.
Sector Issues
2.16     In summary, the main sector issues affecting the post and
telecommunications sector, which should be addressed under a sector reform
program, are as follows:
(a) Lack of a formalized relationship between Government,
OPTT and Satelit: The government lacks an overall
sector strategy and the policy framework to implement
it. As a consequence objectives are not clearly set to
the operating entities thus hindering their planning
ability;
(b) Weaknesses in OPTT's management of the postal and
telecommunications sectors: Of specific concern are the
areas of finance, planning and support services such as
maintenance, inventory management, human resource;
(c) Low service level relative to telephone demand: Only
461 of demand is satisfied (para 2.02). Lome and Kara
exchanges are saturated (para 2.06).



-6-
Sector Strategy and Goals
2.17     In affirmation of the importance of the post and
telecommunications sector for the economic development of Togo, GOT has
established a sector strategy that involves an improvement of overall
sector management and a heavy investment in the telecommunications area.
To strengthen sector management, improvements will be made in the following
areas:
(a) sector institutional framework;
(b) OPTT management and operations to allow the entity to
function as a truly commercially-oriented entity; and
(c) sector resource mobilization.
The investment program, focused on telecommunications facilities,
will aim at:
(a) an increase in access to service in urban and rural
areas to meet part of the large unsatisfied demand;
(b) establishment of a digital network; and
(c) enhancement of network quality and reliability.
2.18     A number of steps have already been taken to meet these goals.
The network configurations required to permit the introduction of digital
technologies have been determined. To catch up with demand, OPTT aims to
double existing telephone line capacity during the next three years
(1989-1992), Future programs would complete modernization of the systems
and include further extensions, thus tripling current capacities by 1995.
However, all demand cannot be met immediately. Thus, while projected
demand by year 1995 is over 40,000 DELs, it is expected that only 28,045
DELs would be connected. At that time, most existing systems would have
been replaced by state-of-the-art digital equipment enabling expansion to
meet requirements through the year 2000.
2.19     On the basis of the UNDP/ITU Master Plan, a near-term investment
plan af priority telecommunications works has been identified (para 5.05).
The estimated cost of the plan is about $44 million equivalent, of which
$34 million is in foreign exchange. The plan was drawn up after a meeting
of GOT, OPTT and interested donors in October 1988 and will be supported by
the proposed project. The project is expected to be executed over the
period 1989-1994.
2.20     In order to improve the management of the sector as well as meet
policy and institutional goals, action plans--also to be implemented during
the project--have been prepared by OPTT (para 3.08). These plans would,
inter alia, provide for major improvements in financial management, project
planning and human resource management.



-7-
III. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY AND POLICY ENIIRONMENT
Background
3.01     The monopoly for the development and operation of domestic public
telephone service in Togo is exercised by the Office des Postes et
Telecommunications Togolais (OPTT). OPTT also has responsibility for the
provision of postal and financial services, areas in which it is in
competition with private couriers (e.g. DHL) and commercial banks,
respectively.
3.02     OPTT was created by decree on September 17, 1986 as an
eetablissement public & caractere industriel et commercial" (EPIC). It
assumed all responsibilities and authority previously given to the
Direction Generale des Postes et Telecommunications of the Ministry of
Equipment, Post and Telecommunications except in cqrtain areas of national
security, where police or military personnel manage their own frequencies.
It has financial autonomy and authority over its personnel. It is
organized with a nine-member Board chaired by the Minister of Equipment,
Post and Telecommunications and has a Director General, appointed by
decree.
3.03     The recent establishment of OPTT points towards a more
commercially-oriented management of the telecommunications sector with
appropriate autonomy. However, the organization is new and has yet to
become fully operational. IDA's involvemeuit is needed to provide general
assistance during this delicate transition period and for refining certain
key policy provisions, in particular in the following areas:
(a) The policy environment: The general framework in which
the various agencies of the telecommunications sector
will work, needs to be better defined, formalized and
put in a longer term perspective.
(b) Organization and management of OPTT: The overall OPTT
structure needs to be strengthened through appropriate
hiring and training. Management by objectives needs to
be introduced with the support of an adequate
information system and with regularly scheduled reviews
and long Lerm planning.
(c) Financial management of OPTT: While there has been
improvement in this area for the past two years, the
organization and procedures need to be tightened to
manage efficiently OPTT finances during the execution of
the planned major investment program.
Policy Environment
3.04     The institutions currently involved in the telecommunications
sector are the Government, OPTT and Satelit. The need to establish a
formal relationship between the Government, OPTT and Satelit has been
recognized by all and is supported by the project. To this end, a th!ee-
year performance contract, the "contrat d'entreprise," has been drafted



(see Annex 4) and its execution by OPTT and GOT is a condition of
effectiveness of the credit. It focusses on operating issues and
management objectives. technical as well as financial, and also includes
objectives for the postal sector.
3.05     This performance contract will be one of the first such documents
to be implemented in Togo. It will put to the test GOT's new role as a
regulator and OPTT's enhanced autonomy. It will highlight the benefits of
independent but regulated sector management. This contract, and the
overall institutional framework that it helps to put in place, will then
serve as a basis for further sector restructuring. Indeed several
additional issues are raised by the new structure of the sector and while
they do not affect operations in the short term, they do need to be
addressed in the longer term. First, there is the question as to whether
OPTT's monopoly over the entire telecommunications sector should be
maintained. Areas such as data transmission, cellular radio, computer
cabling, wiring of buildings, are not affected by the same economies of
scale and cross-subsidization as the conventional telephone network. Such
activities can attract private investment and hence mobilize new resources.
Second, the structure of the operating companies (i.e., OPTT and Satelit)
should be examined to see if further reform could enhance sector
management. OPTT statutes should be revised to reflect the new principles
that will be introduced by the PE reform through laws to be enacted by
December 30, 1989. Specifically, board composition and nomination
procedures should be reviewed to see if more private sectar participation
could be allowed. Privatization options should be studied. The merger of
Satelit and OPTT should be considered since this could bring about
efficiencies in the long term as a result of greater economies of scale,
better planning and easier overall management of telephone service. A last
issue is how GOT should carry out its regulatory function and what should
be its strategy. Today, the monopoly situation of OPTT simplifies
regulation which is done by GOT and partly by OPTT. As services and
customer equipment become more diverse and sophisticated, and as
deregulation takes place, the reguletvry structure will need to be
reinforced and its duties clarified. All the above issues will be
addressed under a sector restructuring study supported by the project.
Organization and Management of OPTT
3.06     The new OPTT organization chart is at Annex 6.  It was approved by
OPTT's Board on March 16, 1988 and is being implemented gradually. It puts
a clear separation between postal and telecommunications activities and
consolidates all financial functions into a single department. In
addition, distinct operational responsibilities have been given to the main
regional centers in a limited but adequate manner given the small size of
the network. An evolution towards more regional autonomy is planned as the
network grows.
3.07     OPTT is surprisingly business-minded given its only recent
cormercial orientation. However, the present organization is implemented
with a strong focus on line activity. It needs better defined support
functions such as planning, data processing, human resources management and
procurement. Additionally, management needs to strengthen its monitoring
capacity in finance (accounting, budget), in human resources (training,
productivity) and in operations (quantitative objectives with reliable
measures of achievement).



- 9 -
3.08     To this effect, the management improvement program supported by
the proposed project will: (i) assess human resources and, subsequently,
propose and impliment appropriate training and personnel policies; (ii)
enhance financial management capabilities through appropriate accounting
and budget practices: (iii) set up a management information system; and
(iv) strengthen planning, data processing and procurement through
appropriate recruitment and technical assistance. A supplementary
management improvement program for the postal sector is included in the
project and will: (i) implement a reliable system to track mail traffic
flows; (ii) implement specific accounting procedures, determine the postal
assets position and identify indicators for the postal management
information system; (iii) assess human resource requirements and implement
training programs and personnel policy; (iv) implement a commercial
orientation including market studies and appropriate definition of products
with cost and tariff analysis; and (v) formulate a postal development plan
to be presented to OPTT's Board in 1990.
Staff and Training
3.09     As of August 1988, OPTT employed 1,175 persons, 450 for the postal
activities, 565 for the telecommunications sector, and 160 in common
services. A full break-down of personnel is in Annex 7. Total staff
involved directly or indirectly in telecommunications was put at 690, the
equivalent of 70 per 1,0uO DELs. This ratio, close to the regional
average, is high given the concentration of operating equipment in Lome.
OPTT at present lacks a clear human resource strategy in order to address:
(i) the urgent need for skilled higher level development managers and
overall future matnpower requirements; (ii) training needs; and (iii)
productivity measures and targets. To that effect, actions to ensure
adequate personnel management and development are being taken. Firstly, a
centralized personnel department has been created. Secnndly, a new
personnel statute has been drafted by OPTT which should be reviewed and
adopted by its Board no later than June 30, 1990. Under the new statute,
OPTT employees no longer belong to the public service sector, and salary
structures are flexible and incentive-based. Thirdly, a detailed human
resource and training needs study is to be carried out under the project as
part of the action plan for management improvement. During negotiations,
OPTT has agreed to review the recommendations of the study with IDA and
submit a timetable for their implementation no later than December 31,
1990. A training center for postal and telecommnications staff has been
in existence in Togo since 1985. However, it has no permanent staff, no
defined mission and poor facilities. It is currently providing lower to
intermediate level technical classes given by senior technicians. A full
reassessment of the training center, in light of the new equipment
technology being introduced, is to be undertaken by the study including:
(i) organization; (ii) curriculum; and (iii) facilities. The
recommendations of the study will be implemented under the project.
Planning and Proiect Management
3.10     Given its past low level of investment, OPTT has little experience
in the areas of planning, design, engineering and project supervision.
Investment planning has been eone with considerable assistance from
outside, and system design as well as up-front project engineering have



-10 -
been performed by consultants. However, the implementation of the proposed
project which will be supervised by consultants, is intended to strengthen
in-house capabilities. Indeed, the terms of reference for the consultants
specify know-how transfer and on-the-job training of OPTT personnel so that
planning and supervision skills will be retained by the entity. In
addition, project implementation tasks have been outlined and specific
responsibility given to various OPTT departments.
Financial Management
3.11     OPTT's finance department currently consists of three divisions:
treasury, budget and accounting. Its mission, although well formulated, is
poorly implemented due to lack of adequate staff, lack of proper tools
(MIS. accounting plan) and lack of integration with the corporate planning
process.
3.12     An action plan has been formulated to adequately staff the finance
department and provide the tools required for proper financial management
of OPTT. A technical assistant has been recruited for two years as of mid-
October 1988 to help organize the budget and accounting functions. The
terms of reference of his mission have been issued. Its main objectives
are: (i) to define and implement an accounting plan; (ii) to define and
implement accounting procedures enabling timely and reliable book entries;
(iii) to define and implement budget planning and monitoring procedures;
and Ci'. to identify and train appropriate personnel.
3.13     Impr-ved procedures are being put in place throughout OPTT to
produce monthly financial statements that will be used to monitor OPTT's
financial activity. Further, a summarized management information system
will be implemented with relevant indicators reflecting management's
priorities. Meanwhile a computerized accounting and budget system is being
developed that will give additional sneed, reliability and flexibility to
financial management. This system should be complemented by an analytical
accounting system that will improve monitoring, as well as help in the
introduction of future new services.
Billing and Collection
3.14     Until 1986, collection and billing were very deficient:  360 days
receivables, erratic billing cycles of up to six months. Since then. there
has been a determined and continuing effort by OPTT to improve efficiency
in this key area along three main lines of action: (i) improvement of the
production of invoices; improving mechanisms related to invoicing; (ii)
improvement of collection procedures; and (iii) improvement of customer
follow-up. Computerized systems are being put in place, emphasis is put on
the timely production of invoices, cut off policies are in place and
enforced. Billing cycles have been reduced to three months and the
collection rate is up to 802. Billing reliability is being emphasized to
build trust with customers. Complete computerized operations, to be
introduced in 1989, will further enhance OPTT's billing and collection
performance. Moreover, precise targets will be included in OPTT's
"performance contractO to progressively raise the collection rate to 92Z at
the end of the project. As for improvement of customer follow-up, OPTT has
started a policy of close monitoring of major accounts which has
significantly increased timely collection of dues. GOT, which has usually
been paying its consumption in full although often with a delay of over a



- 11 -
year. will require special attention in this respect. Timely and regular
settlement of Government accounts is included in the Operformance
contract.@
3.15     External auditors,  who will ensure proper preparation and
auditing of OPTT's accounts, have been selected under terms reviewed by,
and agreeable to, IDA. Audited accounts for FY87 have been submitted at
negotiations. During negotiations, OPTT has agreed that. starting in FY88,
audited accounts together with an appropriate management report would be
prepared within six months of the end of the fiscal year and sent to IDA
(para 8.01).
Data Processing
3.16     OPTT is engaged in a major overhaul of its data processing system
financed under ongoing CCCE credits. A centralized data processing
department is being created and staffed. A minicomputer will be installed
by the middle of 1989. During 1989, several software packages will be
mounted on the minicomputer to computerize accounting and budgeting,
payroll administration and billing. By the end of 1989 all applications
should be operational.
Technical Assistance
3.17     The proposed project contains a $4.6 million technical assistance
component representing about 330 manmonths and covering four major areas:
(i) human resource development (18 manmonths); (ii) institutional and
management improvement (120 manmonths); (iii) introduction of computers
(98 manmonths); and (iv) project supervision and management (95 manmonths).
The project also supports two studies that will:
(a) define and review sector restructuring options,
including a potential deregulation and privatization of
telecommunications activities, merger of OPTT and
Satelit, separation of postal and telecommunications
activities, reinforcement of GOT regulatory role
(2 manmonths). In addition the importance and potential
impact of informatics will be assessed together with
ways of introducing information related services
(4 manmonths); and
(b) review the appropriateness of existing tariff structure
and level, taking into account, inter alia, demand for
new services as well as the expected evolution of
telephone requirements, and issue recommendation for
improvements (6 manzmonths).
The expertise required of consultants is mostly unavailable locally but
whenever possible, use of local consultants is encouraged (e.g.. as in the
case of the human resources study and the computer maintenance contract).
IV. THE ROLE OF THE BANK
4.01     The IDA strategy in Togo is to support GOT efforts aimed at
economic growth and financial stabilization. This strategy stresses. inter



- 12 -
alia. the need to improve the performance of the public enterprise sector
in order to increase its contribution to economic recovery and improved
public finance. The post and telecommunications sector is important in
this regard and deserves IDA's support. First, it has the potential to
alleviate current infrastructure constraints especially for industrial
investment and for the development of the country's export sector. Second,
it has the capability to generate significant financial surpluses for the
Government's budget.
4.02     During the course of project preparation, IDA has played a major
role in assisting the Government in the formulation of a strategy for the
efficient development of Togo's post and telecommunications sector. First,
it has helped GOT devise an appropriate institutional framework for the
organization of the sector. Second, it has ensured that the diagnosis of
OPTT's organization and management problems was thorough. Third, IDA has
helped prepare detailed action plans and performance indicators to improve
project monitoring, and also has been instrumental in the introduction of
tht concept of the Ocontrat d'entreprise.6 Fourth, IDA has coordinated
donors' assistance and helped OPTT devise an appropriate financing plan for
its investment program.
4.03     In the context of the proposed project, IDA's main contribution
will be:
(a) meeting a proportion of the foreign exchange requirement
of the planned local network expansion;
(b) financing part of the technical assistance and training
requirements for instituticnal improvements in OPTT; and
(c)  providing continuous advice on technical, financial,
institutional and policy matters during project
preparation and execution.
V. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Telecommunications Investment Program
5.01     In 1986, OPTT prepared a telecommunications investment program for
the period 1987-1995. drawing upon the main elements and recommendations of
the UNDP/ITU Master Plan. The program is based on moderate forecasts of
demand growth. It envisages doubling telephone service capacity to about
22,000 lines in 1992 under an initial phase, and adding about 12,000 lines
by 1995 under a subsequent phase. Most existing non-expandable analog
switching and transmission installations would be replaced by more
efficient digital systems during the second phase. By 1995. OPTT would
have a digital network throughout the country with least-cost expansion
capability to meet growth requirements through the year 2000. Telephone
density would be up from 0.3 to 0.8 per 100 population in 1995, which would
still be on the low side compared to the generally accepted regional target
of 1.0.
5.02     Considering the large size of the program and the physical as well
as financial constraints on its implementation, it was decided that the



- 13 -
project would only support the initial phase of the telecommunications
investment program which, on average, would represent a 6Z share of the
total public investment program. This first phase program will include an
important institutional development and training component, together with
extension works of the highest priority. Phase II would include
complementary expansion and modernization works in accordance with GOT and
OPTT development objectives in order to satisfy about 75Z of demand for
service in urban and rural areas by 1995. Phase II would be determined and
undertaken only after successful completion of Phase I, including
improvement of OPTT's management and organization.
The Project
5.03     The project consists of OPTT's near-term program (Phase I), as
updated during preparation and appraisal. Its principal objectives are to
support:
(a) the expansion of the provision of telecommunications
services on a least cost basis as well as improvement of
quality of service;
(b) the progressive extension of telecommunications service
to rural areas; and
(c) the execution of a program of institutional development
and management strengthening in the telecommunications
and postal sectors with particular emphasis on f'nancial
performance.
5.04     The main project components are as followss
(a)  expansion of local networks in the Lome and Kara
regions, i.e., civil works for up to 30,000 main cable
pairs and 16,000 terminal subscriber cables pairs in 2
main and 6 subsidiary exchange areas;
(b)  expansion of switching capaci.y by up to 12,500 DELs
with digital equipment in the Lome and Kara regions,
including 10,000 and 2,500 DELs respectively and 1 main
plus 3 subsidiary distant exchange in each area;
(c) construction of an optical fiber inter-exchange network
in the Lome region to accommodate the new main and 3
subsidiary distant digital switches and interconnect the
new and existing capacities; this represents 4 optic
fiber cables of about 35 kms total length;
(d) provision of 3 digital microwave links in the Kara
region to interconnect the main new Kara exchange and
its 3 subsidiary distant units; the total number of
radio hops will be 7 and equipped capacities of each
link will be (1+1)18 megabits systems (240 equivalent
voice channels maximum);



- 14 -
(e) construction of a large capacity digital microwave link
between the Lome and Kara main exchanges (400 kms); the
link will be equipped with (1+1)12 x 34 megabits systems
(about 2,000 equivalent voice channels, maximum);
(f) provision and installation of 15 multi-access digitals
UHF/VHF radio systems for rural networks with total
capacity for about 450 subscribers or public call
offices in distant or isolated locations of the enlarged
Lome and Kara regions; the systems will be
interconnected with the new local networks from the
project, in Lome and Kara;
(g) provision of spare parts and stores, vehicles and
buildings, tools, testing and support equipment for
maintenance, rehabilitation and common services; and
(h) provision of equipment and technical assistance to
improve OPTT's local training facilities.
A detailed description of the project is at Annex 8.
5.05     In addition, the project provides for up to 330 manmonths of
technical assistance. The technical assistance concerns principally:
(a) project execution;
(b) the preparation and execution of the action plans for
institutional development and management improvement;
and
(c) studies focussed on sector restructuring options and the
need for a tariff reform.
5.06     Terms of reference for all required services have been elaborated
and a detailed implementation schedule has been prepared. The technical
assistance summary is at Annex 10.
Cost
5.07     The total cost of the project is CFAF 13.4 billion ($44.6 million
equivalent) of which the foreign exchange component is $34.3 million, or
77Z of project cost. The local cost component is CFAF 3.1 billion ($10.3
million) exclusive of custom duties and taxes. Details of OPTT's
investment program and project costs are given as Annex 9. Cost estimates
for the local networks subproject in the Lome and Kara regions are based on
studies made by OPTT with the assistance of consultants financed by CCCE.
The studies also take into account the previous experience acquired when
the current network in Lome was constructed. Cost estimates for the rest
of the project are based on the work of the Master Plan team, adjusted for
end 1988 price levels during appraisal.



- 15 -
Table 5.1: Estimated Proiect Cost Summary
---- CFAF Billion -----   -----$ Million-------
Items                Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
1.  Local Network              1.0      3.3      4.3     3.5    10.8    14.3
2.  Switching Centers           0.7     2.6      3.3     2.1      8.8    10.9
3.  Transmission                0.2     0.9     1.1      0.6      3.0     3.6
4.  Rural Network               0.1     0.5      0.6     0.3      1.7     2.0
5.  Maintenance and             0.1     0.3     0.4      0.3      1.0     1.3
Rehabilitation Equipment
and Vehicles. Common
Services Equipment
6.  Institutional               0.3     1.1      1.4     1.0      3.7     4.7
Development
Total Base Cost          2.4      8.7    11.1      7.8    29.0    36.8
Physical Contingencies    0.2       0.6     0.8      0.7     2.0      2.7
Price Contingencies        0.5      1.0     1.5      1.7     3.4      5.1
Total Contingencies      0.7      1.6     2.3      2.4     5.4      7.8
Total Project Cost         3.1    10.3    13.4    10.2    34.4    44.6
5.08     Physical contint.mcies have been set at 5S for both local and
foreign costs of equipment, 10  for the local and foreign costs of
services. and 102 for civil works. Price contingencies are based on
foreign cost increases of 5Z in 198e-90, and of 4? thereafter. Price
contingencies on local costs are based on annual increases of 6?.
Financing
5.09     The proposed sources of financing for the project are as follow:
Table 5.2: Project Financing Plan
--$ Million Equivalent----
Local      Foreign       Total
IDA               1.6        14.4         16.0
EIB               0.8         9.9         10.4
AfDB              0.3         3.7          4.0
CIDA              0.3         2.0          2.3
FAC               -           0.3          0.3
UNDP              -           0.1          0.1
OPTT              7.0         3.6         10.9
CCCE              0.2         0.4          0.6
Total         10.2         34.4         44.6



- 16 -
The proposed IDA credit of $16 million would be made available to GOT on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity. Onlending terms to OPTT have
been agreed at negotiations and are: (a) an interest rate of 7.65X; (b) a
repayment over 17 years inclusive of five years grace; and (c) the foreign
exchange risk to be borne by OPTT. The execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between GOT and OPTT acceptable to IDA would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (para 8.02). The IDA credit will finance cable
supplying, laying and connecting requirements for the Lome and Kara
regions, 1002 of the technical assistance and training for project
execution and the equivalent of 110 manmonths of technical assistance for
institutional development.
5.10     Other costs of the project will be financed as follows:
(a) European Investment Bank will finance all switching
equipment, the optical fiber inter-exchange junctions in
Lome and digital microwave links in the Kara region;
(b) African Devrelopment Bank will finance the cost of the
new digital transmission link Lome-Kara;
Cc) Canadian International Development Agency will finance
rural telephony equipment for the Lome and Kara regions;
*d) Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation will finance 30 manmonths of
technical assistance;
.e) Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique will finance
40 manmonths of technical assistance in addition to the
67 manmonths already planned under the ongoing
computerization projects; and
(f)  United Nations Development Program will finance four
manmonths of technical assistance.
The effectiveness of the IDA credit is conditional on thLe effectiveness of
the financing from EIB, given the close interrelationship between the
elements of each subproject to be financed by these agencies (para 8.02).
At negotiations, agreement was reached that OPTT and GOT should secure the
AfDB financing by December 31, 1990 at the latest. The only other
financing not yet secured is the grant from CIDA which has a marginal
impact on overall project design and project revenue. Twenty-four percent
of the total cost of the project will be financed out of internal cash
generation of OPTT.
Procurement
5.11     The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in
table below:



- 17 -
Table 5.3: Procurement Arrangements
($ million) a/
ICB    Ngti ated  LUBl      Local    Other./    Total
Contracts          Bidding
1. Local network    18.8 (10.8)                                      18.8 (10.8)
2. Switching Centers  10.4                        0.7                11.1
3. Transalsion       4.0                          0.7                 4.7
4. Rural Telephony                2.6                                 2.6
5. Specialized equipmnt                 0.8 (0. 8)                    0.8 (0. 8)
and vehicle. for
me ntenance
S. Toole, suppies                                 0.9 (0.8)          0.9 (0.3)
and spar, parts
7 Consultancy                                              4.6 (386)   4.5 (3.6)
servicess
a Training                              1.2 (1.1)                     1.2 (1.1)
TOTAL               88.2 (10.8)    2.6   2.0 (1.9) 2.8 (0.8) 4.6 (386)  44.6 (18)
Not.: Figures In parentheses Indicate amounts to be financed through the IDA red;t.
g/ Including contingencies.
M Limited International bidding.
S/ Bank guidelines for the use ot consultant.
Local network equipment and installation works to be financed by IDA (up to
$10.3 million) and civil works to be financed by OPTT (up to $8.5 million
equivalent) are part of a single turnkey contract and will be procured
under international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Limited international bidding would be used for $0.8 million
of special maintenance apparatus and for $1.1 million of specialized
training equipment and services. Local bidding would be used for $0.3
million of tools, spares and supplies. Consultant services of $3.5 million
will be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines (this includes those
services already procured under the PPF advance). IDA-financed contracts
of over $100.000 each will be subject to prior IDA review of procurement
documentation and will cover about 95Z of the total value of contracts.
5.12     Procurement under EIB and AfDB will be ICB.  Local procurement of
goods and services to be financed by OPTT would be in accordance with OPTT
procedures. Under CIDA, CCCE and FAC funding, competition will be
restricted to suppliers in the financiers' country.
5.13     To minimize possible implementation delays, advance procurement
activities have been started by OPTT. Details of the schedule for bid
invitation, evaluation and signature of contract have been discussed and
agreed at appraisal. Signing of the contract for the local networks to be
financed by IDA and OPTT will be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para 8.02).



- 18 -
Disbursement
5.14     Disbursement of the IDA credit would be made against:
(a) Statement of Expenditures (SOE) for eligible
expenditures under contracts valued at $100,000
equivalent or less. Aggregated value of contracts for
such eligible expenditures for civil works, construction
materials, services and suppliers under the project
should not exceed $3 million equivalent. Supporting
documentation for these would be retained by OPTT and
made available for review by IDA during supervision.
OPTT's annual financial audits (para 3.11) would include
a separate opinion on the claims submitted to IDA on the
basis of SOEs stating whether such claims are in
accordance with the credit agreement; and
(b) Full standard documentation will be required for
eligible expenditures under contracts not governed by
the preceding paragraph (a).
The estimated disbursement schedule at Annex 11 is based on expected
project disbursements and not on IDA's standard disbursement profile for
all projects in West Africa.  Disbu-sement is expected to be completed as
early as December 31, 1994 due to advance procurement. To accelerate
disbursement, a special account will be established in the name of OPTT in
the Lome branch of tho BTCI with an authorized allocation of $2 million.
This figure represents about four months estimated disbursements during the
peak period of 1991-93. Replenishment requests would be accompanied by
full supporting documentation except for expenditures of $100,000
equivalent or less, for which documentation would be retained by OPTT for
review by IDA during supervision. In both cases, monthly statements for
the special account would accompany replenishment requests.
5.15     Disbursement would be made on the basis of 10OX of the CIF cost of
imported goods and services, 80X of local cost of goods and services, 100?
of the total costs of consultants and training, and 100? of the ex-factory
prices of locally manufactured items. The proposed IDA credit of $16
million would be disbursed as follows:



- 19 -
Table 5.4: Proposed Disbursement of IDA Credit
Amount
Category                   $ Million       Percentage Financed
1.  Local network                 10.0       100Z of foreign expenditures
(cables, installation                  802 of local expenditures;
works)                                  100Z of local expenditures
ex-factory costs
2.  Specialized equipment and      0.8       '.00 of foreign expenditures
vehicles for maintenance                1302 of local expenditures;
1002 of local expenditures
ex-factory costs
3.  Tools, supplies and spare      0.3       Ditto.
parts
4.  Consultants and training       4.1       1002 of total expenditures
5.  PPF refinancing                0.5
6.  Unallocated                    0.3
16.0
Project Implementation
5.16     Timetable and Organization.  IDA has no experience with the
implementation of telecommunications projects in Togo. with the exception
of the PPF advance. Action will be taken under the project, however, to
ensure that undue delays and cost overruns are minimized. Major
construction and installation work will be contracted out. Physical works
will be supervised by OPTT's existing staff who will benefit from training
and technical assistance provided under the project (para 5.04). Technical
staff in charge of project fnllow-up and equipment acceptance will be
trained beforehand. Technical assistance will be provided under the
project to help strengthen the telecommunications planning division for a
better coordination of the investment program.  The project is expected to
be implemented by June 30, 1994. The proposed implementation schedule is
at Annex 12.
5.17     Performance Indicators.  Indicators to monitor OPTT's
implementation of the project, as well as its operations and financial
performance have been prepared (Annex 13). OPTT will be required to report
progress against physical indicators as well as billing and collection
targets in quarterly progress reports to be submitted within one month of
the end of each quarter (para 8.01); and against financial indicators in
the annual financial statements. During negotiations, OPTT agreed to
specified values for indicators projected throughout the life of the
project and five years thereafter. These indicators will be reviewed at
least annually with IDA by June 30 of each year (para 8.01). The quality
and comprehensiveness of the reporting is expected to improve over time as



- 20 -
quality and comprohensiveness of the reporting is expected to improve over
time as a result of the technical assistance, made available under the
project, aimed to improve management information systems.
5.18     Performance Contract  The performance contract will be signed as a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 3.04). Its execution will be
monitored by June 30 of each year with IDA participation, as part of the
indicator review process. GOT and OPTT will have to implement promptly any
reconmendations issued during this review process.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Performance
6.01     Financial statements of OPTT are at Annex 14.  Since prior to
January 1, 1987, OPTT was a Government department with no commercial
accounting, historical financial data is scarce and somewhat unreliable.
Acc-ounts have been reconstructed to show consistency in their presentation
and to allow comparison. From such partial data, it is believed that
postal operations have been in balance for the past five years and that
telecommunications surpluses have grown steadily due to increases in
telephone revenues. The principal indicators of performance are summarized
in the table below.
Table 6.1: Key Indicators of OPTT Past Financial Performance
(CFAF million)
1985    1986     1987
Operating revenues                     6,251   7,074    7,300
(of which telecom)                  5,561   6,407    6,745
Operating expenses                     5,539   5,879    5,335
(of which telecom)                  4,924   5,206    4,787
Net operating result                     711   1,195    1,965
Net fixed assets                               5.597    5,519
Telecom receivables                            1,799    1,576
Long term debt                                 3,277    3,318
Net working capital                              680    2,607
Internal cash generation                       1,397    2,475
Telecom investments                                       693
Debt equity ratio:                             52148    39/61
Rate of return on net fixed assets (Z)            21       35
Telephone rev./DEL (CFAF 000)                    638      627
Collection rate (2)                              69Z      80?



- 21 -
6.02     The main features of past performance are as followss
(a) an unusually high rate of return on net fixed assets
demonstrating aging operating equipment and a low level
of past investment;
(b) a profitability and internal cash generation which is
satisfactory but overstated since the true position
should reflect the existence of doubtful debts. GOT had
accumulated over CFAF 3 billion in arrears by the end of
1986, and privnte sector receivables also amounted to
CFAP 3 billion. With the current collection rate
averaging 80Z, a bad debt provision to cover 20Z of
private sector billing would eliminate over three
quarters of net income in 1986;
(c)  a government equity contribution of CFAF 3 billion in
the 1987 opening balance sheet corresponding to the
transfer to the newly created OPTT of all assets and
liabilities previously owned by the Ministry of
Telecommunications. In addition all government arrears
were cleared;
(d) a very high revenue per DEL (over $2,000) highlighting
the strong demand for telephone service; and
(e) relatively moderate operating costs, due to successful
efforts on the part of OPTT management to limit cost in
a period of strict adjustment of the Togo economy.
Present Position
6.03     The summary balance sheet as of December 31, 1987 is shown below.



- 22 -
Table 6.2: OPTT Balance Sheet (as of December 31, 1987)
(CFAF million)
Assets
Net fixed assets                                     6004
Telecommunications receivables (private)a/           1576
Cash and banks                                       4707
Other short term assets                              3976
Total                        16,263
Liabilities
Equity                                               5292
Long term debt                                       3318
Postal checking system                               1039
Treasury                                             1054
Other short term liabilities                         5559
Total                        16,263
a/ Private accounts receivable are net, after a provision
for bad debts of about 20Z.
6.04     OPTT's financial situation is healthy with a strong cash position.
Its debt to equity ratio of 0.38 provides good leverage for borrowing, in
addition to OPTT's good internal cash generation potential. However,
CFAF 3 billion of OPTT's other short term assets consist of claims on
foreign postal administrations which are likely to remain uncollected given
the poor financial situation of the debtors (e.g., Gabon, Congo). As a
consequence, the book value of OPTT's receivables ("other short term
assets") is overestimated by CFAF 3 billion, which lowers the company's
short term cash position. However, it will be specified in the performance
contract to be signed between OPTT and GOT that GOT should take
responsibility for the collection of this debt since diplomatic
intervention is the only remaining course of action. As a consequence,
about half of the debt, representing the portion accrued before 1987, would
be transferred onto GOT's books thus strengthening OPTT's cash position.
Projected Financial Performance
6.05     OPTT's projected financial performance from 1988 through 1993 is
given in Anrex 14, together with the related notes and assumptions.
Tariffs have been maintained at their 1988 level for analysis purposes.
The key indicators are shown below:



-23 -
Table 6.3:  Key Indicators of OPTT Projected Financial Performance
(CFAF million)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Operating revenues         8,147   8,625   9,034   9,701  10,900  11,969
(of which telecom)        7,434   7,787   8,118   8,785   9,813  10,882
Operating expenses         6,347   6,799   7,094   7,643   8,356   9,352
(of which telecom)        5,596   5,967   6,227   6,738   7,408   8,363
Net operating result       1,800   1,826   1,939   2,058   2,545   2,617
(of which telecom)        1,838   1,820   1,891   2,046   2,405   2,519
|       ~~Net income                1,800   1,156      773     664     832      779
Telecom private
;           rece4.vables               2,358   2,042   2,133   2,317   2,600   2,893
Long term debt             3,718   3,007   4,491   7,604  10,495  12,532
OPTT internal
cash generation           2,386   2,507   2,772   3,144   3,998   4,506
Debt service                   0   1,781      745     909   1,126   1,250
OPTT's rate of return (Z)    31        29      26      21       19      15
Long term debt/
debt + equity                34       25      31      40       44      45
Net internal cash
generation
(l.d.s.)/investment(Z)      Ido      50       50      40       60      60
DEL (no)                   9,600   9,800  10,000  13,000  16,000  19,200
Telephone rev./DEL
(CFAF 000)                  697     689      703     661      608     576
Private collection
rate (Z)                     80      25       88      90       92      92
6.06     OPTT's financial performance through 1993 would remain
satisfactory. The operating ratio would stabilize at around 78Z. While
the net assets position would triple, the debt-equity ratio would stay
beluw 50Z, which is adequate. The rate of return on net fixed assets would
decrease but remain above 15Z. It has been agreed during negotiations that
the rate of return shall not fall below this level.
6.07     The salient characteristics of the projected performsace are:
(a)  Revenue per line would fall to CFAF 545,000 from
707,000, but remain at a high level for Francophone West
Africa.
(b)  The collection rate is expected to improve progressively
to 92Z in 1992 and remain at that level thereafter. Bad
debts would nevertheless accumulate in absolute term to
CFAF 4.9 billion during the period 1988-93, and reduce
profitability accordingly. Government has been paying



- 24 -
its consumption in full but often with over a year of
delay. This burdens OPTT's cash position and amounts to
an interest free loan ti GOT. Government receivables
are expected to be gradually decreased to 70 days of
billing.
(c) Bad debts provisions are expected to decrease through:
(i) improvement in the collection rate (see (b)); and
(ii) reduction of foreign postal administration debt by
strict enforcement of the Kigali agreements which
regulate international money order transactions and
impose strict compensation rules;
(d) Over the life of the project CFAF 3.9 billion would be
transferred to Government through payment of various
taxes and duties. In the 'performance contract, a
provision has been introduced to keep OPTT's cash
position at a level sufficient to yield a current ratio
of at least 1.8, thus giving a practical limit to the
dividends payable in any given year.
Projected Financing Plan
6.08     The aggregate OPTT financing plan over the period 1989-93 is given
below:
Table 6.4: Proiected OPTT FinancinR Plan 1989-93
i(CFAF million)
Sources
Internal cash generation                16,927
less: debt service                     5,811
Net internal cash generation            11,116
Foreign borrowings                      11,700
Grants                                     840
Total                            23,656
Applications
Investment program                      20,370
Taxes and duties                         3,856
Variation in working capital             1,853
Variation in cash                       -2,423
Total                            23,656



- 25 -
6.09     OPTT's investment program for the coming five years (1989-1993)
includes ongoing works (CFAF 2 billion) the proposed project (CFAF 13.4
billion), a provision for additional future investment of CFAF 4.5 ' Ilion
and postal investments of CFAF 0.45 billion. The net internal cash
generated by OPTT would cover about 552 of the planned investment pr'.grala,
which would be sufficient to meet the local cost requirements estimated at
30? of total cost. Aggregate debt service coverage by internal cash
generation alone would be 2.9, which would be comfortable. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that OPTT would ensure that its net
internal cash generation in any one year would cover at least 351 of the
average yearly requirement for investment over that year and the succeeding
two years. OPTT's three-year investment program would be reviewed by IDA
annually together with its annual operating and capital budgets to ensure
their coherence with OPTT's financial objectives and capacity. OPTT would
undertake no new investment in excess of $1 million equivalent in the
sector during the project period without prior consultation with IDA.
Tariffs
6.10     Telecommunications tariffs in Togo have not been substantially
changed since 1981 when the base unit was increased to CFAP 50. Postal
tariffs were increased by 30Z beginning 1989. Tariffs for the main postal
and telecommunications servires are indicated in Annex 15. In 1987, a new
agreement was signed between -UPTT and Satelit whereby OPTT's share of
international revenue was increased from 50? to 65?, with OPTT remaining
the collecting agency. Since international revenue accounts for more than
twolthirds of total OPTT revenue, this new measure had a significant
positive impact on OPTT operating income which increased by 382 in 1987.
6.11     Present tariff levels are sufficient to provide an adequate return
on investmept and cover debt service. The financial resources transferred
to the government, although affected in the short term by the investment
program, will remain significant in the long term. The comparatively high
connection charges of CFAF 90,000 help compress the large unsatisfied
demand and will be kept at this high level at least during the first years
of network expansion to avoid an additional surge in demand. Their impact
on overall revenue is minimal.
6.12     However, th-ree main distortions can be observed in the current
tariff system: (i) international traffic represents only 10? of total
traffic but over 70? of revenue, making OPTT income highly sensitive to a
relatively small share of traffic; (ii) the domestic network is highly
congested during the day partly due to the absence of time-sensitive
tariffs; and (iii) tariffing is very distance-sensitive leading to eight
different tariffings in this small country. To address these issues, a
further study of tariffs will be conducted under the project with the
objective to simplify tariff structure and ensure its consistency with
broader economic concerns including a fair return on GOT's equity
contribution to OPTT. Agreement was reached at negotiations that said
study should be available and reviewed by IDA by December 1991, and agreed-
upon tariff changes implemented by December 1992.



- 26 -
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Return on Investment
7.01     The internal financial rate of return on OPTT's 1989-93 investment
is 25Z (Annex 16). However, the financial rate of return does not fully
reflect the economic benefits of the project: the value to the consumer of
the telephone service is in excess of the actual tariff and the economic
cost of the project is lower than the actual cost. Thus, the estimated
economic rate of return is 32Z (Annex 16). This is a conservative figure
since substantial external benefits accrue to the economy which are
difficult to quantify (paras 7.04 to 7.08).
Benefits
7.02     Togo is reaching a new phase of its economic development.  After a
period of forced austerity the country is again pursuing growth while
continuing its adjustment program. The third structural adjustment credit
approved by IDA in FY88 reflects this new airection. The present
telecommunications infrastructure is a bottleneck to efficient growth and
the proposed project will thus support the Government's structural
adjustment objectives.
7.03     The public sector will greatly benefit from the institutional
strengthening and commercialization of the post and telecommunications
sector to be implemented under the project. As such, the project will
introduce efficient management into an organization that generates over 6Z
of total government gross revenue and represents 6Z of total public
enterprise employment. Within the OPTT, the project will promote a more
realistic budgeting of operating expenditures and strict collection
procedures. It will also optimize resource transfers from OPTT to the
government. Lastly, the project will enhance coordination within the
administration, and between public departments and their private
counterpart. Hence policy implementation, administrative management, and
the general information flow needed for efficient monitoring, control and
adjustment will be facilitated.
7.04     Promotion of private sector initiative in industry and trade is a
major objective of the Togo's adjustment program. Lome is striving to
become a major transshipment point for the land-locked countries of the
Sahel (i.e. Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger) and, more generally, to become a
large export-import center for the region. Just like physical transport
facilitieis, telecommunications is important for the development of
commercial activities since flows of goods are always paralleled by flows
of information. Improved telecommunications services will benefit export
oriented ventures in particular in the agriculture sector. Increased
availability of telecommunications services will also promote activity in
the service sector. It will enable banks to be more active externally.
Indeed, Togo is developing into a regional banking center attracting large
non-resident deposits, partly because of its political stability.



- 27 -
Fiscal Impact
7.05     Up to the end of 1988, there had been no formal process of
resource transfer from OPTT to the Government. Nevertheless, prior to
1987, OPTT was taxed indirectly as all generated funds in excess of
internal financing of investment expenditures were automatically retained
by Government. Transfers in 1986 amounted to almost 25Z of revenue.
7.06     During the project implementation period, OPTT is expected to make
a formal contribution to the GOT budget (see para 6.07). GOT has taken the
decision to subject all commercially-oriented parastatals (EPIC) to private
fiscal law in order to emphasize their financial and institutional
autonomy. As such, OPTT will pay all custom duties, corporate taxes and
miscellaneous taxes applicable to private corporations as well as its debt.
In addition, OPTT can elect to pay yearly dividends to GOT in order to
provide GOT with a fair return on its initial equity contribution. The
OPTT Board will take the final decision as to how the yearly profits are
distributed but guidelines to that effect have been introduced in the
"performance contract' (para. 6.07(d)).
Least Cost Solution
7.07     Through cost-effective technical choices, the project represents
the least cost solution for providing the service levels planned.
Canalization of local telephone cable has been preferred over buried cable
or overhead cable for high volume sections of the network since the higher
capital cost would be more than offset by the discounted lower operating
and maintenance costs, and by fewer future outages. The choice of digital
switching and transmission technology over analog for new systems is
justified by a lower discounted cost per new DEL. Multi-access systems for
rural subsc;iber offer considerable economies over alternative solutions
and make expansion of access to the system feasible in many areas.
Risks
7.08     There are two principal risks of the project.  Firstly, poor
coordination and supervision of project implementation could lead to delays
and cost overruns. This risk has been minimized through close donor
coordination ensuring maximum coherence of different subprojects. It also
has been reduced by retaining a project management firm that will assist
OPTT in project supervision. Secondly, there is the risk that
inappropriate institutional structures and poor management could lead to
the dissipation of project benefits. This risk has been minimized by
agreement on plans of action for OPTT management improvement. GOT
commitment to sound commercial operations of OPTT will be secured through
signature of the 'performance contract." Other risks associated with
procurement and physical implementation are minimal due to advanced
preparation of the bidding documents and the use of turn-key contracts.



- 28 -
Environmental and Health Effects
7.09     The proposed project is expected to have no adverse environmental
or health effects. On the contrary, more efficient use of
telecommunications vould substitute for personal transportation and
correspondingly reduce environmental pollution and promote energy
conservation. Ir. addition, improved telecommunications services would
facilitate dispersion of health services and emergency care.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
8.01     During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a) GOT and OPTT will undertake to perform their respective
obligations under the performance contract, the
execution of which will be reviewed by June 30 of each
-ear (para 3.04) by all parties including IDA. GOT and
OPTT will implement promptly recommendations resulting
from the annual review;
(b) OPTT will prepare annual operating and capital budgets
covering at least the next fiscal year and furnish these
budgets to IDA for review and comment no Later than one
month before the beginning of each fiscal year
(para 6.09);
(c) Starting fiscal year 1989, audited accounts together
with an appropriate mailagement report will be prepared
by OPTT within six months of the end of the fiscal year
and sent to IDA (para 3.15). Audits of SOEs will be
submitted with audited financial statements (para 5.14);
(d) OPTT will be required to report progress against
physical indicators and billing and collection targets
in quarterly progress reports to be submitted to IDA
within one month of the end of the quarter (para 5.17);
(e) OPTT will ensure that its net internal cash generation
in any one year covers at least 352 of the average
requirement for investment over that year and the
succeeding two years (para 6.09);
(f) OPTT will review its three year rolling investment
program for telecommunications with IDA on an annual
basis (para 6.09);



- 29 -
(g)  OPTT will undertake no new investment in excess of $1
million equivalent in the telecommunications sector
during the project period without prior consultation
with IDA (para 6.09);
(h)  OPTT shall earn an annual return on average net fixed
assets of not less than 15X (para 6.06);
(i)  By July 31, 1990, Government will revise OPTT statute to
reflect the new PE manage1nent principles being
introduced in the general PE reform under SAL III
(para 3.05);
(j)  OPTT shall adopt new staff rules by June 30, 1990
(para 3.09);
(k)  OPTT shall complete and review with IDA a tariff study
by December 31, 1991 and implement any agreed upon
tariff changes by December 31, 1992 (para 6.12);
(1)  OPTT shall complete the human resource study and review
its conclusions with IDA by December 31, 1990 and
implement the agreed upon recommendations according to a
timetable acceptable to IDA (para 3.09); and
(m)  GOT and OPTT will secure AfDB financing by December 31,
1990 (para 5.10).
Furthermore OPTT agreed with IDA on the schedule for evaluation and award
of contract-for the local network subproject.
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness
8.02     The following are the conditions for credit effectivenesss
(a)  finalization and signature of the performance contract
by GOT and OPTT (para 3.04);
(b)  signature of the subsidiary loan between GOT and OPTT at
an interest rate of 7.652, amortized over 17 years
inclusive of a five-year grace period (para 5.09);
(c)  effectiveness of the loan agreement with EIB
(para 5.09); and
(d)  signature of the contract for the Lome and Kara local
network (para 5.13).
Recommendation
8.03     With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 12.4 million on standard terms with 40
years maturity.



- 30 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Basic Data - Togo Telecommunications
Situation at December tl
1985     1986     1987    1988
Telephone
Number of automatic switching centers           9         9          9         9
Total installed capacity in
centers (lines)                          9,687    10,687    10,687    10,687
Average utilization of capacity (Z)            87        79         86        90
Number of DELs                             8,455      8,455     9,221      9,595
Average annual increase in DELss
for 1985-88 (Z)                              3          3         3          3
Length of radio relays:
960 channels (km)                          148        148       148        148
Dittos  300 channels                       281.8      281.8     281.8      281.8
Total length of pairs in transmission
cables (km)                              1,068      1,068     1,068      1,068
Ditto:  junction cable (km)              133,842   133,842   133,842   133,842
Telegraphs and Telex
Number of telegraph offices                     1         1          1         1
Number of telex offices                         1         1          1         1
Number of telex switching centers               1         1          1         1
Total installed capacity (lines)           1,449      1,449     1,449      1,449
Number of telex subscribers                  336        389       428        489
Average annual increase:  1985-88 (Z)          11        11         11        11
International Circuits
Total.
by satellite                                88        100       116        129
by microwave                                44         44        44         44
Telephone circuits                            88        100       116        129
Telegraph circuits                              6         6          6         6
Telex circuits                                 68        69        69         72
Leased circuits                                12        13         13        16
Center capacity in Lome: 8,280.



31 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
1985     1986     1987    1988
Traffic
Total number of pul3es (in millions)
registered by subscribers' impulse
meter over the last 12 months
(local, interurban and international
g       ~~automatic telephone traffic)            4,453      4,627     5,509      5,824
International telephone calls,
originating (minutes charged)        4,228,385 4,780,549 5,127,200 5,846,654
Interurban telexes (minutes charged)    813,906   828,577   868,842   832,626
Staff
Staff numbers:
-  Telecommunications                       537        553       561        565
^ Postal and financial services             433        422       423        450
-  Common services                          141        147       148        160
-  Total                                  1,111      1,122     1,132      1,175
Staff number per 1,000 DELs
(telecommunications
and 602 of common services)                 74         76        70         71
General
Telephone revenue
(in million of CFAF)                     4,720     5,400      5,785     6,366
Telexitelegraph revenue
(in million of CFAF)                       692        847       850       870
Total revenue 11
(in million of CFAF)                     6,251     7,074      7,300     8,159
luvestment in telecommunications
(in million of CFAF)                       490        400       700     1,200
GDP (in billions of CFAF)                    948        980       996      1,036
GDFCF (in billions of CFAF)                  218        274       226        215
Exports f.o.b. (in billions of CFAF)          371       275       262        295
Imports c.i.f. (in billions of CFAF)         413        379       324        323
Investments/GDP Z                           0.05       0.04      0.07        0.1
Investments/GDFCF Z                          0.2        0.1       0.3        0.5
Revenues/GDP 2                               0.6        0.7       0.7        0.8
11 Includes other telecoms revenues.
Note: Average price deflator (100 = 1980)
Exchange rate (300 CFAF = $1)



- 32 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Comparative Telecommunications Datall
Francophone
Togo      West Africa       Costa Rica2/
Penetration 31                      0.31         0.28              8.00
Investment/GDP           Z         0.14          0.51              0.60
Consumption/GDP          Z         2.10                            1.90
Network growth           Z          3.00
Net fixed assets/DEL    $       1,74.00
Revenue/DEL              $     2,009.00      1,502.00          1,237.00
Operating cost/DEL       $     1,053.00      1,017.00            277.00
Staff/1,000 DELs        No.       71.00         97.00              9.00
Staff cost/DEL           $       200.00        357.00             NA
Revenue/Staff cost    Times        10.00         4.20             NA
Rate of return           Z        35.00                           NA
Receivables4/          Days      120.00                           NA
Memo
Population            Million      3.10         53.50              2.60
GDP/capita (av)          $       250.00        420.00          1,480.00
Total DELs              No.    9,595.00   174,023.00         214,706.00
Countries               No.         1.00         7.00              1.00
Notes:
1/  1986 unless otherwise stated.
2/  Middle income economy of similar size and population than Togo.
3/ Expressed as number of direct exchange lines (DELs) per 100 population.
4/ For private sector customers.



- 33 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECONMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Comparative Postal Services
(Base 1987)
Countries                       Benin    Niger      Togo      Mali   Rwanda
Basic Indicators
Population (mln)                     4.2      6.6      3.1         8      6.3
Post offices                          62       45       35        99       29
P.O. boxes                     14,000 +        NA   16,000    5,500    5.300
home delivery
Global staff (Post +              1,090       680      470       740      370
common services OPT)
Estimated traffic (mln)              6.3      3.9       6.4      4.7      5.8
(pieces of mail posted
in the country in mln)
Ratios
Population/Post office           68,000  147,000   89,000   81,000  218,000
Staff/Post office                    18        15       13         7       13
Items posted/Inhabitants            1.5        .6        2        .6        .9
Traffic/Staff                     5,800    5,800   13,500    6,300   15,700
Revenues/Charges                      .7      .65     1.06       .77     1.16
Nota: Caution should be used with those comparators since they may not
always cover precisely the same activity (e.g., relative importance
of financial services within Postal Sector).



- 34-                                 ANNEX 3
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Demand Forecast and Satisfaction.Rate
Global Demand
Horizon
Annee           1988    1989    1990      19911/  1992   1993   199521
Global demand    22,450  24,490  26,715  29,405  32,400  35,790  40,000
Installed         10,338  10,338  10,338  17,486  22,900  22,900  32,000
capacity
Connected          9,600   9,800  10,100  13,000  16,000  19,200  26,000
capacity
Demand (Z)            43      40       38      44       50      53       65
satisfaction
1/ Availability of new equipment.
2/ Objective for demand satisfaction is 701 in 1995.



- 35 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Performance Contract
Between the Government of the Togolese Republic
and the Office of Post and Telecommunications
PREAMBLE
1.      'With a view to improving the management of the post and
telecommunications sector by exempting it from compliance with the
regulations governing the Central Administration and the financial
constraints of the General St.te Budget, by Decree No. 86/190 of September
17, 1986 the Government created the Office of Post and Telecommunications
of Togo (OPTT), herein below referred to as the 'Office," to manage and
modernize the telecommunications and postal system.
2.       The autonomy of management granted by the State requires in return
that the Office implement rigorous financial management procedures, meet a
profitability target enabling the sector to develop on a sound footing and
participate directly through taxation in the economic development of Togo.
For its part, the State undertakes to respect the principles of financial
independence that led it to accord the Office autonomy of management, in
virtue of and within the limits of current legislation and decrees
governing public enterprises.
3.       This performance contract seeks to specify:
(a) the targets set for the Office by the State regarding
the provision of public service, quality of service,
internal management and profitability;
(b) the means made available by the State to the Office so
that it can attain those targets; and
(c) the regulations governing the relations between the
Office and the State.
4.       The contract shall have a life of three years, equivalent to the
investment programming interval. The Government of the Togolese Republic
and the Office of Post and Telecommunications of Togo now hereby agree as
follows:



- 36 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8
CHAPTER I
CONTRACTUAL TARGETS SET FOR THE OFFICE
Article 1. Service and Production Targets
1.1      Telecommunications
The objectives for connection of lines and total lines in service
are:
1990         1991          1992
Lines in service                       10,000        13,000       16,000
Lines connected during the year         1,000         6,000        3,800
1.2      Postal Services
The Post Office shall establish a three-year development plan by
1990 that includes its financial services.
Article 2. Quality of Service Targets
2.1      Telecommunications
The Office shall continue its efforts to improve the technical
quality of its services, with the following targets:
1990         1991          1992
Repair rate                                80            85            88
within 48 hours (Z)
Completion rate for local call (Z)         60            65            70
Completion rate for long-distance
calls (Z)                                40            45           60
2.2      Postal Services
The Office shall establish a simple statistical system for traffic
metering and the regular measurement of delivery periods, using it to
control the achievement of the following targets:



- 37 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 8
1990         1991          1992
Delivery for domestic mail
(95Z of total):
-  Lome                            next day      next day      next day
-  Interior                         4th day       3rd day       3rd day
Lost mail rate:
-  Lome                                  To be set by the development
-  Interior                                   plan (Article 1.2)
Article 3. Investment Targets
3.1      Telecommunications
The Office shall implement the telecommunications investment
program shown in Annex 1.
3.2      Postal Services
The targets for investment in postal services shall be specified
in 1990, after a studyr of the proposals made by the Office (Article 1.2).
Article 4. Commercial Objectives
4.1      Teleconmunications
The Office shall improve the quality of its customer management,
with the following targets:
1989      1990       1991      1992
Collection rate (X)                         85        88         90         92
Accumulated accounts receivable for
the current year (on the balance
sheet)*/                           110 days  100 days   90 days   80 days
*/ In billing days.
The Office shall further help the State better define and control
its demand for telephone services (incoming calls only, PABX, etc.).



-38 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
4.2      Postal Services
The Office shall increase:
(a) its market share for EMS service; and
(b) the volume of mail handled.
The precise numerical targets shall be specified during the
formulation of the development plan (Article 1.2).
Article 5. Management Targets
The Office shall adapt its administrative and financial management
to its new commercial responsibilities, with the follcwing targets:
(a) introduction in 1989 of a budget preparation procedure
based on the precise costing of services and products;
(b) beginning in 1991, presentation of a budget, in
accordance with the new procedure;
(c) beginning in 1990, quarterly issue of financial
statements including: execution of operating and
investment budgets, financing plan, statement of
accounts receivable and payable with aging analysis,
collection rate, payment rate, personnel productivity;
and
(d) preparation of financial statements (operating, profit
and lss, balance sheet) and their audit in accordance
with the following timetable:
1989      1990      1991       1992
Financial statements for the year    May 90  April 91  April 92   April 93
Audit                                July .90   June 91   June 92    June 93
Article 6. Personnel
The Office shall submit a human resource development plan by the
end of 1989. The targets for improving the productivity of
telecommunications personnel shall be as follows;
1990         1991          1992
Personnel per 1,000 lines                  65            55             50



- 39 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 8
The productivity targets for postal services shall be specified in
the development plan in terms of two indicators2 (i) the number of objects
handled per agent; and (2) turnover/wage bill.
Article 7. Financial Targets
Regarding financial targets, the Office shall:
(a) during each fiscal year generate a pre-tax operating
profit equal to at least 202 of turnover;
(b) generate a net internal cash flow covering at least 352
of annual investment needs calculated ori the basis of
the next three years; and
(c) reduce accounts receivable in accordance with the
following timetable?
1989        1990        1991         1992
Amount in billing days          180 days    150 days   120 days   100 days
(d) beginning in PY92, generate and maintain a return of at
least 152 on net fixed assets in service.
CHAPTER II
RESPECTIVE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
OF THE STATE AND THE OFFICE
Article 8. Opening Balance Sheet
The State hereby approves the opening balance sheet of the Office,
as established by the Interministerial Commission and revised by the
auditing firm. A consolidated of said balance sheet is given in Annex 3.
Claim and debts with foreign postal administrations prior to
January 1, 1987 shall remain with the State. The payment and recovery of
claims and debts created since that date shall be the responsibility of the
Office. Nevertheless, the Office, as the correspondent for foreign
governments, shall monitor payments of debts and collections of claims
created prior to 1987. The Office shall debit or credit the State oi the
amount uf such operations.
In 1989, the State shall pay the amounts due the Office in
accordance with the timetable in Annex 3 of this Contract.



-40 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 8
Article 9. Measures to Ensure the Financial Equilibrium of Postal Services
The State shall support the Office in the implementation of the
Kigali IV accords with all Governments of countries that exchange postal
money orders with Togo. The Office shall limit money order claims on
foreign governments in payment arrears to CFAF 50 million.
The equivalent of at least two-thirds of the average month-end
balance of CCP (postal checking) assets for the preceding quarter shall be
deposited by the Office in term accounts with the BCEAO or reliable
commercial banks.
Article 10. Regulations Governing the Use of OPTT Services by the State
and Parapublic Agencies
The State shall make appropriations in the General Budget to cover
the estimated expenditures of government entities. These estimates shall
be made in conjunction with the Office on the basis of real consumption in
the previous year. The State shall support the measures that the Office
sees fit to take in order to remain within budget limits.
The State shall pay for its postal, telephone and telex
consumption within a maximum of three months after receipt of the invoices.
Should payment not be made within that period, the Office may take measures
to reduce the telephone service of the public entities in payment arrears.
The State moreover shall examine with the Office means of canceling out
reciprocal claims between themselves.
The State shall settle its debts created after 1987 in accordance
with the timetable in Arnex 3.
For invoicing and collection associated with parapublic agencies
the Office shall implement the provisions governing private enterprises.
Article 11. Compensation for Obligations of General Interest Imposed by
the State on the Office
If the State imposes an obligation of general interest on the
Office resulting in additional expenditures or reducing its revenues, the
cost shall be established previously with the Board of Directors in
conjunction with the requesting Ministry, and financial compensation shall
be made to the Office in the form and manner determined on a case-by-case
basis. In particular, such compensation may be a deduction from the claims
of the State on the Office.
Article 12. Rates
12.1     Telecommunications
In 1991 the Office shall propose a new rate structure for
telecommunications with a view to a better fit of revenues and cost of
services along with improved use of long-distance and international links.
New international rates shall also be proposed to reflect changes in
international traffic.



- 41 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 8
12.2     Postal Services
In 1990 the Office shall propose a new streamlined rate structure
for postal services with a view to improving collections and better
covering the real cost of providing the services.
12.3     General Provisions for Pricing
Each year the office shall propose to the Board of Directors a a
revised rate schedule justified by a financial analysis of the preceding
fiscal year, financial projections over a three-year period and changes in
international tariff rates.
The State shall promptly authorize the introduction of the new
rates duly justified nu the Office so that it can attain and comply with
the financial targets set in this Contract.
Article 13. Financing of Office Investments for 1989-1992
13.1     External loans
In accordance with the conditions set in conjunction with the
financing agencies, the State shall onlend to the Office the loans secured
to develop the post and telecommunications sector.
13.2     Self Financing of the Office
The Office shall limit its long-term borrowings (i.e. any new
debts with a maturity of more than one year) to 60Z of permanent capital.
The target for investment self financing between l9e9 and 1992 is set at
35Z.  For each,year the net cash-flow shal  be at least twice the amount of
debt service.
At all times the Office shall keep liquidities in sufficient
amount to have a current ratio (i.e., current assetslcurrent liabilities)
of no less than 1.8.
The State agrees not to take any decisions tending to thwart the
attainment of the foregoing targets.
13.3     Consistency of Office and SATELIT Budgets
The Board shall ensure consistency of the annual operating and
investment budgets submitted by OPTT and SATELIT.
Article 14. Taxation
The Office shall be subject to the taxation measures applicable to
public entities of an industrial or commercial nature as defined under
current legislation, The Office shall enjoy tax benefits if applicable for
its investments planned for 1989-1992.



- 42 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 8
Article 15. Institutional Development
The Office shall explore institutional restructuring of the sector
to improve the management of human, technical and financial resources.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 16. Performance Indicators
So that target performance under this Contract can be assessed,
each fiscal year the Office shall calculate the monitoring indicators
listed in Annex 2 and provide the corresponding values for previous fiscal
years.
Article 17. Monitoring Procedure for Contract Implementation
17.1     Monitoring Committee and Appointment of a Rapporteur
The Board shall monitor implementation of this Contract, have an
annual evaluation report prepared by a commission consisting of a
representative of the Office, a representative of the supervisory ministry
and a representative of the Finance Ministry, which shall be submitted to
three Government so that if necessary it can take measures in accordance
with the herein Contract or any other provisions enabling its
implementation.
The State and Office shall furnish to the commission all
information, documents and explanation necessary for the formulation of the
evaluation reports, which shall in particular highlight divergences between
the targets and attainments, analyze the causes for such divergences and
propose corrective measures.
Date and signatures,  Done in Lome on
For the Office of Post and Telecommunications of Togo
by                                    , Minister of Infrastructure and Post
and Telecommunications
by                                    , Minister of the Economy and Finance
by                                    , Minister of Industry and State-Owned
Companies



_ 43 _                     ANNEX S
Page 1 of 4
REPUBL!.; OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Action Plans for Institutional imrovement
1.       Three action plans have been established addressing the following
issuess
(a) strengthening of the institutional framework;
(b) definition and formalizing of the relationship OPTT-GOT;
and
(c) improvement of OPTT management.
2.       Progress in the execution of the plans will be reviewed regularly
based on quarterly reports to be produced by OPTT. The major milestones of
the plans include:
- TOR for the required technical assistance;
- MIS system (simple and manual);
-  Performance contract;
- Human resource development plan; and
-  audited accounts.



Measures                    Objectives                           Milestone/Timeframe                            Romarks
I   STRENGTHENING THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
1.  Organization          Implementation of the           (1)  Signature of the O.M. decision         General strengthening of the orga-
chart                 organlzatlon chart                  organlzing divisions, subdivisions    nization, with clear definition of
adopted by the Board                and maintenance center, Oct. 1988.    responsibilitios allowing proper
on March 16, 1988.            (ll)  Hiring of a Director of Coumon         execution and monitoring of the
Affairs, Jan. 1989.                    investment program.
(ii)  Hiring of a Chief Accountant,
Jan. 1989.
(Iv) Implementation of Budget Control.
Hiring of a Division Chief,
2nd half of 1989.
(v)  Strengthening of the organization
according to each director's plan.
2.  Job descriptlon       Write job descriptilon for          Juno 1989.  To be ready before tho
key positions (Diroctors,           start of the human resource study.
Division Chiefs) and
detall organization of
division and sections.
S.  Sector                Improve overall sector              Study to be undertaken by end of        IDA financed.
restructuring         efficlency.                         1989 In viow of a partial sector
restructurlng In 1990 and a
further one end of 1992.
II.  RELATIONSHIP OOT-OPTT
1.  Performance           Performnce contract In          (1)  Initial draft, Oct. 7, 1988.
contract              place for monitoring the       (1i)  revised draft, Dec. 17, 1988.
execution of the             (il)  Final draft, March 10, 1989.
investmnt progrm.             (Iv)  Final version presonted to board       Conditions of negotiations for IDA.
Should Include:                     by May 1, 1989.
- technical and financial      (v)  Document executed before  nd 1989.    Conditions of effectivoness for IDA
objectives;                                                              credit.
- OT's obligations; and
- schedule payment for
arrears.
0



II. IMPROVEMENT OF OPTT MANAGEMENT
1.  Financitl             Improve financial
management            manageomnt:
- audit of the opening         (1)  CCCE financing.  Auditors selected    Conditlons of negotiations for IDA
balance shoot and of             and of Feb.  Audit beginning March    credlt.
1987 accounts.                    1998. Reports ready in May 1989.
- audit of 1988 accountn.    (ll)  Samo miscion ao above. Roport
- Improvoment of expertsen,         ready In August.
procedures and             (ttt)  Hiring for 2 years of a technical      FAC financing.
structures for:                   c assistant (Jan. 1989) as Chlif
o audit,                         Accountantk
e accounting,              (v)  Computerization of accounting and        CCCE financing.
o treasury,                      budget monitoring, lt half 1989.
* MIS, and                   (v)  MIS systm for finance implemented    CCCE financing.
* Budget mnagement.              by 3rd quarter 1989.
- Tariff study.               (VI)  Implementation of budget control
divlison by 4th quarter 1989.
(vii)  TOR available by end of 19b.           IDA financing.
2.  Comon Affairs         Human resource
- Developomnt plan.            (l)  Consultant selected.  Study to         CCCE financing.
start June 1989. Conclusions
by end 1980.
- Computerized pay.           (ii)  Awarded.  Completed by end 1989.       CCCE financing.
- New personnel Statute      (1ii)  Being reviowed by the Board to be      Conditions of effectlivness for IDA        4>
with revised salary              adopted by end 1989.                    crdit. 
structure.
Logistic              - Improvemnt of Inventory    (l)  Technical assistant hired Oct. 1988.  FAC financed.
procedures.
- Pestructuring of
warehouse.
- Computerlzatlon.            (ii)  TOR completed by June 1989.            IDA financing.
Administration        Strengthen current
structure:
- procurement unit,          (iii)  June 1989.
- further reinforcemet.
S. Telecommunications    Technical m*nagement            (l)  Set up a planning unit Including
- planning,                        financial projections.
- maintenance,                (11)  Maintenance restructuring studied      IDA financing.
- subscriber managment.            by Srd quart. 1989.  Reform In 1990.
(lit) Subscriber manageamst system to be
toplemented as part of project.
0



Demand                                               (;)  Demand survey to be undertaken
before 1M0.
Customer management   - Computerized billing         (i)  Contract award In Sept. 1988.          CCCE financing.
lmplemented In 1989.
- Improvement of              (II)  Technical assistance from ICEA.        CCCE financing.
collection.
4.  Monitoring of the      - Reinforcement of             (1)  Tasks description by March 1989,       TA recruited on IDA approved TOR
Investment program      monitoring strUctW'os.            tralinig In 3rd A 4th quart. 1989.    and financed by PPF.
- Implementatnion of          (ii)  Implementation In ard quart. 1989.
monitoring system.
5.  M1S                   MIS Including finance,          (1)  definition and lmplemntation of       CCCE financing.
personnel mad operations           a finance MIS, 2nd half 1989.
(ii) Operations MISs TOR completed In
March i98o. Implementation 2nd
quartr 1989.
S. D&ta processing        Creation data processing       (1) Nomination of computer operations
divlsion.                          mnager In Feb. 1989.
(I1) Nomination of computer project
coordinator in April 1989.
7. Post l                 - Statistics lnformtlon        (1)  TOR completed on March 27.
systea  on maIl flows.     (1I)  Implementation of phas   1, 2,         IDA financing.
- MIS Including financ             and 8 b  February 1990.
personnel and operations. (111)  Phas 4  tudy to be completed
- Iplement a planning and          by June 1990.
budgeting function.
- Competitiv analysis of
mail and financtal
sorvices.
- Co merciaIlation of
a Postl entity.
II
0
Ph,
z-



ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
CONSEIL OAONMSTRATIONI
COISIL D'"AlWS14A1*
SIMtC13U 66984 *O
flEcUUa G(MI*L &Dow?
outciu@w                                oinaIctios  KSl                         SIRICviU  Pu"m*ColoE         @IAEC?#Owt 0
Ks5 9413                               ?IAC@haUCAlWwS                              at COMPTASLI            &PPMUEIs c0U14JN(
la,  a                                                                                                             fo~~~~~~~~~a   
I                                     _        _~                                    --   -         ~             wszezexz (ewt4
_~~~~~                               aa 's
_~~~~~~~~~~~                                   r na a" c



- 48 -                            ANNEX 7
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Staff Summary at August 31, 1988
------------Directorate-----------
Function             Category        Common    Post    Telecom    Total
Services
Executives                    ATE                                3          3
Engineers, Administrators    A1                4        4        5         13
Operation Enginaer,
Inspector                   A2              6        13       21         40
Supervisors                   B               5        27       45         77
Operation staff               C                7       42       27         76
Technical staff               D                1       68       59        128
Skilled workers               AGTS          132       292      395        819
Permanent
Temporary workers             AGTS             5        4       10         19
Temporary                                1
Total                                 160       450      565     1,175



- 49 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Project Description
General
1.       In 1986, OPTT prepared a medium term telecommunications investment
program for 1987-1995, drawing upon the studies and recommendations of the
UNDP/ITU Master Plan for telecommunications development. The prcgram is
based on moderate forecast of demand growth (averaging about 92 per year
over the period). In total, it envisages about tripling current telephone
service capacity of 11,000 exchange lines to about 34,000 lines by 1995,
together with high capacity interconnection of the main economic centers
and moderate penetration of service into rural areas. This should enable
satibfaction of demand for telephone service to increase from 502 in 1988
to about 75Z in 1996. In addition, automatic telephone, telex and data
services will be available within the main economic centers of the country.
Total estimated cost of OPTT's medium term program is about CFAF 24 billion
(US$80 million) including price and physical contingencies.
2.       Considering the importance of the program and the constraints
prevailing in its financing and execution, OPTT and the Togolese Government
decided to phase its implementation by focussing on short term priority
works for the period 1989-93. Limited works were already undertaken in
1987-88 pendin; confirmation of the proposed program and its financing.
These are ongoing and include current rehabilitation and maintenance
improvement activities, computerization of OPTT's billing and accounting
systems and technical assistance to strengthen management and operation.
About 12,000 additional lines of modern digital equipment would be
installed by 1992 under the short-term initial phase (1989-92), mostly
covering priority requirements in the Lome and Kara regions and providing
for backbone interconnection between them. A similar expansion of about
12,000 lines of the local networks and the interconnection of the four
other administrative regions of the country would follow by 1995 under the
subsequent phase (1993-95). These future works would also include
replacement of most existing unexpandable analog switching and transmission
installations by more efficient digital systems organized as a nation wide
integrated network for telephone, telex, data and other specialized
services.
3.       The project consists of the new works of OPTT's short term program
to be executed over the period 1989 to 1993. The project mainly aims at
the development of telephone facilities in the cities of Lome and Kara as
well as in the neighboring regional and rural areas where unsatisfied
demand is the largest. It also improves long distance services between
these two regions. Under the project, digital technology will be
progressively introduced and maintenance and operation of existing and new
facilities will be improved. Simultaneously, major emphasis is placed on



- 50 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
institutional development and improvement of management. Technical
assistance is planned to strengthen OPTT's administration and financial
management, development planning and execution, operations and maintenance.
Details of the various project components are summarized below.
Local Telephone Networks
4.       Local Telephone Switchings
(a) Lome - The existing 8,000 lines crossbar exchange
installed in 1980 is saturated. In addition to local
switching, it provides the national transit function
between Lome and eight other cities where small crossbar
exchanges (with capacities ranging 150 to 260 lines) are
in operation. Due to obsolete technology, no expansion
can be planned economically. A new 10,000 lines digital
exchange (with 20,000 lines final capacity) will be
installed including one main 5,000 subscribers switch and
three distant subsidiary digital units in Cacavelli
(12 kms), Hedjaranawoe (9 kms), and Lome-port (7 kms)
with 2,500, 1,500 and 1,000 subscriber capacities,
respectively. The new exchange will also ensure the
national transit and the international transfer functions
for the new digital equipment in the Lome and Kara
region. The existing crossbar exchange will be
maintained in operation and equipped with additional
junctors to interwork with the new digital facilities.
(b) Kara - The existing 260 lines crossbar exchange is not
expandable. It will be replaced by a new 2,500 line
digital exchange (with 5,000 line final capacity)
including one main 2,000 subscriber switch and three
distant subsidiary digital units in Bassar (70 kms),
Nyamtougou (30 kms), and Pya (20 kms) with 250,125 and
125 subscriber capacities, respectively. A transit
functlon will also be introduced in Kara so that the
traffic between the enlarged Kara region and Lome is
routed directly onto the new digital microwave link.
Traffic from the other northern and central regions would
be added at a later stage.
5.       Local Cable Networks:  The local cable networks and outside plants
for subscriber lines in Lome and Kara and in the six subsidiary exchange
areas will be redesigned to accommodate the new demand and expanded to meet
requirements to year 2010. This project component comprises civil work
construction of ducts and installation of cable systems for the primary and
secondary levels of the local distribution networks. It also includes
civil work for interexchange junctions of the four centers in Lome. The
civil work is planned for up to 30,000 pairs dimensioned to requirements to
year 2010, the cabling for up to about 16,000 subscribers. Capacities are
prorated to the exchange line capacities in each area.



-51-                          ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
6.       Interexchante Local Transmission*
(a)  In Lome - The urban junctions between the new digital
exchange in Lome center and its three subsidiary units
will be realized with optical fiber cables using 2134
Megabites/digital transmission (up to 1,000 equivalent
voice channels) with no decoding between the exchange
processors. Introduction of this new technology into the
greater Lome network is economical due to the drastic
reduction of optical fiber cost and enables end-to-end
digital transmission thus improving quality of service.
This represents four optic fiber cables equipped with 34
Megabites systems on about 35 km. total length, the
longest cable being 11.4 kms between Lome center and
Cacavelli.
(b)  In Kara:  Similarly, the junctions between the new
digital exchange in Kara and its three distant subsidiary
units will be realized on microwave systems using 2/8
Megabites digital transmission (up to 240 equivalent
voice channels) on (1 + 1) stand-by links.  All links
will use an existing radio relay station at Agolmanboura
near Kara, and from there reach the three subcenters.
The total number of radio hops will be seven.
Long Distance Transmission
7.       The long distance transmission component under the project
principally includes the construction of a new large capacity microwave
link between the Lome and Kara main exchanges (400 kms). It will comprise
ten hops using_five existing and four new radio relay stations. The link
will be equipped with 2 X 34 Megabites systems (about 2,000 equivalent
voice channels maximum) on duplicate (1 + 1) main radio beams. This will
also enable end-to-end digital transmission between the transit units of
the two exchanges. Spare capacity will be available for future expansion
of the networks in the maritime and central/northern regions of the country
under the subsequent phase of OPTT's investment program.
8.       Simultaneously, the existing analog long distance transmission
network will be reorganized and improved to cope with the national and
international traffic increase expected from the network expansion in the
two main cities and economic zones of the country.
Rural Network
9.       This component is a start-up project to expand telecommunications
services to rural areas in the two important regions of Lome and Kara. It
includes the construction of 15 multi-access digital UHF/VHF radio systems
with total capacity of about 450 subscribers. These systems will provide
service to rural areas through private lines or public call offices (PCOs)
in distant and isolated locations. Seven systems would be in the Maritime
(Lome) enlarged region and eight in the Kara province. Each system will be
directly connected to one new digital exchange in its area, thus enabling
full automatic national and international service. Capacities of ach
system will range between 16 to 60 lines.



-52 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
Support Facilities and Spares
10.      Under the project, spare parts, specialized equipment for
workshops and stores, tools, testing and support equipment and vehicles for
maintenance, common services and subscriber line connections are included
to improve operation and maintenance of the networks and to train staff.
Technical Assistance
11.      The technical assistance provided under the project concerns
principally:
(a) For Project Preparation and Execution: to help OPTT's
project planning and implementation structures cope with
the project, consultancy has been provided for documents
preparation, tender issuance, detailed design and will be
retained for management and supervision of project
implementation and systems acceptance. The technical
assistance also includes the provision of training
services for technical staff in charge of the new
installations and professional staff in charge of the new
systems' operation and maintenance.
(b) For Institutional Development and Management Improvement:
A summary description of the technical assistance for
institutional development and management improvement is
given in Annex 10.



REWeLIC OF TC
OFFICE OES POOS  ET TEaUWNICATIbS DU TOM tDPIT
1MVESTMFIT,M C106Tt98-19M
TOTAL       COFIJNACI80
CP    T F             r        T    L   F4   T      LT 1T              L        1        7        S    T  L     M  fl      T     A  1. DTHRi
(S NIL)
1. Nettork rehabilitation    30  260   28o   40  200   240   70   170  240   100  160   200    40    60   100  280   860  1.140 0.92  2.86   3.60
and Hai ntenance
2. Inforaatice                10   78   86    10   45    a5                                                                 20    20    140 0.07  0.40   0.47
8. Technical Aaietance I   12                               $6 II                                                               .1C    120 LZ  LM   941
Subtoa 1                 41  3840    66  25   850              5  15           1 1i   X   I5 5   75   sl20  1                       14    1    30   4.6           CCCE/FAC/OPFT
1.    1       R^icn Networks
(s) Local networke (16.000 p)
Ciil works            110  200  310   216   284   430  230  310  840  184  216   400    10    10    20  750    970  1720 2.80 8.28  8.78                        CPrT
- Cable and line        80  240  270    90  820   610   82  738  820   72  628   700    26   184   180  800  2280  2880  1.00 7.60   8.60  (6.60)MA
eulpmeant
Switching (12.00 Iinew)                   229   816   845  171  697  868   S0  788    b58    35   140    175  485  1938  2423 1.61  6.46   8.07                   oS
tc) Transmision                                S0  260   310   40  280   820   10   60    70                               100   600   700 0.83 2.00  2.8i            bB
(i ntereschange
A region.l Junctions)
d bbuldin,a                 10          10   30    10    40   20    10   30                                                eo    20    eo 0.20 0.07  0.27            OPTT
F2 Pwer inatellationa       -                 -    9     -             9    1                                                    R     -           f                 WOT?
Subtotal               10  40  60    613  138   1965  64  20   2608  831  1781  2082    71   804   S75  1710  s0   7?6  5.69 1.   2.1O
2. Lomd-Kara Microwave Link
"Tenission H    Hltpiax,                     7   150   17    74  290  864   79  362   461            6    100   105   165   92   1087 O.55   .00  8.63             AfIO/OPTT               U
Rower A Incteilation r
Equipment)
S. Rural Networks
Lom6 Region   Swyat-a)                         8   70    78   30  140  170    2 90    82                                   40   240   2800 0.13 0.0   0.93
Subtota                                    870 78 a   2I 2e                        0 :14 I#                 l              la 11 0            "                  cmA
4. IKte l leneoe equipment,  10   20   80   25    80   105   25   100  125   30   80    110    10    10    20  100   290   390 0.33 0.97   1.30  (O.90)10A/OPTT
vehicles A stor" for
inteannec. co_n
merwiceo A rehabilitation
S. Iitu nal Devaloamnt
C  Englnearing Coneuitancy   20   70    90   S0   120   160   40  160  200   80   140   170    10    80    40   10    52O  e60  0.44  1.78   2.17  (2.00)
b) lbnaemnt Cnalt ncy                          0  170   220   25   90  115   20   60    6o 0               10        1S  100   330    430 0.38  1.10   1.43  MO.d
CeTraining                                                                                                                                  O      .
Sbubt'"0al                                                                                 Ali  Af  IE  11 A  A     io ;M                             LB i EX)MA/CCC E ||ii/CO>O
PRoacT TOTAL OSA  COST      ZaQ   40   Zn   zgp 210t   2          32 W      Illi  6m  212    2Q    12    48    MI 23              Q    U20  L1L           LMA  Z13O10
6. Cot.fnci
{*) Phyicl                   1i   42    5 68    4   142   196  104  172  278   46   154   200           10    s0    40  280   580   7 00.77 1.68   2.60
tb)   PrOcn   COST          919   112          60  124   214  191 239  410  212 n1 h210    47    1Z                 l      i24  10    1M    27      .    30 S2S
S".                                       tel ;f ff  inS S  I=  3 M                                                                           LSB3   F >S1 e 3|
TOTAL PROJECT COST              aS  f                    Q p    o      m         S     7  22 SZI Amfi mQ  Au        Z     am A           im  LQA    W1U   IflQ a(Q10300 1940lJ 4S4Sf
C.
from 1991 to 1993)                                                             2        W                DIM    m    ha   A         &I   az  U                                            I
TOTAL DTVESt42                                                               4740                                                           I  i  1    ALI
PROGRAM COST
(Subtotaln A+S C)
NOTE: L: Local; F: Foreign; T: Total.



REPUBLrC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES E-T TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Technical Assistance Summary
Dir eWlon      Financing           Title              Intervening        Mon/Months    Excutilon of
the Project             Remarks
FINANCE       CCCE         Control system.          To be defin d.           6        Ist Isemestr 1989.    u
FAC         Finace consultant.       FAC expert.             24        Dec 1988, Dec 1969. In progress.
CCCE        Computerlzatlon of:      SERT                              8eginning of 2nd    Contract to be signed ursentl.
-  ccounting;                                    10          Soemeter 1969.
- stff va9es.                                    10
OPTT/DDA    Coordination of          To be selected.          a        2nd semester 1969.  Term of rference to be
computerizatlon.                                                                de in d.
CONLmO        CCCE        Human resources.          CEGQS                   19        2nd Isemes r 1989.  Contract to be slgned _rsently.
AFFADRS       IDA         Supp!y Ond Managemnt    To be slocted.            18        October 1989         Modsl of terms of reternc
of inventory,                                                                   given to the Office, and Draft
letter of invitatton to be        tn
sent to IDA In July 19B9.
TELECOMS       IDA        Project supervision.      Under evaluatlon.       #8        June 1989.           Evaluation completed before
negociation.
CCCE       Telophone billing         Arthur Andersen.        67        February 1969.       In progress.
FAC         Manag ement Information   SIR mission.            4        8rd and 4th
System                                                     trimester 1989.
IDA        Assistance to plannin.   ITU                      20        June 1991.           Term of reference to be revis d
and submitted to IDA end 1990.
IDA        Structure of              To be chosen            46        June 1990.           Terms of reference to be
maintenance                                                                     submitted to IDA by Jan. 1990.
IDA        Subscrtibor Management    To be chosen    To be def Ind    1990-1991.            Terms of reference to be
Systm.                                                                          submitted to IDA by Oct. 1969.
PNUD        Study of demand           ITU/University          4        July 1989.           Term of referenc  to be
of Benin                                              drafted ASAP (May 1969).
IV
POSTE         IDA         Management of operations  To be defIned           6        1990                 Teros of reerence to be
prepared by the Technical
Assistant by March 26.
v0
MANAGEMENT    IDA         Telecoms sector           To be defined            6        1990                 To be defined by let semester
restructuring                                                                   1989.



-55-                               ANNEX 11
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMWNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement aL
(S Million)
Bank's Profile
IDA Fiscal Year       ------     Cumulative----------      West Africa
On Semester Ending    In Semester   Through Semester       (Cumulative)
FY90
December 1989                    0.3             0.3                1.0
June 1990                        2.3             2.6                2.6
FY91
December 1990                    2.6             5.2                4.2
June 1991                        3.0             8.2                5.7
FY92
December 1991                    2.0            10.2                6.9
June 1992                        1.7            11.9                8.4
FY93
December 1992                    1.6            13.5               10.0
June 1993                        1.4            14.9               11.4
FY94
December 1993                    0.4            15.3               12.3
June 1994                        0.4            15.7               13.3
FY95
December 1994                    0.3            16.0               14.5
June 1995                                                          15.0
PY96
December 1995                                                      15.4
June 1996                                                          15.8
FY97
December 1997                                                      16.0
at  Based on expected project implementation rather than the standard
Bank's profile for West Africa due to the completion of most
preparatory procurement activity prior to credit effectiveness.



ThPL30WEATION SCBEDULE
LEUIDE
x : Appel d'Offres                             RL : RUseaux Locaux
d : Ddpckillement                              CT : Ccnmtation
m : ilarch4                                    TRi: Transmission fibre optique
a : debut chantier ou fabrication              TR2: Trarsmission faisceaux hertziens region Kara
TR3: Transmission faisceaux hertziens Lkm6-Kara
1989   F  IS A ll J  J  A  S O  N 1990  Fi t A  t J  J  A  S O  N 1991   F  M  A  N J  J  A  S O  N 1992   F  H
I.Rdseaux locaux           I        I                 I                                    I
RL                 x___  _    _m                                    a   ___(b)  Ic) _
Travaux OPTT                                                                             x         -         -
2.Bitiments                     x_  _d       a __L-||
3.Commutation             X        fi       |_          o           -       -         -
4.Transmission
SR1                x                   __n a_I
TR2                x         x         _     m       a                       __     Q
SR3                          x|_                               
5.Ingenierie           d__ _m       a   _
(a) d6but r4ceptions g4nie civil - tirage et raccordement des cibles
(b) reception de 100 points de concentration pour les abonnes a install6s par loPIT
(c) rkception de 1500 abonnds mutes et de 500 nouveatx abonnes construits par 1'entreprise
(d) disponibilit6 des liaisons URAD-coeurs de chaine
x



- 57  -                                   NEX 13
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Performance Indicators
--Actual---      ------
Fiscal Year Ending December 81             197    1988      1989    1990    1991      m      1993    1994
I. TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE
(a) T lephone exchange                   10,087  10,607   10,687  10,607  19,000  22,900  23,000  2S,000
capacity (lines)
(b) Main telephone lInes connected        9,S00   9,600    9,800  10,000  18,000  16,000  19,200  22,600
(DELs, *uto and manual)
(e) Telex exchange capacity (lines)       1,449   1,449    1,449   1,449
(d) Telex subcrib ers connected             428     489      550     650      720     600     880     960
(lines)
(e) Maintenance targets
(I)  Faults reported per annum       104      100       90      80      70       s0      40      35
per 100 main telephone lines
(ii) Percent of faults:
- cleared within 48 hours         es     68        70      76      60       86      90      90
- cleared within 8 days           95      97       98      98       99      99      99      99
(f) Average call completion percentage
(during busy hour)
(l)  Local calls                      65       60       60      60      e6       70      75      80
(ii)  Long distance calls (STO)         36      a5       a8      40      46       60      60      70
(IIt)  International -.all
- Outgoing                        66     655       so       8      60       65      70      76
- Incoming                        as     a8        a8      40      50       66      60      70
II. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
(a) Net intrnal cash gn-eration as
X of construction                       280     202      120       60      50      70      80      110
(b) Rate of return ()                        85      31       29      20       21      19      1S      1S
(c) Debt/debt and equity (X)                 89      84       26      81       40      45      47      48
(d) Current ratio                             1.8     1.6      1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8     1.8     1.7
(e) Private accounts rece vable**/
(X of billing to private seWior)         40      40       sO      28      25       22      20      18
(f) Government accounts receivable
(X of billing to Government)             80     100       50      8O      80       25      20      18
(g) Operating revenue/DEL (CFAF)  8/ 679            697      389     703     661      608     576    568
(h) Operating cost/DEL (CFAF) !/-           664     616      619     684      594     624     488     468
III .PROGRAMIPROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(O) Construction Expenditures
(CFAF million)                         693   1,178    1,230   3,660   4,740   4,780   4,900   4,000
- of which:  I.   project               -       -      600   8,200   4,600   4,100      800       -
(b) Loan disbursemnts (CFAF million)          -       -      165   1,398   1,748   1,126      373       -
IV. MANPOWER
Staff per 1,000 DELs In service              74      71       68       65      65      s0      46       40
(year end)
f/ Total revenues/operating costs, divided by mid-year telephone DELO In service.
00/ An 80/20 analysis of revenue and receivable will also be provided.



-58 -                         ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Assumptions for the Financial Projections (1989-1994)
General data
1.       Financial data for the years prior to 1987 are actuals.  However,
accounting record keeping was poor, accounts were not audited, and hence
those figures are somewhat unreliable. Data for 1987 and 1988 are
estimated from provisional results. Data for 1989-93 are projected.
Operating Revenue
2.       Telecomumnications tariffs are maintained constant in nominal
terms throughout the investment period and increased by 152 in 1992.
Postal tariffs have been increased by 302 in February 1989 and are expected
to remain at that level for the length of the project.
Income statements
3.       Revenues from fixed payments (i.e., installation and subscription
fee) increase with the expanding number of lines. Installation fees are
based on the total number of lines connected in the year. Subscription fee
a:c based on t4e mid-year DEL.
4.       Revenues from international calls would increase by 102 in 1988
(conservative estimates), 52 in 1989 and 1990, 7: from 1991 to 1995, as
they would be stimulated by the availability of new lines, and 5S
thereafter.
- 5.        Revenues for local calls are estimated on the basis of 1.5 calls
per day per line. Intercity revenues are estimated in 1987 and would
increase with the expanding number of lines and possible changes in local
tariff.
6.       Revenues from new connections are net and are estimated at half
the price of a connection (the full price is CFAF 81,000), as some work by
OPTT is required to install the new line.
7.       Telex revenues would increase by 3Z per year, telegraph revenues
by 22. Financial revenues would increase with inflation.
8.       Postal revenues are assumed to increase by 22 per year.
Operating Charges
9.       Joint services charges are allocated 672 to telecommunications and
332 to post.



- 59 -                        ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 8
10.      Telecommunications personnel charges would increase in relation to
the increase in productivity (i.e., number of staff per 1,000 DEL) as
stated in the Performance Contract and to the increase in total line.
Average salary has been assumed to increase at 37Z above inflation to
account for increased technical requirements. Post personnel would
increase by 2? per year, about half the inflation rate to account for
increases of productivity.
1I.      Supplies and spare parts increase has been assumed at 1.52 of new
construction. In addition, the full inflation rate has been applied to
increase supplies, spare parts and service expenses. Services would
increase with inflation.
12.      The depreciation rate keeps a 7.5? of the gross fixed assets in
operation.
13.      Provisions for bad debts have been applied only to private sector
revenue and are estimated at 202 of revenue in 1988, 152 in 1989, 12? in
1990, 1OZ in 1991, and al in 1992 and thereafter.
Custom duties, income tax and miscellaneous taxes have been factored in as
if OPTT was a private enterprise. The specific rates ares
-  custom duty          s  8? flat on all imported goods;
-  Income tax           : 40? of net income;
- Miscellaneous taxes :  7Z of personnel charges,
15? on overhead expenses.
Funds flow statements
14.      Provisions for bad debts are considered to be an irrecoverable
loss and are not part of the internal generation of funds.
15.      Debt service yearly installments are calculated in a special
borrowing table. However, it appears that the debt has been serviced in
1987 and 1988 and that these two installments have been added to the 1989
one.
Balance sheets
16.      New investments are apportioned to fixed assets in the following
way: 30? the first year, 50Z the second year and 20? the third year.
Before new investments are accounted as fixed assets, they are as in works
in progress.
17.      Inventory increases at the inflation rate and is commensurate to
the expanding number of lines. Private receivables show a four-month lag
from 1989 on. The receivables are net, and the cumulative bad debts are
shown as a deduction of retained earnings in the equity account.
Government's debt is shown separately as being progressively reduced, but
late arrears could, if necessary, be paid through compensation
arrangements.



-60 -                         ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 8
18.      The variations of the long term debt are calculated in the
borrowing table. The debt to SATELIT is progressively reduced to three
months. Credit on foreign postal administrations is progressively reduced
by application of the Kigali convention. Deposits in the postal bank would
increase with inflation.



-61 -                                                ANNMXM1
Page of
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMWNICATIONS pU TOGO (OPtT!
TELECOWWNICATIONS PROJECT
FINANCIAL STATENENTS
1985            l9U         ijfl   lID     990   1991        92    1993    1994
GENERAL DATA
SDRIFCFA                          365
Inflation rates                     4.0%     4.0*    3.2%    3.7*   3.4*    4.4*    4.0*    4.0*
PRODUCTION DATA
Telephone
Outroing calls tbon)                41
rance    kui)2675
UAPT                            1471
Rest of world                    9S1
Total                         5097
incoming calls (ken)               17
France                          1777
UAPT                            1471
Rest of world                    711
Total                         3959
Transit calls (kmn)
France out                       "I
France in (prov.)                278
VAPT (out, noth. in)             217
Rest of world (out)              134
UK in (prov.)                     60
Tariffs (FCFA)
Outgoing France                  857
UAPT                   S
R. world              1500
Sharing with France              200
R.world            365
Transit                          153
Revenues Togo (hFCFA)
(intern.tel.,adj 5,81*)
France                          1798.7
UAPT                             743.0
Rest of world                   1924.6
Total                         4466.3
Revenues teleph (NFCFA)
(from sales total bef.
sharing, adj. 1,79%)
France                          14.
UAPT                             748.7
Rest of world                   2125.4
Total                         4822.8



- 62 -                                            ~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 14
-62 -                                                         Pagi3roT1
rx
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOTIbNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENTS
(CFAF million)
Tr;ff. Ilocal call-                                                 80        S0        80        S0         80        57        57        S7
2fCfA)     n i trcitd                                              300       3e00      So0        00       800        345                 345
l~.,a lfinesa4aaclud.   *                                                                                          54        66         o
ei44Wv., Si   . of cmnuect d)                          7980      81m        e000      9200     "90       12200               16850 i0    n160
id-y..r 06.cp ty                                                 am8       6860      9100       gm       1062      13620       15      ls
REVSE - #4FCFA
T p   l   Fixed pay                                              160       160       170        174       202       254       309       866
CT  wnicInt.mlte                                                41n1t    580 s     870 60 49            62m       6696      7166      7667
--   atoercity                                                540 "78             61t1      6          728      1053        71      2001
-     tLolabth                                                20        254       239 805             846        479       571       6t6
Na.  ctione net                                                                60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  112  117  121
Total                                      4720      S400      8768      6825      6651       a68       7594       54       9633     lo
Telex Fised pzy,                                                   S0        80        60        80         60        80        60        S0
Traf"i                                  692       647       796        so       844       670        89        923       950       979
Telegraph A wieall.                           149       160        78        t0        el        6S          4        66tt      as        90
Financia  row.                                                     36       160       1oo       160        160       160       160       180
Total teelom.                              8861      6407      6743      7484       7787      118       676       9813     1o062     12100
Postal ear ices                                                   S25       658       T8       a68        a68       102?      1027      1048
Financial rev.                                                     30        60        60        60        60         60        60        60
Total poet                                  690       687       585       713       8a8       916        9l6      1007      1067      11e0
Total 0IT                                  62W1      7074      7290      6147      6625       9084      9701     10900     1196      13208
OAC5including gOm.
aer. 673 tel 331 poet)
Tel: pay. to SATU.IT                      2602      2710      2281      2268      2617      2741      2917       3106      3305      8520
Personnel
telecom                                  408       442       400       577       620       668        719       761       899      1034
poet                                     80        3880      806       829       886       342       349        856       363       371
Suppli; A *spares
telIecm                                  397       420       378       732       774       868       961       1078      1198      1306
post                                     228       247       181        as6      192       201       209        220       230       240
Services  misc.
tSlacom                                  241       284       242       290       300       311       321        335       349       363
post                                      35        30        59       201       207       21S       222        232       241       2S3
0epreciatio,'
t lecom                                  438       459       498      S80       63        780       1020      1374      1795      2233
poet                                      22        26        33        88        42        8S        66         80        94       107
Tan.e: talecom.
*elr ;*a                                                                         43        47         SO       5S         63        72
overhead                                                                         41        47         48      --         gM         64
totel                                                                          tbt       93         99       105       11S       127
poet
eas lriae                                                                         26        24         24        25        25        26
ovrhed                                                                                     -A                  -A 3S 36   _      
total                                                                           a5        s8        86         SO        62        64
Tel: financial ch.
Tel: prow. bad debt.                      e6         920      1000      1179       928       776        702       630       701       763
Pot: Prov. bed debt 
TotslIcharge.
telecomc                                   4924      s20       4b05       SW9      67      6227      673bt      7408      6363  e 367
post                                      .11       ..a       __Mi      .SO         .MZ      __7         904       947       990     -033
Total                                     6559         76      835      6347      679s      7094       7643     a6m6       9352    10399
NET ItCO   from operat.
to Ieco                                    637      1202      1938      less      1820      1891      2048       240S      2519      2733
Poet                                       .21      .6           7      .37        .        .9        ..1Z        MO         97        75
Totel                                      712      1196      1945      1600      1826       1939      2088      2545      2617      2606
Interest for debt *er..                       216       202         0         0       670       309       472        667       607       691
Tavtes telecom.
; nce*                                                                                        633       630        69s       6s6       737
aworte                                                                                        20        2l         M         307       Al
total                                                                                       637        1e6       990       992       993
poet
incose                                                                                          19         6         s6        39        30
0.idend.
Nat inc. for ret, earn.                                         1945      1w00       118       773        684       632       779       894
Financial rate of return
Weeoman                                                         87.26     84.13     30,613    26.71     1..9%      16.73     15.01     13.211
poet                                                             2.01    -10.9       1.811    10.01       2.01     19.63     12.13      6.61
am                                                              35.01    31.443     2r.63     25.6S      20.71     18.81     14.03     13.11



ANNEX 14
-63-                                                Page 6 oT 8
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS
(CFAF million)
1987   1988   1999   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
SOURCES
Intern. gener. of funds
(net inc.fr. op.+depr.)
telecomt                         2433   2388   2459   2671   3066   3779   4315   4966  16289
post                               40      -2     48    102       78    220    191    182    638
Total                              2473   2386   2507   2772   3144   3998   4506   5148  16927
Long term borrowing
telecom  IDA                                     155   1398   1748   1126   3730                4800
others                   41    400    245    522   1802   2224   2807   2500   7600
post
Other sources (grants)              103
CIDA + FAC grants                                        100    360    360        20             840
Total sources
telecomm                    2577   2788   2859   4691   6976   7489   6815   6766  28829
post                          40      -2       8    102       78    220    191    182    638
Total                     2617   2786   2907   4792   7054   7708   7006   6948  29467
APPLICATIONS
Constru.tion expenditures
telecomr maiintenance     _       693   1178    430    350    240    180    100                 1300
proposed proj.                          800   3200   4500   4100    800          0  13400
future proj.     500   4000   4000   4500
total                   693   1178   1230   3550   4740   4780   4900   4000  19200
post                                      130     90      90      90      90      90      90    450
joint expenditures                               120    200    200    100    100    100    720
Debt service
telecomm - capit.                              1111    436    437    459    443    408   2836
- inter.                               670    309    472    667    807    891   2925
total                                           1781    745    909   1126   1250   1299   5811
post total
Taxes telecomm.                       0       0      0    837    918    990    992    993   3737
post                            0      0       0      19       5      56      39      30      0
Dividends                                            0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Total applications
telecomm                       693   1178   3092   5266   6701   6962   7209   6359  29230
postal serv.                          0    130    130    175    161    179    162    153    807
Total                             693   1308   3221   5442   6862   7141   7371   6512  30037
Sources less applicat.             1924   1478   -314   -650    192    567   -365    436   -570
Variation in work. cap.
(assets minus liabil.)           -2388    721    688    476    153    263    272    316   1853
Balance of funds                   4312    756  -1002  -1126        40    303   -638    120  -2423
Net Intern. gener./total construct3.6    1.8    0.5    0.5    0.4    0.6    0.6    0.9    0.5
Intern. gererat./debt service                      1.4    3.7    3.5    3.6    3.6    4.0    2.9



ANNEX 14
-  64  -PagiTifl
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOe.UNICATIONS OU TOSO (OPTT)
TELECOMNUNICATIONS PROJECT
BALANCE SHEETS
(CFAF million)
ASSETS                             1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Fixed assets
Telecommunications
gross f. ass.                6370   6837   7824   9213  11587  15608  21024  26852  32692
less depreciat.                 1125   1656   2241   2901   3713   4753   6182   8007  10263
net fixed assets               5245   5181   5583   6312   7874  10855  14842  18844  22429
Post
gross f. ass.                   427    444    502    623    786    966   1158   1337   1516
less depreciat.               75    110    148    191    246    314    397    493    603
net fixed assets                352    334    354    432    540    653    761    844    913
Total net f. assets              5597   5515   5937   6744   8414  11508  15603  19688  23342
Works in progress                           485   1054   1270   2976   4289   4485   4557   3951
Other long term ass.
Current assets
Inventory                        291    396    439    449    461    596    735    883   1032
Private receivables              1799   1576   2358   2042   2133   2317   2600   2893   3228
Creditor Treasury               8372    450    472    309    323    351    394    438    49
Creditor Postal Adms               62   3130   2000   1000    500    5OO    500    SOO    SOO
Total                         10524   5552   5269   3801   3418   3764   4228   4715   5249
Cash & banks                        389   4701   5457   4455   3329   3369   3672   3034   3154
Total Assets                    16510  16253  17716  16270  18137  22930  27989  31994  35696
LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital & grants         -       3000   3103   3103   3103   3203   3563   3923   3943   3943
inc. bef.bad debts                    2945   5924   8009   9558  10923  12386  13866  15543
cumulat. bad debts                    1000   2179   3107   3883   4585   5215   5917   6699
Retained earnings                       1965   3797   5008   5862   6639   7634   8644   9852
Revaluat. reserve                        218    454    663    952   1302   1913   2637   3521
Total                       3000   5286   7354   8774  10017  11503  13470  15224  17316
Long term debt
BOAD                              603
CCCE                             1505
Oeferred debt                    1169
Total                              3277   3318   3718   3007   4491   7604  10495  12532  13924
Current liabilities
Deposits cust. OPTT               414    438    485    496    510    658    811    974   1138
Suppliers                          89     89      89      89      89      89      89      89      89
Due to SATELIT                   2765   2981   1814   1309    685    729    776    826    880
Due to Postal Adms.                      1500   1000    500    250    250    250    250    250
Deferred Lg t. debt                       548   1161              -                      _
Total                              3268   5556   4550   2394   1534   1726   1927   2140   2357
Deposits CCP
BCEAO                             414
Public companies                  138
Private enterprises               679   1039   1039   1040   1040   1040   1041   1041   1042
Treasury                         5721   1054   1054   1055   1055   1056   1056   1056   1057
CNE                                13
Total                         gm      2U    2MM       ZY    Zi        ZY    29    ZY    z
Total Liabilities               16510  16253  17716  16270  18137  22930  27989  31994  35696
Balance Ass. min. Liab.
Debt/(debt + equity)             52.2%  38.6%  33.6%  25.5%  31.0%  39.8%  43.8%  45.2%  44.6%
Current ratio                     1.1    1.3    1.6    1.8    1.9    1.9    2.0          1.8    1.9



- 65 -
ANNEX 14
Pag 8 oi 8
TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOIMJNICATIONS U TOGO CTPm
TELECOMMINICATIONS PROJECT
(CPAF miIllon)
1987   190 189   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Debt resched. (beg. 88)
telcomm - reimbure.                   838    896    838    486    487    459    448    408
outstanding                            -1111  -1647  -1984  -244   -2686  -3294
Interest                   214    209    216    196    169    142    111      82
Maintenance projects
(telecomm.)-100S Inl987
borrow.(no relub 43)                   41    400   200
re murs.
outstanding                            41    441    641    641    641    641    641    641
Interest                                1     10     22     26     26      26     26     26
Proposed project: telecom.
VI, BAD, Cairn c. - 48.19X
borrowing (5-12)           7.65X                    200   1000   2250   1450    480       0
reimburs.
outstanding beginning                                 0    200  2000  4250   5700   6180
outstanding  nd                                     200   2000   4250   6700  6180   6180
Interest charged                                            64    289    881    464    478
Proposed project: telecomm.
BE! - 23.825
borrowing (5-16)            5.06                           120   1800   1500    200       0
reimburs.
outstanding beginning                                        0    120   1420   2920  8120
outstanding end                                             120   1420   2920   8120   3120
interest charged                                             8     89    109    151    16B
Debt future project
(telecoMM.)   -   7.68X
borrowing (6-16)            6.06                                     0    400   1300  1800
reimbure.
outstanding beginning                                                0      0    400   2200
outstanding end                                                      0    400   2200   4000
Interest                                                            0      10     65    165
Sumary
(telecom.)
borrowing                              41    400   400   1920   8560   8850   2480   18C0
reimburs.                             M38    895      8    486    487    469    443    408
outstanding end                        41    441   -270   1214   4827   7218   9266  10647
interest                              216    219   287    809    472    667    807    891



- 66 -                      ANNEX 15
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Communications Tariffs
(on March 1989)
Telephone Service                                         FCFA
-  Connection fee                                       90,000
-  Installation fee:
. First line                                         18,0001/
. Second line                                         7.500
- Escrow deposit:
. Residential                                        25,000
. Business                                          200,000
- Maintenance fee:
. 0-2 km                                              3,000
2-4 km                                              2,000
, over 4 km                                 expenses + 25Z
- Subscription fee:
, First line                                         11,250
, Second line                                         5,000
-  Rental feet                                           3,000
- Call charges:
, local per call                     50 (minimwm 750/month)
* long distance per 3 minutes:
*    0-50 km                                        100
*  51-100 km                                        150
* 101-150 km                                        250
* 151-200 km                                        300
. International per 3 minutes:
* France                                          3,427
* United States                                   6,000
* Nigeria                                         2,667
Telex Service
-  Connection fee                                       90,000
-  Line rental fee per year                             41,400
-  Equipment rental fee per month                       35,000
- International per 1 minute
. France                                                700
. United States                                       1,760
. Nigeria                                               900
Postal Service
- First scale of weight letter
. National                                               90
. International                                         120
1/ In fact distance dependent. Can go up to 43,000 CFAF.



- 67 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Return on Investment
1.       Investments on which the rate of return is calculated are those
under the project. The benefit period extends from 1989 to 2009 when on
average the equipment installed under the project is expected to have
completed its usefulness with no residual value.
2.       Capital costs are per the 1989-93 investment program exclusive of
all price contingencies and transfer payments, such as custom duties. They
are valued at 1989 prices. Benefits attributed to the project are valued
at actual tariffs and consist of the revenues from the new subscribers
connected under the project.  Operating costs are the incremental operating
costs of providing services to the new subscribers. All revenues and costs
have been deflated to bring them to their comparable 1989 price levels.
From 1993 on, operating costs and benefits relating to the project are
assumed to remain constant. The financial rate of return is then 25.1Z.
3.       The internal financial rate of return however does not fully
reflect the net economic benefit from the project.  Assuming that in the
future, given the supply constraint, subscribers'are prepared to pay in
real terms the same tariff as in 1988, a portion of the consumer surplus
can be estimated. Further, the portion of civil works cost attributed to
the employment of unskilled labor has been excluded from the investment
cost assuming an oversupply of unskilled labor. In such a case, the
economic rate of return is 31.8Z. This represents a minimum estimate since
no account is taken of substantial external benefits accruing to the
economy such as increased business efficiency and transport saving from an
improved telecc'munications service.
4.       A sensitivity analysis was made of the economic rate of return
with the following results:
- with a 10 increase in expenditures, the rate of return
becomes 28.22;
- with a 102 decrease in operating revenues, the rate of
return falls to 27.8Z;
- with a combination of the above, the rate of return
becomes 24.42;
- with a 2 year delay in benefits, the rate of return
falls to 15Z.



- 68 -
ANNEX 16
page 2 of 2
Rate of return analysis : discounted cash flows
(CFAF million)
Financial cost/benefit                Economic cost/benefit
Years               Net      Total    Total               Net      Total    Total
Benefit  Benefit   Cost               Benefit  Benefit   Cost
1989               -778                778               -714                 714
1990              -3016               3016              -2928                2928
1991              -3254     1135      4389              -3064      1217      4281
1992              -1381     2764      4146               -971      3094      4066
1993               2265     4080      1816               2939      4751      1812
1994               3128     4395      1267               4054      5321      1267
1995               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
1996               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
1997               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
1998               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
1999               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
2000               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
2001               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
2002               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
2003               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
2004               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
2005               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
2006               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
2007               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
2008               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
2009               3219     4496      1276               4045      5321      1276
FRR   25.14?                                   ERR    31.87?



- 69 -                      ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU TOGO (OPTT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
L'st of Documents in the Proiect File
1.       Plan Directeur National des T4l4coumunications PNUD/UIT 1987.
2.       Legislation pertaining to OPTB, i.e.:
- Ddcr#t 88-190 du 17 septembre 1986 portant sur la
creation de l'Office des Postes et TGl4communications.
- Loi organique 82-6 du 16 juin 1982 relative aux societes
d'Etat et EPIC.
-  Decr@t 82-177 portant application de la loi 82-6 aux
EPIC.
3.       World Bank:
- Country economic memorandum of September 29, 1987.
- Report and recommendation of the President of the
International Development Association to the Executive
Directors on a proposed credit to the Republic of Togo
for a tjird structural adjustment, March 7, 1988.
- Togo policy framework paper, 1987.
4.       Project preparation documentt
- Economic study of Lome-Kara project (Sofrecom).
- Draft bidding documents and tender specifications for
local network, switching and optlcal fiber transmission
(Sofrecom).
- Economic and technical study of Lome-Kara digital
microwave link (Yves Houssin).
5.       Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Togo:
- Telephone tariffs 1981.
- Telex tariffs 1989.
- Postal tariffs 1989.
- Bilan d'ouverture 1987.



- 70 -                       ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2
- Etats financiers, exercice 1987 (FICAO).
- Convention d'apport entre le GOT et OPTT.
- Rapport sur la validation des avoirs des clients des CCP
(Arthur Andersen 1988).
- Convention de r4partition entre OPTT et SATELIT (1987).
6.       Consultant's Report:
- Etude de mise en place d'une structure de gestion
autonome pour les Postes et Telecommunications (ROC,
octobre 1987).
- Potentiel de developpement du secteur et projections
financieres (ROC, fevrier 1986).
- Cadre institutionnel (ROC, aoQt 1986).
- Bilan de la situation des Postes et Telecommunications
(ROC, decembre 1988).
- Appui au contrOle operationnel de la gestion des
produits de telecommunications (ICEA).
- Appui A la maltrise d'ouvrage (rapports, dtcembre 1987,
janvier. fevrier, mars et juin 1988).
7.       Miscellaneous report, document and working papers.
- Systeme d'information de gestion des entreprises
publiques (1987).
-  Postal project document (UPU, 1987).
- Detailed terms of reference for technical assistance.



To Ouogodom;u   ol                                                        
To Ouogodougu                                                                                    UMAURITANIA                     MAL                          NIGER
...-.    *-...           BURKINA  FASO                                THE   SENGA                                                                 _              C A
.-*.)                 I' ~~~~BURKINA
GUINEA F-*~'                         -         ASO
BISSAU          GUINEA                     r-2~E I  
j   APAONG               Jh     t                               X                                                       NIGERIA
;   l \   TONEF                                              L g J j  '   1n,SERRA 0  COTE D'IVOIRE  0!   i                      1'
LIBERIA~~~     !GHAN    O*  (                                CENTRAL
AFRICAN
0          (            ~~~~~~~REPUBLIC
ATLANTIC                                                          <            EROON
SAbN  i  OCt-AN                                G.4Gf of Guirea    LNO         .   P.R.
k   %    \'NTELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1O00                                                                                                           D PROJES DE TELECOUNICATIONSMUI
A                  a  j        t    j                                   lFACILITES TO BE ADDED UNDER THE PROJECT%
EQUIPEMENTS DUI PROJET.
DIGITAL AMCROWAVE LINK, LOME-KARA 34 MbitsiS (I 4 1)
BINA                        ~~~~~~~~~LIAISON HERTZIENNE, LOME-KARA 34 Mbift~S (IIf )
-....~REGIONAL MICROWAVE LINK, 8 Mb,ts/S (I + 1)
IJAISONS NUMERIQUES REGIONALES, 8 Mbits/S (I I1)
*   NEW DIGITAL TELEPHONE EX, MANGE
R                                          0        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOUVEAUX CENTRAUX NUAIM RIQUES
-.OPTICAL FIBER LINK
< K  A   R                          R_  (  tLIAISON FIBRE OPTIOUE
RURAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ZONE PHASE I
ZONE DE DESSERTE RURALE PHASE I
FlREMOTE UNITS AND SUBSCRIBERS
i5UNITE DIS TANTE FT A80NNES
EXISTING FACILITIES:
EQUIPEMENTS EXISTANTS:
.... . ..             ~     ~~~~~ANAILOG MICROWAVE LINK TO BE KEPT AFTER 1992
LIAISON ANALOGIQUE A CONSERVER A,'RES 1992
G    H  A   N    A    f-                                                                                             ANALOG MiCROWAVE LINK TO BE REMOVED AFTER 1992
LIAISON ANALOGIQUE A SUPRIMER APRES 1992
-DIGITAL MICROWAVE LINK
49 C)   t   # J       8                  T-c>Tc hanba   ,             tLIAISON NUMERIQUE 2 Mbits'S
-90                                                             .'b                                                       ANALOG TELEPHONE EXCHANGE                              90
I              W o   ;  z   -\   1r  t   |CENTRAUX AUTOMA IQUES ANALOGIQUES
T3 s   St   5_ rCHAli Jo  iJ /    \              "  MAIN MAANUAL TELEPHONE EXCHANGE
PRINCIPAUIX CENTRAUX MANUELS)
MAIN ROADS
t    A > 4  C  E  N/.R| sEL   0  1YALA     |           _      ROUTES PRINCIPALES 
ROUTES SECONDAIRES Cf OISlES
SOTOUBOUJA  ,          I                                             MAIN RIVERS       CIOSS
COURS D'EAU IMPORTANTS
SELECTED TOWNS
I)             VVIUES CH-IOISIES                         j
PREFECTURE CAPITALS
CHEF S-LIEUX OE PREFECTURE
I            ~~~~REGION CAPITALS
CHEFS-LIELiX DE REGION               (
X*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPIrALE
-~~~~~~~         U                                                                    - -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREf ECTURE BOUNDARIES
021 I                   LIMITES DE PREFECTURES
90                                                                       I           -. - V:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`GION BOUNDARIES
8>                                                                                                                        X X _ _. LIMITES DF REGIONS
_INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FRONTItRES INTERNlATIONALES
NIGERIA
[  ,                                   4\                                           J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C   B E N I N
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1< 
1-E AU                /           LOM
-    -      I     '_Cocavelli        Hediranawo6           Port
n  WW  9 ts i (v ' ' ''1                                                                        _
_70                                                                                                                                   'entre (5000)                            70.
L\Ec
25         50                       0
KILOMETERS
To Ioos
urn -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
IT. ~~~~~ -- ~
T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
c~~~~~~ To.   rn~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ToAa
a-o-       .                                                                                                         GulfTof                   Guinea
~~~~~-- --- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~iAc                                                                     2                                                          i



