Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2056 TO
                   (Telecommunications Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 18, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2056 TO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  18,  1989,  between   REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by  OPTT  with the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available to OPTT the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the European
Investment  Bank  (EIB)  a  loan  (the  EIB  Loan)  in  an  amount
equivalent to  $10,400,000  to  assist  in  financing  part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
EIB Loan Agreement) to  be  entered  into between the Borrower and
EIB;
Page  2
     (D)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the  African
Development Bank  (AfDB)  a  loan  (the  AfDB  Loan)  in an amount
equivalent to  $4,000,000  to  assist  in  financing  part  of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
AfDB Loan Agreement) to be  entered  into between the Borrower and
AfDB;
     (E)  the Borrower intends to  receive from Canada through the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) a grant (the CIDA
Grant) in an amount of  $2,300,000  to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and  conditions set forth in an agreement
(the CIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and CIDA;
     (F)  the Borrower intends to receive from the French Republic
through the Fonds d'Aide a  la  Cooperation (FAC) a grant (the FAC
Grant) in an amount equivalent  to $300,000 to assist in financing
part of the Project on  the  terms  and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the FAC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and FAC;
     (G)  the  Borrower  intends  to   contract  from  the  Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique  (CCCE)  a loan (the CCCE Loan)
in an amount equivalent to $600,000 to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and  conditions set forth in an agreement
(the CCCE Loan Agreement) to  be entered into between the Borrower
and CCCE; and
     (H)  the Borrower intends to  receive from the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) a grant  (the  UNDP Grant) in an amount
of $100,000 to assist  in  financing  part  of  the Project on the
terms and conditions set  forth  in  an  agreement (the UNDP Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and OPTT;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and OPTT of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  OPTT, pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such  term  includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement;
Page  3
     (d)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association to the Borrower,
pursuant to an  exchange  of  letters  dated  October 21, 1988 and
November 11, 1988 between the Borrower and the Association;
     (e)  "OPTT" means Office des  Postes et Telecommunications du
Togo, a public  enterprise  established  and operating pursuant to
Decree No. 86/190 of  the  Borrower,  dated September 17, 1986, as
such Decree may be amended from time to time;
     (f)  "Performance  Contract"   means   the   contract  to  be
concluded between the  Borrower  and  OPTT  in accordance with the
provisions of Section 6.01  (d)  of  this Agreement, setting forth
the rights and obligations of the Borrower and OPTT, and such term
includes  all  schedules   and   agreements  supplemental  to  the
Performance Contract;
     (g)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of OPTT; and
     (h)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to twelve  million  and  four  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
Page  4
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  June  1 and December 1,
commencing December 1, 1999 and ending June 1, 2029. Each install-
ment to and including  the  installment  payable  on June 1, 2009,
shall be one  percent  (1%)  of  such  principal  amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. OPTT  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.O2 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause  OPTT  to  perform  in  accordance with the
provisions of the Project  Agreement  all  the obligations of OPTT
therein set forth; shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable OPTT to perform such
obligations; and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the  proceeds of the Credit to
Page  5
OPTT under a subsidiary loan  agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and OPTT, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the  Association  which shall include interest at
the rate of  7.65  percent  per  annum  and  a repayment period of
17 years including a grace period  of 5 years. OPTT shall bear the
foreign exchange risk on such onlending.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such  manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the  Credit  and,  except  as  the  Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out  by  OPTT  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall: (a) perform all its obliga-
tions under the Performance Contract  with due diligence and effi-
ciency; (b) cause OPTT to  perform all its obligations therein set
forth; (c) by June 30 of  each year, review together with OPTT and
the Association the performance achieved  by the Borrower and OPTT
in the execution  of  the  Performance  Contract; and (d) promptly
implement any measure required on  its  part as recommended in the
light of said review to  enhance  the execution of the Performance
Contract.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  by  July  31, 1990 revise
OPTT's statutes in a  manner  satisfactory  to the Association and
fully consistent with the provisions of the new public enterprises
legal framework to be enacted by the Borrower by January 31, 1990.
     Section 4.03. For the purposes  of carrying out Parts C.2 and
C.4  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  OPTT  to: (a)
(i) carry out a  study  to  determine an appropriate structure and
levels of OPTT's tariffs; (ii)  review the results and recommenda-
tions of said  study  with  the  Association  no later than Decem-
ber 31, 1991;  and  (iii)  implement  the  recommendations of said
study as agreed upon  with  the  Association  no later than Decem-
ber 31, 1992; and
     (b)  (i)  carry  out  a   study  to  determine  OPTT's  human
resources needs and  to  formulate  an appropriate Human Resources
Development Plan (HRDP);  (ii)  by  December  31, 1990, submit the
results and recommendations of said study  and a draft HRDP to the
Association for its review and  comments; and (iii) implement said
HRDP and the  recommendations  agreed  upon  in  accordance with a
timetable acceptable to the Association.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  OPTT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
Page  6
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that OPTT will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  Decree No. 86/190 of September  17, 1986 of the Borrower
shall have been amended,  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially  and  adversely  the ability of OPTT to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of OPTT or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of  any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                    Borrower or  OPTT  for  the  financing  of the
                    Project shall  have  been suspended, cancelled
                    or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
                    or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of
                    the Borrower or  OPTT  to  perform  any of its
                    obligations under such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Project are available
                    to the Borrower or  OPTT from other sources on
                    terms and conditions consistent with the obli-
                    gations of the  Borrower  under this Agreement
                    and of OPTT under the Project Agreement.
     (f)  The AfDB Loan shall  have  failed to become effective by
December 31, 1990 or such later date as the Association may agree;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Asso-
ciation that adequate funds for  the  Project are available to the
Borrower or OPTT from other  sources  on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of  the Borrower under this Agreement
and of OPTT under the Project Agreement.
     (g)  Any representation made by OPTT  in, or pursuant to, the
Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection there-
with, and intended to be relied  upon by the Association in making
the Credit, shall have been incorrect in any material respect.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
     (b)  the event specified in paragraphs  (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified  in  paragraph  (e)  (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
Page  7
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.O1. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.O1 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement  has  been executed by the
Borrower and OPTT;
     (b)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EIB
Loan Agreement except  for  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled;
     (c)  the contract for the local telephone network in Lome and
Kara has been concluded on  terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association; and
     (d)  the  Borrower  and  OPTT  have  concluded  a Performance
Contract satisfactory to the Association.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the  opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by OPTT and  is  legally  binding upon OPTT in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower  and  OPTT and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and OPTT in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement  is  hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04.  The  obligations  of  the  Borrower under Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement  and  the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of Section 5.O2  of  this Agreement shall cease and deter-
mine on the date on  which  the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on  the  date  twenty  years  after  the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.O9 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section ll.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section ll.Ol of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          P.O. Box 387
          Lome
          Togo
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINFIE                            5286
     For the Association:
Page  8
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                    By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Cables and               7,750,000         100% of foreign
     installation                               expenditures
     works
(2)  Specialized                620,000         100% of foreign
     equipment and                              expenditures
     vehicles for
     maintenance
(3)  Tools, spare               230,000         100% of local
     parts and                                  expenditures (ex-
     supplies                                   factory cost) and
                                                80% of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(4)  Consultants'             3,180,000         100%
     services and
Page  9
     training
(5)  Refunding of               390,000         Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (b) of this
                                                Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                230,000
                             __________
     TOTAL                   12,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of  the  Borrower;  provided,  however,  that if the
currency of the Borrower is also  that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in
such currency for such  goods  or  services  shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are:  (a) to support a program
of institutional and  management  improvement  in the telecommuni-
cations sector; (b) to improve  the quality of service to existing
subscribers and  to  extend  the  provision  of  services  to meet
current and projected demand; and  (c) to improve OPTT's financial
performance, with a view to  increasing  the  flow of funds to the
Borrower.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Local Telephone Networks
1.   Expansion of local networks in  Lome  and Kara to meet demand
to the year 2000, consisting of:  (a) civil works for about 30,000
main cable pairs; and  (b)  about 16,000 terminal subscriber cable
pairs in 2 main exchange areas and in 6 subsidiary exchange areas.
2.   Expansion of switching  capacity  by  adding about 12,500 new
direct exchange lines (DELs) in Lome and about 2,500 DELs in Kara,
all with digital equipment.
3.   Construction of  an  optical  fiber  interexchange network in
Lome to accommodate the new  digital switches and interconnect the
new and existing capacities.
4.   Provision of 3 digital  microwave  links in Kara to intercon-
nect the new main exchange with its 3 subsidiary distant units.
5.   Construction of a  large  capacity  digital microwave line to
interconnect the main exchanges of Lome and Kara.
6.   Acquisition  and  installation  of  15  multi-access  digital
Page  10
UHF/VHF radio systems for rural networks with a total capacity for
about 450 subscribers or  public  call offices in distant/isolated
centers around Lome and Kara.
     All of  the  above  including  the  acquisition of equipment,
vehicles, tools and spare parts, the construction of buildings and
the provision of technical assistance.
Part B:   OPTT's Training Center
     Improvement of OPTT's training  center through acquisition of
equipment for office and technical facilities and the provision of
technical assistance.
Part C:   Institutional Development and Management Improvement
     Strengthening of OPTT's capabilities  in the following areas,
with support of technical assistance:
1.   investment program coordination and monitoring;
2.   financial   management   (audit,   projections,   budget  and
treasury, accounting and tariff);
3.   commercial and technical  management (billing and collection,
stocks, planning, subscribers and maintenance);
4.   human resource management (institutional development, manage-
ment training and needs);
5.   management of postal and financial services;
6.   computerization;
7.   development of management information systems; and
8.   telecommunications sector restructuring.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
