Report No 382a-HA                                                                 FILE  COPY
Haiti  Appraisal of a
Third Highway Project
May 6, 1974
Latin America and Caribbean
Projects Department
Not for Public Use
E)ocument of the intemational Bank for Reconstruct3on and Development
International Development Association
Thes report was prepared for official use orly by the Bank Group It may not be published
quoted or citec without Bank Group authoriztron The Bank Group daesr not accept responsibity
for the accuracy or completeness of the report



Currency Equivalents
US$l                         =  0. 5.00
. 1=  US$0.20
. 1 million                 =  US$200,000i
System of Weights and Measures             '
Metric                       British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                  -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =  2,204 pounds (lb)
Fiscal Year
October 1 to September 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AASHO             - American Association of State Highway Officials
BNRH              - Banque Nationale de la Republique d' Haiti
CONADEP           -  Conseil National du Developpement et de la
Planification
HASCO             - Haitian-American Sugar Company
IDB               -  Inter-American Development Bank
IHS               -  Institut Haitien de Statistique
IICA              -  Institut Interamericain des Sciences Agricoles
de l'OEA
INGEROUTE         -  French Consulting Firm
OAS               -  Organization of American States
ODPG              -  Organisation de Developpement de la Plain de
Gonaives
ADDVA              - Organisation du Developpement de la Valley
dtArtibonite
SEPRPN            - Service d'Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier
National
TPTC              - Secretairie d'Etat des Travaux Publics,
Transport et Communications
UNDP              - United Nations Development Program
USAID             - United States Agency for International Development



HAITI
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLIJSIONS ........................   i - ii
1.  INTRODUCTION    ....................................
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR..                                  2
A. General       ....  .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
B. The Transport Modes .             .                3
C.  Transport Policy and Coordination.                5
3.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ........6..6
A.  The Highway Network ....... *... ..... a.6
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic        7
C. Highway Financing and Planning           ..        8
D. Highway Administration....    9
E.  Highway Engineering      ...........          6   10
F.  Highway Construction .............               10
G.  Highway Maintenance ....................  ....  11
H . Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . .. . . ...... . . . ...   . . ..      1 2
4.   THE PROJECT .....................                    12
A.  General Description .... .............. ..0..  12
B.  Cost Estimates, Financing, and Disbursements.   13
C.  Execution .................. .                   15
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION.. ......... ....... .. .... ,17
A.  General ........... . . . . . . ...... . . . . . . . . .1 7
B.  Reconstruction of the Northern Road ....  .....  17
C.  Technical Assistance ........ 6 ..........       20
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...........  21
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. J. Varallyay (Engineer),
H. Beenhakker (Consultant Economist), and R. van Wagenen (Training
Specialist) and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.



TABLE OF CON TZTS (Contd.)
TA3LES
1. Imports and Exports by Ports 1967-1971
2. Public Investment Program 1972-1976
3. Road Network
4.  Vehicle Registration 1966-1971
5. Highway Expenditures 1973-1974
6.  User Charge Revenues for Road Construction
7.  Public Works Organization
8. Maintenance Organization
9.  Prograrmed Training by Organization
10. Northern Road Reconstruction Works
11. Design Standards for Northern Road
12. Proposed Technical Assistance in Transport Sector by Major Function
13. Growth of Principal Cities along the Northern Road
14, Agricultural Production - Gonaives
15. Agricultural Production - Estere
16.  Rates of Economic Return and Traffic on Sections of the Northern Road
17. Predicted Traffic on Northern Road 1977-1996
18. Vehicle Operating Costs on the Northern Road
ANNEX
1. Disbursement Schedule
MAP
Haiti - Proposed Road Project - IBRD 10823



HAITI
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        A substantial part of the economic activity of Haiti is centered
around Port-au-Prince, the capital, and spread along the Northern Road in
the Artibonite and the Gonaives Plains as well as in the Northern Plain,
south of Cap Haitien. Haiti is one of the most densely populated countries
in the world (close to 180 persons per square km), and over 80% of the popula-
tion is rural. The prime transport mode is highways, but the road network,
comprising a total of 3,100 km, is poorly developed and in very bad condition.
Only a 50-km private railway line exists in the country. Coastline shipping
is negligible, and inland water transportation is non-existent. The major
port of the country is located in Port-au-Prince, and it handles more than
90%, by weight, of imports. Air transport is limited to passengers within
Haiti, but the international airport of Port-au-Prince services cargo as well
as passengers.
ii.       The five-year National Development Plan (1972-1976) of the Govern-
ment totaled US$147 million, allocating approximately 28% of these development
expenditures to transport. This allocation was not based on economic project
evaluations or sectoral planning i'aput, and the plan was subsequently replaced
by annual expenditure programs.  In fact, there is no transport planning.  This
is one of the reasons why an important part of the proposed programs has
slipped and, for instance, less than half of the proposed development ex-
penditures were invested during the first two years of the plan. The trans-
port investments proposed within this plan would be devoted to highway re-
habilitation, port improvements and expansion of airport facilities.
iii.      The main element of the proposed project comprises the most urgent
reconstruction works along the Northern Road connecting Port-au-Prince and
Cap Haitien (249 km). The project road serves two of the most important
agricultural production areas of the country in and around the Artibonite
Valley, and it connects the second largest town to the capital. The exist-
ing road is not suitable for present and future traffic needs, especially
since May 1973, when one of the major bridges (over the Estere River) col-
lapsed. Also, passage of vehicles is not guaranteed during the rainy season
at several critical areas. The feasibility study and the final engineering
for the rehabilitation works along the full length of the Northern Road were
prepared by the French consultant INGEROUTE and financed by the UNDP, with
the Bank as executing agency.
iv.       The proposed project also would provide several components of tech-
nical assistance in the areas of transport planning and reorganization of the
Secretariat de Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications (TPTC); assistance
is envisaged for domestic contractors.



- ii-
-.       The oroposed project- would take about two years and would be
execu-,ed under TPTC. Consultan^ts contracted under termis and conditions
accep,i'ale to the Bark would assist in prequalifying bidders and evaluating
bids and would supervise construction.  Construction contracts would be
awarded on a unit price basis after international competitive bidding, follow-i-
ing usual Bank GTroup procedures.  Consulting services for technical assis-ance
4  the areas mentioned above would also be procured by Governmenu on the basis
of terms and contract conditions acceptable to the Bank.
vi.        Major benefits resulting fron the reconstruction works proposed in
the project would be derived from savings in road maintenance and vehicle
operating costs.  The economic return from these works (which are spread along
150 km of the Northern Road)is above 25%; this project enjoys the highest
priority of transportation projects presently being considered for implementa-
tion.  Improved road transport from the Artibonite Valley and from Cap Haitien
to Port-au-Prince would generate important development benefits in the agri-
cultural sector and socio-political benefits through the closer integration
of Cap Haitien with the rest of the country and Port-au-Prince.  Also. the
proposed technical assistance would contribute to institutional improvements
within the transport sector.
vii.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$13.3 million, with
an estimated foreign exchange component of US$10 million (75%) to be financed
by the proposed credit. The usual contingencies for possible increases in
quantities and prices are included. A special contingency of 20% of the
engineer's estimate has been included in the project to cover the risk of
bid prices being higher than estimated; the lowest bid for the relatively
small works of the Estere Bridge reconstruction in December 1973 was more
than 80% above the engineer's estimate, but it may not be indicative, and,
therefore, a much lower percentage was considered appropriate for the road
construction works, The project includes an amount of US$400,000 for retro-
active financing to cover costs of the urgently needed reconstruction of the
Estere Bridge and IJS$100,000 for consultant services prior to credit signature.
viii.     The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$10
million; standard IDA credit conditions are appropriate.



HAITI
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD H1GEIWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.0)1     The Republic of Haiti has requested IDA assistance to help finance
reconstruction of the main road connecting Port-au-?r4nce (the capital) and
Cap Haitien on the norths coast - the Northerri Road. The project would consist
of the most urgent rehabilitation works; consultinlg services for supervision
of construction; and consultirig services for technical assistance covering
transport planning, reorganization of the Ministry of Public Works, Transport
and Communications (TPTC), and assistance for domestic contractors.  The total
cost of the proposed project is estimated at about US$13.3 million equivalent.
The foreign exchange component, US$10 million equivalent, is proposed for
financing through an IDA credit; the balance of US$3.3 million equivalent in
local currency would be provided by the Government.
1.02      This would be the third highway project for Haiti financed by the
Bank Group. In 1956, a Bank loan of US$2.6 million was made to finance a
highway project comprising reorganization and expansion of the maintenance
organization and rehabilitation and intensive maintenance of about 1 ,000 km
of roads. In 1962, an IDA credit of US$350,000 was made to finance the
foreign cost of completing road maintenance and rehabilitation works started
under the 1956 project.
1.03      In spite of these earlier Bank Group-financed projects, the highway
maintenance organization practically disintegrated after 1963, a factor that
is largely responsible for the current bad road conditions in the country.
1.04      In addition to the abovementioned financing by the Bank Group, Haiti
has recently received external financing for a highway maintenance project
from USAID (US$3.7 million) and for rehabilitation of the Southern Road (para.
3.01) from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) (US$22.8 million); addi-
tionally, the Jacmel Road project is under preparation with bilateral assist-
ance from the French Government.
1.05      The proposed project would be the first operation of the Bank Group
in Haiti since that financed by the IDA credit in 1962. The proposed recon-
struction on the Northern Road would concentrate on the worst sections, thus
eliminating existing bottlenecks on one of the two major highways; further-
more, through technical assistance, the proposed project would bring about
sorelv needed improvements in transport planning and in the organization of
TPTC, and should make an important contribution to the domestic contracting
industry.



1.06      Appraisal of the project was based on UNDP-financed economic and
technical studies and detailed engineering prepared by consultants INGEROUTE
(France), on information provided by the Government, and on the findings of
an appraisal mission, comprising Messrs. J. Varallyay (Engineer), H. Beenhakker
(Consultant Economist), and R. van Wagenen (Training Specialist), which visited
Taiti in Septeisber/October 1973. The report has been edited by Mies V. Foster.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  General
2.01      Haiti occupies the western third of the island of Hispaniola; the
eastern two-thirds are occupied by the Dominican Republic. With an area of
27?750 square km, 1/ Haiti is almost equivalent in size to the State of Mary-
land. The topography is characterized by hills and intermont valleys or low-
lands communicating with the sea on the northwestern and southwestern penin-
sulas, and by a large plateau in the central portion of the country. The two
relatively large peninsulas result in a coastline that is disproportionately
long in relation to the area of the countrY, causing distances between the
capital and the extreme north and south to be much shorter by road than by
coastal shipping.
2,02      The population of Haiti increased from 3.1 million inhabitants in
1950 to 4.3 million inhabitants in 1971, reflecting an average annual growth
rate of 1.6%, which is low compared with those recorded in other developing
nations having similar economic and social characteristics. Haiti is one of
the most densely populated countries in the world (about 180 people per square
over 80% of the Dopulation iS rural.  The major population centers are
Pa.-nu-Prince, the capital (507,000); Cap Haitien (55,000); Gonaives (37,000);
Jere.mie (25,000) 9 and St. Marc (21,000). 2/
,,, , 3   H.aiti'3 economy slumped during the period 1960-1968, 'out, in the
last five years, the position has improved, a.nd GDP has been growing at about
,.5 rBer arnnm.  in view of the relatively low rate of growth of population,
,hns reflects a moderate recovery.  Even so, GNP per capita in 1972 (US$120
Der annum) barely reached the 1960 figure, and is still the lowest in the
semisp',he.
^',fii)4  The leading industries are sugar refining in Port-au-Prince, cement
and flour production near Duvalierville and textiles in Gonaives.  Port-au-
Printce is the main center for small basic industries producing shoes, cloth,
baseballs, mattresses, cooking utensils, plastic materials, soft drinks,
cigarettes, cooking oils, perfumes, and soap.
1/   This excludes outlying islands with a total area of about 1,000 square
kilometers.
2/   1971 population statistics.



-3-
2.05      Until recently, there were two mining operations in Haiti:  a bauxite
mine near Miragoane in the southern peninsul.i and a copper mine near Gonaives.
The copper mine has now been closed, but the,bauxite mine is still in pro-
duction. Its operation, however, has little effect on the road system since
the ore is exported through the nearby port.
2.06      Agriculture is the largest single element of the national economy,
and production has increased somewhat during recent years; the national
accounts for agriculture show an increase of only 2.5% in real value added
between 1970 and 1973. This increase is primarily due to increased crop
production for domestic consumption. Development plans for the Artibonite
Plain, for the area northeast of Gonaives and for the area north of the
Estere Rivrer near the Estere Bridge call for a substantial increase in
agricultural production for domestic consumption and exports (para. 5.04),
but it may be difficult to achieve the goals of these agricultural develop-
ment plans without improving the Northern Road.
B.   The Transport Modes
2.07      Despite the poor state of the road network, most transport in Haiti
is carried by road. This is due to the relatively short overland distances
between centers of production, consumption, imports, and exports.
2.08      Agricultural products lead in the demand for transport, followed
by cement and construction materials. Present capacity of the port of Port-
au-Prince and of both the main road network and the feeder roads is inade-
quate to satisfy the demand.
2.09      The sector is currently characterized by the involvement of a number
of international agencies -- IDB, UNDP - and of bilateral assistance from
France and USAID. The structure and working of the institutions in the sector
need improvement, and meetings with Government's participation,are now being
arranged between the agencies involved. The first such meeting should take
place in August 1974.
(i) Railways
2.10      There is no public railway in Haiti.  The only railway still func-
tioning is the narrow-gauge, single-track line, extending 51 miles east from
Leogane via Port-au-Prince to Manneville, owned by the Haitian-American Sugar
Company. It is in poor condition and will be reduced in length when a new
sugar refinery comes into operation shortly.
(ii) Highways
2.11      The highway system and its administration are described in detail
in Chapter 3.



(iii) Air Transport
2.12      Although international air transport of passengers and freight has
recently undergonie rapid development, domrestic air traffic is growing much
more slowly.  COHATA (Hait-Ian Air Trarsport Conpan-y)  which provided domestic
air service until 1972, has isuspended its activities, but expects to operate
again in the near fu.ture, 'Meanwhile, domestic passenger traffic Ls carrie.d
by a foreign com-pany (T urks a-Id  $Ccs, Ahways) under a short-term  agreement.
This company maintains regular fl gbts banieen Port-au-Prince, Cap Haitian,
Port-de-Paix, Jacmel and Les 'Caves wi tC- a-IrcrafE 11-aving capacity for a dozeni
passengers.  The num3er of air passengers is very  ,iw',,T, despite a considerable
time advantage, because of the lowq incwo-.e levels i`n Haiti.  Air Haiti is
another domestic carrier lir4ted to cargo transport to and frocm  the USA. 'The
international airport of Port-au- Prince is capable of handling Boeing 707-type
jet aircraft in all weather conditions ardc servlc:; ng passengers and cargo ae
well.  This major a-irport is admainistered and operated 'oy a semi-autonomaous
Airport Authority; it receives managerial assistanc.e fromr Pan American World
Airways.
(iv) Maritime Transport
2.13      There are 25 harbors along the 5,530 krm of coastline; in most of
themn, onerations are conducted in open waters, oftea under hazardous condi-
tions.  Besides Gonaives and Miragoane, where there are private wharves
specializing in the loading of ore, foreign trade is concentrated, in accord-
ance with Government policy, in the ports of Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien,
both equinped for loading ocean-going vessels.
2.14      The 1967-lQ071 imports and exports by port, shown in Table 1, reflect
the predominance of Port-au-Prince.  This predovdinant role should continue to
increase in the coming years, with the planned enlargement of port facilities
there and improvement of the road.network.  The Admdinistration Portuaire
(Port Administration Authority) ol Port-au-Prince port is directly under the
Jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance, and it is responsible for the finances
and ooeration of the port, including the setting of service charges and
tariffs. A two-phase expansion progrwL began in 1968, and the second phase,
financed by an IDB loan, is expacted to begin in 1974.  Container facilities
already exist and will be lmproved.  The major Government wharf will have an
extension, and the port will be dredged to 40 feet.
2.15       Coastal shipping, mainly by seSLling boat, is significant only along
the northern coast of the southern peninsula. There is practically no traffic
between Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien, due mainly to the fact that the over-
land distances are considerably shorter than that by sea (para. 2.01).  Salt
is shipped from Gonaives to various locations in the country, while a small
quantity of goods, mostly construction material, is Shipped from Port-au-Prince
to Gonaives.  This small trade will probaoly continue to be conducted by sea
in spite of the improvement of the Northern Road. The transport survey to
be carried out under the proposed technical assistance should indicate the
appropriate role for coastal shipping (para. 2.19).



-5-
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.16      The overall policy of the Government is to give priority to trans-
portation and agricultural development within a five-year national development
plan that was prepared by the Conseil National du Developpement et de la Plani-
fication (CONADEP) for the period 1972 through 1976, envisaging a total in-
vestment of US$147 million equiva'Lent, of which 28.1% would be invested in
the transport sector (Table 2). 'This plan was apparently prepared without
the benefit of sectoral plans, and, specifically as regards transport, with-
ouit identifying the demand from the other sectors. TPTC, although charged
with the responsibility of the transport sector, does not prepare a sectoral
plan and, indeed, does not have the capability to do so (para. 2.17). TPTC's
input to the national plan has therefore been limited to commenting on a
list of transportation projects compiled by CONADEP.
2.17      Sectoral planning should be carried out within TPTC.  However, this
cannot be done at present because:
(a)  there is no planning unit within TPTC; even if there were, planning
would be hampered by:
(1) lack of experienced professional staff (currently, in
CONADEP, there is no transportation specialist among the
13 economists);
(2) insufficient transport statistics in general and highway
traffic data in particular;
(3) the fact that economic evaluation has not traditionally
been applied to transportation projects;
(4) the difficulty in obtaining accurate data on user
charges because of the accounting methods used within
the Ministry of Finance; and
(5) the apparent arbitrariness with which user charges are
set by the different agencies and the Ministry of Finance.
(b)  some of the agencies responsible for transport modes are not
directly subject to the coordination of TPTC, e.g.,
(1) the major airport (Port-au-Prince) is operated by a semi-
autonomous agency (para. 2.12);
(2) the major international port (Port-au-Prince) is operated
by an agency of the Ministry of Finance (para. 2.14); and
(3) coastal shipping is not administered by any central
Government agency.



2.18      The Govern-ment should iaddress itself to the deficiencies in trans-
port nlanning, currently bei ng carrie  out by CO!ALEP  parar. 2.16), but which,
preferablv, should be a function or  T'7' s½para. 2.17),. Indeed, some progress
has already been made in that TPTCf prop,osed (Jaruary 1974) an internal reorgani-
zation which envisages a planning unit,  Although international and bilateral
agencies are involved in the sector, none is speciFically concerned with
planning. 1/
2.19      Considering the exist ing Je-e.Ciencies -in transport plannIng and in
view of the limited action iznit-ated so far to rectiJy them, the Goverrnment
has fornally agreed to:
(a) establish a sectoral planning agency unFder TPTC, staffed with
persoznnel recruirted mainl-7y fcroam CNADLP and 7TPTC;
(b)  initiate collection ot data in the transport sector on a routire
basis; and
(c)  undertake a transport survey to provide the sectoral input
for the next five-year natiorna  development plan (1977-
1981) and to train counte.Dar- personnel.
Technical assistance in these three areas would be provided under the proposed
project (para, 4.04)3  Assurances were obtained during negotiations on Gov-
ernment action under (c) preceding, includinpS the signature of a consultant
contract for the transport survey above and the lurnishing of required counter-
part personnel, not later than December 3'D, 1-974, and under (a) and (b) preced-
inga not later than December 31, 19-5.
2,20      The action Government ',0ould nrow take and the technical assistance
proposed would not cover all the deeFicipncies in planning in the sector, but
the limited capacity of GoTvernment to aIbsorb technical assistance precludes
action in all but the most urgent areas at this ti e.
3.  THE H_GHWAY SUBSECp0.
A,  The  ihwaV Network
3.01       Significant road development in Haiti started during the years
1915-1933 when United States Armed Forces were stationed In the country.  With
additional construction, but on a reduced scale since 1933, the total network
of national and departmental roads reached 3,107 km in 1956, of whlich 348 km
wvere paved. During the last 11 years,  however, the state of repair of the
road network deteriorated to such an extent that important regions of the
I/   UNDP} is assisting COINADEP, but in national panning only.



-7-
country have become, in effect, cut off during the rainy season from Port-au-
Prince, the capital; the Northern Road specifically has several sections which
are difficilt in the rains. Subsequent to a transport sector report by OAS
published in 1969, serious efforts were made in 1971 to revitalize highway
transport in the country.  Four major preinvestment studies were prepared
between 1971 and 1973, with buDP funds, Lor the rehabilitation of the Southern
and Northern Roads, for a countrywide road maintenance program, and for
improvement of feeder roads on the soutnwestern peninsula.  As a result, this
proposed project., the Southern Road reconstruction project, 1/ and a followup
maintenance programi 2/ were formulated,anc the lat'er has been in progress
since late 1973.  Bilateral aid is no-w being furnished by the French Govern-
ment for the preparation of the Jacmel Road project,
3.02      An inventory of all roads was preparedLd within the framework of the
UNDP-financed maintenance study in 1972, A totai of 3,166 km of national
and departmental roads were inventoried, of which 303 km are paved (Table 3).
The same studv recommended 405 km for reconstruction and 634 km for rehabili-
tation.  Ihe main road network consists of five highways:  (a) the Northern
Road between Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien, following the coast up to Gonaives
(the main south-north road); (b) the highway linking the Northern Road with the
northwestern region (Port-de-Paix); (c) the Central Road, traversing the cen-
tral region from Croix des Missions through Hinche and Dondon to Cap Haitien;
(d) the Southern Road between Port-au-Prince and Les Cayes on the southern
peninsula: and (e) the highway linking Port-au-Prince with Jacmel on the
southerni peninsula.
B. Chiaracteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      Although the road network continued to deteriorate over the last
11 vears, available statistics indicate that the total vehicle fleet increased
at an average rate of 7% per annum between 1966 and 1971. Total vehicle reg-
istrationa for those years is shown in Table 4; however, the erratic data
obtained suggest very poor statistical evaluati-on, and their accuracy is
doubtful. Nevertheless, the order of magnitude of vehicle density is expected
to range around four vehicles per 15000 inhabitants, one of the lowest in
the hemisphere.
3.04      The adequacy of the vehicle fleet cannot be readily assessed since
the fleet's operation is critically affected by the bad state of roads, to
the extent that all-weather passage of vehicles is not assured on any one of
the T,ajor highiways today.  The vehicle fleet is heavily concentrated around
Port-au-Prince, where approximately 80% is registered.  Cap Tiaitien, the
terminal point of the Northern Road and the second largest city in Haiti,
1,   The Southern Road, connecting Port-au-Prince with Les Cayes, is one of
tlle two major roads in Haiti; it is to be reconstructed with a US$22.4
million IDB loan.
2/   A maintenance program was started in 1973 :ad financed from a US$3.7
Tmillion USAID loan (para. 3,23).



- 8 -
registers only 3.2% of the fleet. This latter percentage could be expected
to increase after reconstruction of the Northern Road. The fleet is largely
in the hands of individual owner-drivers, with the exception of a few commer-
cial trucking companies, including two foreign firms which operate trailers
out of the port of Port-au-Prince.
3.05      Highway transport is not regulated in Haiti.  Because of the absence
of regulations, the owners of commercial vehicles are free to operate, and
their tariffs are set through bargaining; as a result of competition, tariffs
are found reasonably uniform. Recommendations were made in the UNDP-financed
maintenance study to regulate speed, weight, and dimensions of vehicles,
based on norms set by the American Association of State Highway Officials,
including the operation of scales on the highways. The IDB-financed Southern
Road project includes technical assistance to help introduce axle load regu-
lation and control on the Southern Road and to help prepare the necessary
legislation. This will be the first serious step to limit axle loads and,
if properly implemented, should help realize important savings in pavement
construction and maintenance. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained
from  Government  that the legislation to define and control vehicle weights
and dimensions will cover the whole national road network. A further assur-
ance was obtained that Government would take all necessary measures to en-
force this legislation on the national network including, inter alia, not later
than June 30, 1978, or such other date as the Association shall agree, the
installation of weighing scales and training of personnel to operate these
scales.
3.06      There are no import restrictions regarding the source, value, weight,
or dimensions of vehicles. Recently, the import tariffs levied on passenger
cars were increased; this, however, did not affect station wagons. These
aspects of regulation will be, in part, reviewed in connection with technical
assistance under the proposed project.
3.07      Information on traffic levels is scanty; traffic counts were reported
b- an OAS-financed 1969 transport mission, and additional surveys were con-
ducted for the Southern and Northern Road studies in 1972 and 1973, respectively.
Traffic levels on the Southern Road between Leogane and Les Cayes 1/ varied
between 126 and 37 vehicles per day in 1972. On the other major trunk road,
the Northern Road, daily traffic varied between 4,120 and 63 vehicles over
the different sections, according to the 1973 survey. Excluding the metro-
politan area of Port-au-Prince, traffic levels on other national and depart-
mental roads are very low, below 25 vehicles per day, reflecting, in part,
the extremely poor condition of roads in Haiti.
C. Highway Financing and Planning
3.08      Highway expenditures are financed from both the general budget and
the development budget. For example, highway administration expenses are
funded from the general budget, whereas highway maintenance is financed
1/   The portion of the road that is scheduled for reconstruction under the
IDB project.



- 9-
separately from the development budget. Because of a complicated accounting
procedure, it is difficult to determine expenditures for highway project
preparation, construction, maintenance, and administration. Estimates of
such expenditures for the last twc years are shown in Table 5, indicating
that close to 69% of all highway investments in the current fiscal year are
being financed from external sources.
3.09      Highway expenditures in the development budget are funded from user
charge revenues, but, in exceptional cases, Government may allocate other
development funds to assure the required counterpart funds. It is difficult,
however, to estimate the value of total user charge revenues under the exist-
ing accounting system in the budget. Those user charge revenues which are
known to be allocated for highways are shown in Table 6.
3.10      Since considerable difficulties were experienced during the prep-
aration of this proposed project in establishing a clear picture of Govern-
ment's financing of development projects and the utilization of user charges,
the transport survey proposed under the project (para. 2.19) would study user
charges with a view to rationalizing resource allocation for highways.
3.11      Highway planning should be part of the transport sector's contri-
bution to Haiti's overall planning effort for development. At present,
however, TPTC is not engaged in highway planning, and the work of CONADEP
in this respect is not adequate (para. 2.16).
3.12      The highways predominate the entire transport sector and, there-
fore, the required planning should be carried out together with sectoral
planning, preferably within TPTC (para. 2.18). However, for reasons already
identified for the sector (para. 2.17), and which apply with equal force to
highways, highway planning cannot be performed effectively at present.
Assurances obtained from Government during negotiations (para. 2.19) would
cover these aspects of highway planning in addition to general sectoral plan-
ning.
D.   Highway Administration
3.13      TPTC is responsible for highway administration, engineering, and
construction works (Table 7). There is no highway planning, and highway
maintenance is performed through a recently created, semi-autonomous or-
ganization, Service d'Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National (SEPRRN);
see Table 8 and paragraph 3.21.
3.14      Therefore, one of the major structural defects is the fact that plan-
ning and maintenance are not within the administrative framework of TPTC. The
above shortcomings are compounded by the lack of experienced staff in TPTC at
every level, including administration, management, and accounting.'
3.15      The ongoing programs financed by IDB and USAID are expected to deal
with some of these problems: (a) a Coordinating Unit will be set up through
IDB's technical assistance within TPTC for monitoring and supervising the
Southern Road construction; this Unit will also be charged with the administra-
tion of the other major highway projects, including the Northern Road Project;
(b) technical assistance furnished through the USAID project (para. 3.23) is



- 10 -
intended to improve the operation of SEPRRN through strengthening its organiza-
tional structure and administration.
3.16      In view of Government's proposal for reorganization within TPTC
(para. 2.18), and considering the existing deficiencies in highway administra-
tion, outside assistance will be required to implement the proposed restruc-
turing. This restructuring is expected to cover a wide range of organiza-
tional matters, such as the liaison with the semi-autonomous public works
agencies, the emphasis of responsibilities for highways within TPTC, and
the setting up of a planning agency. For this purpose, advisory services in
public works, administration and management would be included in the proposed
technical assistance (para. 4.04). In addition, TPTC should build up a high-
way planning capability within the planning unit recommended for tie transport
sector (para. 2.19). This capability should serve for centralized collection
of traffic data, and it should be adequately staffed for origin and destination
surveys and traffic counts. However, the action recommended and the technical
assistance proposed would not deal with highway maintenance because a nation-
wide maintenance program, with USAID assistance, is currently under way(para.
3.23).
E. Highway Engineering
3.17      TPTC is not engaged in highway engineering in the sense that it
is understood to be an element of project preparation at the stage of tech-
nical feasibility studies or final engineering designs. However, it is highly
desirable that the technical expertise of the staff be improved in this respect,
and the proposed technical assistance would provide some engineering train-
ing in connection with the transport survey.
3.18      Highway design standards do not exist in Haiti, and, at the present
stage of development, there is no need for them. The preparation of each major
highway project requires the development of specific design criteria, but this
assures flexibility for optimizing the design and construction costs for the
varying requirements encountered.
F.   Highway Construction
3.19      There has been no major highway construction since the reconstruc-
tion of the Northern Road between 1952 and 1954, financed by the foreign
contractors who did the work.
3.20      Local contractors specializing in highway construction do not exist,
since all major works were previously done by foreign contractors. There are
about four local firms capable of executing small construction works, but
none of them has had any experience in highway or bridge construction. At
this stage of development of the local contracting industry, a gradual
approach to its strengthening appears to be the most appropriate, and the
project proposes technical assistance in this area (para. 4.04). Consequent-
ly, limited subcontracting arrangements between the international prime



- 11 -
contractors and the local contractors are being encouraged by Government,
Additionally, there have been indic:ations that Haitian contractors are
investigating the possibility of fo:rming joint ventures with firms from
other Caribbean countries.
C. Highway Maintenance
3.21      At present, highway maintenance is the responsibility of SEPRRN,
an organization separate from TPTC, This seni-autonomous organization was
created in March 1972, and it functions under the supervision of an adminis-
trative council, Two of the five council members come from TPTC, including
the Minister himself, TPTC maintains technical control over SEPRRN, and the
Banque Nationale de la Republique d'Haiti (BNRH) controls its financial
affairs. This is the only organization now responsible for highway main-
tenance and is the Government agency responEible for implementing the USAID-
financed maintenance project.
3.22      The staff of SEPRRN has no experience in efficient highway maintenance.
Because of this, and also due to the repayments of previous debts from current
budgetary allocations, SEPRRN was unable, during the first 18 months of its
existence, to carry out routine or periodic maintenance operations, except for
emergency interventions limited to critical sections of the major roads, where
passage of vehicles became impossible. Therefore, the revenues earmarked to
SEPRRN for maintenance have been ineffective, and the extremely bad road con-
ditions in Haiti have so far remained unchanged.
3.23      In order to improve this situation, USAID made a loan to Haiti in
1973, amounting to US$3.7 million, to finance a maintenance program including
technical assistance, the rehabilitation of maintenance shops and recondition-
ing of existing equipment, and the purchase of new equipment. Following an
institution-building approach, the basic capabilities of SEPRRN are expected
to be built up through in-service training in the four highway maintenance
districts along the two major roads between Cap Haitien, Port-au-Prince, and
Les Cayes. Consultants have furnished technical assistance since October 1973,
and a major program review a year thereafter will help plan the remaining
action. Because of the special importance of maintenance of the paved sections
of the Northern Road, not included in this proposed project, the Association
has discussed with Government the specifications of maintenance standards
corresponding to minimum requirements and based on labor intensive techniques.
An assurance was obtained from Government during negotiations that it would
maintain those sections of the Northern Road not included in the proposed
reconstruction in accordance with the specifications already discussed.
Government's performance on this matter will be observed closely during the
execution of the proposed project, and further Bank Group lending in the
transport sector will depend, inter alia, on satisfactory maintenance per-
formance. The risk that construction traffic's limited use of these sections
may demand intensified maintenance efforts has been considered; however,
the financial burden of what it would cost to eliminate this risk by making
the contractor responsible for the maintenance of the same sections did not
appear justified,



- 12 -
H.  Tanin
3.24      No special training for the staff of any of the highway agencies
is planned until the foreign experts arrive under forthcoming IDB and USAID
loans that have already been signed. Details will not be available until
their assessment has been made, but major training needs are provided for in
those loans. Table 9 summarizes the programs, including the IDA proposal.
3.25      Training to be provided under the proposed project is only of the
counterpart type, with one exception: the expatriates who are to establish
the planning unit and undertake the transport survey within that unit (para.
4.04(a)) should, in addition, be encouraged to organize short courses for
their counterparts and any others whom they and the Haitians agree upon.
Those expatriates should be required to have a total of at least seven
counterparts in the planning unit; the expatriates would participate in the
selection of counterparts beforehand and make recommendations for their
placement afterward.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Ceneral     EiRtion
4.01      The proposed project would consist of:
(a)  Reconstruction, including supervision, of seven sections
of the Northern Road, including reconstruction of the
Estere Bridge; and
(b) Technical assistance to (i) help in improving transport
planning- (ii) assist in reorganization of TPTC; and
(iii) assist the domestic contracting industry.
(i) Reconstruction of the Northern Road
4.02      The seven sections selected (see Map) are those where reconstruction
is most urgently required. Details of the sections and of the proposed treat-
ment for each are given in Table 10. The Estere River crosses one of the
sections, and the work proposed on that section includes construction of a
new bridge over the river to replace a 90-year old structure which partially
collapsed in 1973. A brief description of the proposed structure is also
given in Table 10. Reconstruction of the seven selected sections and of the
bridge, together with adequate maintenance of the other sections, would result
in the whole of the Northern Road being passable in all seasons. Reconstruc-
tion of the remaining sections would, however, be necessary in the near future.
4.03      Feasibility studies and final design of the reconstruction were made
by INGEROIJTE (France) during 1973 as part of the study of the Northern Road
financed by UNDP, for which the Bank was Executing Agency; the geometrical



- 13 -
and structural standards used in the design are indicated in Table 11. Labor-
intensive techniques were considered during the study, but, since the major
items of work involved - earthwork and pavement work - are not generally
appropriate for execution by labor-intensive methods, normal equipment usage
has been envisaged in the design.
(ii) Improvements in Transp rt Planning and Reorganization within
TPTC and Development of the Domestic Contracting Industry
4.04      Technical assistance would be provided, in connection with the
proposed project, in order to achieve the above project objectives; more
specifically, the proposed assistance would:
(a) Overcome deficiencies in planning (para. 2.17) and
undertake a transport survey to help formulate a
transport policy and an investment plan for the sector;
(b) Define, and assist in, a necessary restructuring of
TPTC (para. 3.16); and
(c) Assist development of the domestic contracting industry
(para. 3.20). The assistance would cover two major aspects:
(i) management, cost accounting, and financial programming and
analysis, including the preparation of quotations for competi-
tive bidding on civil works, with special reference to highway
construction; and (ii) construction engineering techniques
required for efficient execution of road construction contracts,
job site planning, application of modern management tools for
work programming, and the usage and maintenance of modern
construction equipment. Experienced foreign technicians in
the above two fields would be made available through TPTC to
qualified domestic contractors selected by Government and
agreeable to the Association. The foreign technicians would
work directly with the contractors through several consecutive
short periods during execution of the proposed project and
wiould submit periodic progress reports to Government and the
Association.
Thro technical assistance proposed is indicated in greater detail in Table 12.
The training aspects of the technical assistance are summarized in Table 9.
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements
4.05      The proposed project would cost about US$13.3 million equivalent,
based on costs net of taxes and including contingency allowances, as shown
on the next page.



- 14 -
Foreign
Gourdes Million         US$ Million      Exchange
Foreign Local Total  Foreign  Local  Total   Cost
(1) Reconstruction of seven
sections of the                                                    /1    /2
Northern Road            27.65  9.05 36.70       5.53   1.81  7.34-   75-
(2) Supervision of Xecon-
struction                 3.60  1.20  4.80       0.72   0.24  0.96    75
(3) Technical Assistance         3.00  1.00  4.00      0.60's 0.20  0.80    75
Contingencies
Quantity, 10% of (1) above 2.75  0.90  3.65        0.55   0.18  0.73
Price escalation             8.50  2.80 11.30      1.70   0.56  2.26
/5
Special Risk-               4.50  1.50  6.00       0.90   0.30  1.20
Total Project                   50.00 16.45 66.45    10.00   3.29 13.29
/1   Equivalent to about US$49,000/km.
/2   Although there may be limited participation by the local contracting
industry, probably as subcontractors, the figure of 75% assumes the
reconstruction carried out by foreign contractors.
/3   Based on consultants$ cost of US$5,000/man-month of expert service.
/4   At annual rates varying, during the project period,between 8% and 12%
for the foreign exchange component of reconstruction, between 7% and
11% for the foreign exchange component of consultant services, and at
10% p.a. on local costs.
/5   Not to be cancelled; see paragraph 4.09.
4.06      Reconstruction of Estere Bridge is in progress (para. 4.11), and,
for this elempent of the project, the cost estimate has been based on the con-
tract price (USS508,000). For the remainder of the reconstruction work, cost
estimates were based on the consultants' estimate; these were increased by
about 15% to allow for price escalation in the period between estimate and
returni of bids. The usual quantity and price escalation contingencies were
adepted, h-.ut a special risk contingency was also included because experience
in the bidding for Estere Bridge reconstruction (in which the lowest evaluated
bid - subsequently accepted - was some 80% higher than the consultants'
estimate) indicates that the consultants could not adequately quantify the
risk and difficulty of working in Haiti, as perceived by the contracting



- 15 -
industry. The maximum effect of this factor upon project costs has been
estimated to be 20% of construction cost. Reconstruction of Estere Bridge is
a relatively small work, and the bids may not be indicative of the market
response to the larger work represented by the reconstruction of the seven
road sections. Thus, 80% in excess of the consultants' estimate for road
reconstruction may be unduly pessimistic, and, in the cost estimate (para.
4.05), a special risk contingency of 20% of the engineer's estimate has been
adopted. It should be emphasized, however, that the contingency of 20% was
arrived at without using any statistical risk analysis since no major civil
works contracts were let in recent years in Haiti. If the risk did not
materialize at all, or only partially, the balance of this special contingency,
together with other surplus credit funds,should, with the Association's
approval, be used on the remaining sections of the Northern Road for works
already defined and proved viable in the consultants' final design for the
entire road and procured in like manner; this would assure rapid execution.
4.07      The estimate for supervision has been based on the contract for
supervision that was negotiated between the Government and INGEROUTE in
.arch1 1974. The estimate for technical assistance has been based on the
rates for similar assignments in the transport sector in Haiti. The terms
amid conditions of these services were reviewed during negotiations and they
are acceptable.
14.08     The foreign exchange component of the project would be financed by
the proposed credit of US$10 million equivalent. Financing from the credit
retroactive from January 4, 1974 (a) up to US$400,000 for reconstruction of
Estere Bridge (para. 4.11) and (b) up to US$100,000 for consultant services
for evaluation of precualification documents and bids, and for supervision of
reconstruction, is recommended. Local costs for the entire project would be
met by Government; an assurance from Government to this effect was obtained
during negotiations. The possible sources of funds have been discussed with
Government, which, during negotiations, formally advised the Association of
the main sources of such funds.
4.09      Disbursement of the credit would be made as follows:
(a)  For reconstruction of the Northern Road, on the basis
of 100%" of foreign exchange costs and 20% of local costs
to contractors (Government intends to exempt them from
all taxes in Haiti; hence disbursements on this basis
would represent the foreign exchange component); and
(b) For consultant services, supervision and technical assistance,
on the basis of the foreign exchange cost of such services,
which was estimated at 75% of total costs.
C.   F.xecution
4.10      Project execution would be the responsibility of TPTC.  Specifically,
as regards the technical assistance for planning, TPTC would coordinate with
CONADEP.



- 16 -
4.11      In view of the need for early reconstruction of the Estere Bridge -
the old bridge partially collapsed in 1973, rendering land communications
between Port-au-Prince and the north of the country very difficult - the Asso-
ciation agreed that the work, designed by INGEROUTE, should be bid as a matter
of urgencv. Bidders were prequalified, and international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines was effected between October and
December 1973. Three bids were received - from Canada, France, and Spain -
and the work was awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, Dumez (France), in
January 1974, in the sum of US$508,000. The new bridge is expected to be in
service in December 1974.
4.12      The reconstruction of seven sections would likewise be carried out
on the basis of unit price contracts awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines. The terms and condi-
tions of procurement were agreed during negotiations. This work would be
divided into three lots (Table 10) (estimated cost US$0.8, US$2.9 and US$3.1
million without contingencies) and bidders would have the opportunity to bid
for any combinations of the lots, including the total "package." Prequali-
fication of contractors for these works was opened in January 1974 and sub-
sequently extended to the end of March, 1974.  Fourteen international firms
have been prequalified, representing seven countries, and Government intends
to invite them to bid during the month of May 1974. Reconstruction would
commence before the end of 1974 and could be physically completed early in
1977. No delays are expected in the acquisition of right-of-way.
4.13      Consultant services for supervision and technical assistance will
be provided on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. Government
has negotiated a contract with INGEROITTE for services for supervision, including
the Estere Bridge, and for assistance in prequalification of contractors and
evaluation of bids.
4.14      The Haitian Government requested UNDP to finance the technical
assistance component of the proposed project.  If the UNDP were in a position
to grant the financing requested, the Bank would be executing agency for this
technical assistance. Furthermore, in that case, the amount of US$0.6 million
in the cost estimate (para. 4.05) would, with the Association% approval, be
transferred for additional road works representing about 12% of the basic
reconstruction cost estimates (para. 4.05). Agreement was reached during
negotiations regarding the terms of reference for the technical assistance.
4.15      On the basis of the timetable above for Estere Bridge reconstruction
and for reconstruction of the seven sections of the Northern Road, disburse-
ment of the proposed credit would be according to the schedule indicated in
Annex 1.



- 17 -
5. ECONOMIC FVAILTTATION
A. General
5.01      This economic evaluation concentrates on reconstruction of the
Northern Road (which would represent about 92% of estimated project cost,
with an economic return on the investment of about 25%); quantifiable benefits
are discussed in detail, and an indication is provided of the non-quantifiable
henefits which should result from the work.  A qualitative assessment only
is made of the proposed investment in technical assistance.
B.   Reconstruction of the Northern Road
(i) Description of Area Served
5.()2     Details of the principal cities along the Northern Road, together
with their average annual population growth rates during 1950-1971, are given
in Table 13. These cities are among the fastest growing in Haiti. Recent
economic expansion has, to a large degree, been concentrated in Port-au-
Prince and its environs. The reduced cost of transportation resulting from
the improvement of the Northern Road and the agricultural development plans
presentlv being implemented may contribute to more balanced growth of urban
and rural population. Although the Northern Road project enjoys the highest
priority among highway projects presently being considered for implementa-
tion, the transport survey to be carried out within the proposed project may
verv well indicate that a high priority falls with feeder roads as a
complement to agricultural development.
5.03      The main industries along the Northern Road are:
(a) A flour mill near Duvalierville, current output 120,000 tons
p.a., to be expanded to 279,000 tons p.a. by 1976;
(b) A cement plant, also near Duvalierville, current output
300,000 tons p.a., to be expanded to 350,000 tons p.a. by
1975;
(c) A sugar refinery on the outskirts of Port-au-Prince, current
output 60,000 tons p.a.;
(d) A textile mill, at Gonaives, the output to be tripled from
current levels by 1975; and
(e) A steel mill, presently under construction on the outskirts
of Port-au-Prince.
Tlie flour mill, cement plant,steel mill, and textile factory are the
only ones in Haiti.
5.04      The main agricultural areas along the Northern Road are:



- 18 -
(a)  The Artibonite Plain (20,000 ha), the main rice-producing
area in Haiti (42,000 tons of processed rice in 1972). The
Artibonite Valley Development Organization (ODVA) plans to
double this production by 1980;
(b)  The area northeast of Conaives (2,700 ha).  The Organisation
du neveloppement de la Plaine de Gonaives (ODPC) has received
US$2 million equivalent from the Federal Republic of Germanv,
US$737,000 from the International Coffee Organization and
US$600,000 from the Haitian Government to increase agricul-
tural production in this area. A feasibility study has been
made of the required investments by the Institut Inter-
americain des Sciences Agricoles de l'OEA (IICA). Table 14
shows present and predicted agricultural production of this
area;
(c)  The area north of the Estere River (1,200 ha).  ODPC plans to
increase agricultural production of this area significantly
by 1976 with additional financial support from the Federal
Pepublic of Germany (tUS$7.3 million equivalent); IICA studied
the feasibility of the proposed program. Table 15 shows
present and predicted agricultural production of this area.
The forecasts of Tables 14 and 15 assume the successful imple-
mentation of ODGP's development plans mentioned in the previous
paragraph; and
(d)  The area around Plaisance (between Puilboreau and Camp Coq
along the Northern Road), where the primary products are
coffee and cocoa; 1973 production was estimated at 7,000 and
1,000 tons, respectively. Additional products grown in this
area are sweet potatoes, wanioc, bananas and other fruits.
5.05      Other traffic generators along the Northern Road include quarries
near Ennery and in the Artihonite Plain, charcoal kilns near Gonaives, and
livestock raising near the Estere River.  Additionally, the beaches along the
first 70 km out of Port-au-Prince and those rear Cap Haitien, the panoramic
viexws in the rountains near Limbe and the places of historical interest in
the Cap ITaitien region (San Souci Palace, Laferriere Citadel and the ruins
of the house of Pauline Bonaparte) are generating tourist traffic.
(ii) Traffic on the Northern Road
5.06      Existing traffic volumes using the,Northern Road were established
through field surveys (para. 3.07) conducted within the preinvestment studies,
indicating a wide range of 1973 ADT's from 4,000 just outside Port-au-Prince
to as low as 70 in the northern hilly region close to Plaisance.  For the
economic evaluation, the growth in passenger vehicles (car, jeep, pick-up and
huses) was projected from 1973 daily traffic volumes and, for trucks, from
estimated figures of agricultural and other products. Projections were carried
throtugh the 20-year economic life of the project from 1977 to 1996, inclusive.
Growtth rates vary between 3.9% and 10.0% per annum for the passenger vehicles,



- 19 -
and between 5.2%7 and 6.0%  per annum for trucks (Table 16).  Forecast daily
traffic volumes are shown in Table 17 for 1977-1996 at various sections of the
road.
5.07      Estimates of generated traffic in the forecast were modest (generally
on the order of 15-20% of total traffic) especially of traffic from tourism,
since the project is limited to the most urgent works, thus removing the most
serious bottlenecks but still not providing a road attractive to tourists.
There would be no diverted traffic since alternative routes do not exist.
(iii) Benefits from the Proposed Investment
5.08      Quantifiable benefits from the proposed reconstruction would consist
of savings in vehicle operating costs and reduced maintenance costs of the
highwav. These benefits were calculated for the total projected traffic
throughotut the economic life of the proposed 'investments beginning in 1977,
the scheduled opening year for the proposed works, through 1996 inclusive.
Vehiele operating cost savings would, in the first instance, accrue to the
truckers; since the implemented project will tend to reduce the rate of
increase in road transport cost, the general, public is also expected to
benefit.
5.nf9     The present condition of the existing road, both the paved and the
unpaved sections, would deteriorate if the proposed reconstruction works were
not carried out; deterioration would take place even if maintenance efforts
were to increase. On the basis of field surveys conducted during the pre-
investment studies, this deterioration has been predicted for each section
of the existing Northern Road, assuming several intermediate surface conditions
b-etwr'en paved and gravel roads, and two intermediate levels between gravel
roads and an improved track.
5.10      The operating costs for the five vehicle categories considered, and
for each level of surface condition mentioned above, were calculated through
methods which are standard for highway projects. In this case, however, time
savings of vehicle drivers, passengers, and equipment were not considered;
neither considered were the effects of a possible reduction in the number of
accidents. Base operating unit costs are shown in Table 18; they compare
well with figures for other Caribbean countries.
5.11      The reconstructed sections of the road would require maintenance,
but its cost would be substantially less than that which would be necessary if
the proposed improvements were not made. Reductions in maintenance costs were
calculated considering the length of each section, and the corresponding
savings were determined for 20 years. A simplified maintenance formula was
used, however, in which variations in traffic volume were not considered.
(iv) Economic Returns
5.12      For the evaluation of the economic returns, the initial investment
cost was taken as the estimated construction cost (US$8.71 million equivalent
for the seven sections, including the Estere Bridge), together with the con-
tinpencv allowance for quantity increase (10%) and the estimated cost of



- 20 -
supervision. Construction was assumed to coimmence in 1974 and to be completed
by earlv 1977.
5.13      Further investment costs had to be considered during the 20-year
economic life of the reconstructed sections due to: (a) the need to replace
several existing structures approximately 10 years hence; and (b) the need for
future strengthening of the proposed pavement structure in view of the growing
traffic volumes to be serviced. This staging concept for pavement construction
has been applied in three of the seven project sections.
5.14      The economic rate of return was co:nputed on the basis of the full
stream of benefits and initial and supplemen:ary investment costs. The
retturns, given in Table 16, show that the reconstruction works, including the
Fstere Bridge reconstruction, would have an overall rate of return of 25%,
ith the various sections ranging between 12% and 30%.  Benefits and costs
were discounted over the period 1974 through 1996, including the two-year
construction period and the 20-year economic life. Sensitivity analyses
testing the rate of economic return of the whole project (25%) gave an overall
project return of little less than 22%, assuming 15% cost overrun and a
corresponding slippage of benefits.
5.15      In addition to quantifiable benefits, important indirect benefits
are also expected. These comprise general development benefits in other
sectors of the economy, occasioned by improved transportation over the re-
constructed road and the important socio-political effect of integrating the
second largest town, Cap Haitien, more closely with the rest of the country.
C.   Technical Assistance
5.16      The technical assistance for transport planning should help ensure,
through implementation of the transport survey and the setting up of the
planning unit, that future investments in the sector would maximize socio-
economic benefits. In addition, the Haitian counterpart trainees (Table 9)
mav, in future years, advise planning officials concerned with other sectors
of the economy regarding sound principles of project identification, evalua-
tion, planning and programming.
5.17      The technical assistance for advisory services to the TPTC is expect-
ed to contribute to a more efficient and adequate organization that can be
increasingly responsive to the administrative, planning, and operational re-
quirements of an integrated transport system, including all the semi-autonomous
agencies attached to the TPTC.
5.18      The technical assistance to local contractors is expected to improve
the entrepreneurial and engineering capabilities of the firms selected for
this program, thus building up the local industry. This process may eventually
reduce foreign exchange requirements in connection with civil works construc-
tion.



- 21 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government an
the follovqing points:
(a)  establishment of a sectoral planning unit under the TPTC
not later than December 31, 1975, adequately staffed (paras.
2.19, 3.12);
(b) collection of highway traffic data on a periodic basis
beginning not later than December 31, 1975 (paras. 2.19,
3.16);
(c)  signature of consultant contract for execution oF a transport
survey to provide the sectoral input for the next five-year
national development plan and furnishing of the required
counterpart personnel not later than December 31, 1974 (paras.
2.19, 3.12);
(d)  extension of legislation for vehicle weight control, to cover
all tbe national road network and, further, all necessary
Eaeasures to enforce this legistation including, inter alia.
not later than June 30, 1978, or such other date as the Associa-
tion shall agree, installation of weighing scales and training
of personnel to operate these scales (para. 3.05);
(e) undertnlring of maintenance of paved sections of the Northern
Road, not included in the project, in accordance with specifi-
cations discussed (parae 3.23); and
(f)  meeting of local costs for the entire project by Government
and an indication of the sources of the required funds
(para. 4.08).
6.02      Agreement was reached with Government during negotiations on terms
and lprocedcures for retaining consultants for technical assistance (para, 4.14)
for (a) transport survey (para. 2.19); (b) public works administration and
management within TPTC (para. 3.16); and (c) domestic contractors (para. 3,20).
In addlition, terms and conditions for procurement of civil works were agreed..
6.03      The project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
USA10 million; standard IDA credit conditions are appropriate.
May 6, 1974






HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Imports and Exports by Ports 1967-1971
(Thousands of metric tons)
1967               1968                1969                1970                1971
Ports          Imports  Exports  Imports  Exports   Imports  Exports   Imports   xports   Imports  Exports
Fort Liberte          -         8.1       -        8.4        4.7      8.6       2.9       7.2       1.4       2.6
Cap Haitien           -        3.9        -        3.8        1.6      3.7       o.6       3.5       2.5      11.8
Port-de-Paix          -        1.2        -        0.1        0.7      0.1       0.3       0.1       0.9       1.5
Gonaives  1/          3.6     10.5        2.1      9.3        0.3      8.1       ?.4       9.0       0.4      10.2
St. Marc              -         -         -        -          0.4      -         0.9       -         1.2       -
Port-au-Prince      173.7     73.2      207.2     62.2      228.8     51.1     240.8      61.9     274.8      64.9
Petit Goave           -        1.2        -        1.4        -        1.6       -         1.7       -         0.1
Miragoane  2/         9.3    372.4        4.8    473.8        4.7    765.2       0.2    650.5        9.0    758.4
Jeremie               -        0.1        -        1.3        -        1.5       -         1.0       -         1.8
Cayes                 1.1     15.3        -       15.4        1.5     15.5       2.5      14.9       1.5      12.4
Jacmel                -        1.3                 1.8        -        2.2       _         1.6       -         2.2
TOTAL           187.7    487.2      214.1    577.5     242.7    857.6      250.6    751.4      291.7    865.9
1/  Between 45 and 50% of the Gonaives exports consisted of copper.
2/ Approximately 94% of the Miragoane exports consisted of bauxite.
SOURCE: Rapport Annual de l'Administration Generale des Douanes, 1967-1971.
February 1974



TABLE 2
HAITI
THIRD HIGH'WAY PROJECT
Public Investment Program
(Gourdes Millions)
Development Plan 1972-1976
1.   Economic Sectors               Local      Foreign       Total      1975-1979
Energy                          33.5        33.5         67.0         61.2
Transportation                  70.0       137.0        207.0        388.6
Telecommunications               9.0        18.0         27.0         35.0
Agriculture                    130.0        50.0        180.0        171.0
Industry                        10.0        17.0         27.0         45.o
Tourism                         14.0        21.5         35.3         23.0
{Subtotal          266.5        277.0       543.5         723.8
2.   Social Sectors
Health                          12.0        34.0         46.0        112.0
Education                       20.0        41.0         61.o         77.0
Community Development            4.0         2.0          6.0        100.0
Water Supply                     8.0        22.0         30.0         62.0
Subtotal           44.0         99.0       143.0         351.0
3.   Pre-Investment Studies          30.0         20.0        50.0         ',2.0
Total             340.5        396.0       736.5       1,126.8
1/ Current estimates by IBRD.
SOURCE: CONADEP and updating report on the Economy of Haiti, IBRD, 1974.
March 1974



TABLE 3
HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Network 1/
Type                              Kilometers
Asphalt and Concrete                          286
Set Stone and gravel 2/                     1,143
Paving Stone (large blocks)                    17
Earth                                       1,711
TOTAL             3,156
1/  Source:  Bases et Priorites des Programmes Sectoriels
1971-1976, CONADEP.
2/  There is some uncertainty as to how much of this kilometrage
is set stone; a detailed maintenance inventory by INGEROUTE
(1973) shows 711 km so that there should be at least that
much set stone.
February 1974



HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PRROJBCT
Vehicle Registration 1966-197J./
1966              1967              1968                1                 1970               1971
Car               6,361   (63.6)    8,611  (66.4)   12,832   (77.3)   12,875   (78,5)    10,601   (73.4)   10,321   (67.1)
Jeep                694     6.9)    1,026  ( 7.9)    1,123   ( 6.7)    1,085   ( 6.6)        1,080   ( 7.5)    1,378   ( 9.0)
Pickup            1,350   (13.5)    1,691  (13.0)       891   ( 5.3)       779   ( 4.7)        896   ( 6.2)    1,601   (10.4)
Bus                 176   ( 1.7)       200  ( 1.5)      152   ( 0.9)       115   ( 0.7)-       221   ( 1.5)       135   ( 0.9)
Truck             1,039   (10.3)    1,112  ( 8.6)    1,256   ( 7.6)    1,192   ( 7.3)        1,213   ( 8.4)    1,484   ( 9.6)
Motorcycle          409   ( 4.0)       340  ( 2.6)       372   ( 2.2)      372   ( 2.2)        438   ( 3.0)       455   ( 3.0)
Total            10,029  (100.0)   12,980 (100.0)   16,624  (100.0)   16,418  (100.0)    14,449  (100.0)   15,374  (100.0)
/  Source:   Organization of American States Mission (1969), Institut Haitian de Statistique (1971) and
Armed Forces of Haiti (1973)
February 1974
I!F



TABLE5
HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
/1
Highway Expenditures 1973-1974
1972/1973      1973/197)4
Operating Budget TPTC                        1.86            2.26
f4aintenance Budget SEPRRN                   0.46            0.50
Road Construction Investments
- National                               -             0.53
- Foreign                                -             1.23
Technical Assistance
- National                              0.07           0.08
- Foreign                               0.23           1.12
TOTAL                2.62            5.72
1/ Millions of US$
SOU RCE: Appraisal Mission; General and Development Budget of Haiti
for the years shown.
February 1974



TABLE 6
HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
/1
User Charge Revenues for Road Construction
1967/68    1968/69    1969/70    1270/71    1971/72
/2
Gasoline Gallon            1.86       10.27       8.75        9.13       9.38
Revenues          0-75        3.63       3.59       4.00        4.22
/2
Diesel Oil Gallon           1.61       8.98      10.06       14.85      15.o4
Revenues          0.24        1.00       0.95       1.36        1.33
Total Revenues              0.99       4.63       4.54        5.36       5.55
_/ Millions of _S$
2/ Millions of US gallons
SOURCE:  General and Development Budget of Haiti and Updating Report
on the Economy of Haiti, IBRD, 1974.
February 1974



HAITI
Third Highway Project
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communication, TPTC
SECRETARY OF STATE
SUB-SECRETARY
|   CHIEF ENGINEER
|   EXECUTIVE   l                              |N DIRECTOR TECHNST
|   ENGINEER    l|C COUNCL 
DIETRT             DIETRT*IETRT                                     DIRECTORATE                       DIRECTORATE
STUDIES ADCONTROL DEE.                          ADIRCONRATIN           DEPARTMENTAL AND                 REGIONAL
STUDIES   CONTROL & SUPERV.   ADMINISTRATION         COMMERCIAL SERVICES              DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENTS    SOUTH
;    URBANISM   _    INSPE~CTONTROAMIITP1LO                      NORTH-EAST|                    _    EPO5AN
NORTH-WEST     DISTRICTS
ARTI BON ITE
. _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTRAL                                  ST-MARCr
_    STUDIES AND   r  CONTrROL ELEC.     _    ACCOUNTING           WSPTGAE|                           MUNICIPAL     |
_    DESIGN      _   POWE~~:R PLNT       _    AND PAYMENT          SOUTH-WEST|
lPROJ IMPLEM.                                                                                         GEODESiCS, MAPPING_
LAND ACQUIS.           LABORATORIES                ARAGE                                              AND SURVEYING
World Bank-8567



HAITI
Third Highway Project
Organization Chart of the Permanent Maintenance
Service for the National Road Network SEPRRN
SECRETARY OF STATE T.P.T.C.                                NATIONAL BANK OF HAITI
ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL
TRANSPORT SYNDICATE                                         TECHNICAL ADVISERS - ONE FROM T.P.T.C.
-I
|GENERAL DIRECTORS            SEREARA
FINANCE             TECHNICAL             GARAGE                CONTROL          LDISTRICTS
PORT-AU-PRINCE
ST. MARC
_    RECEIPTS  _   PROGRAMING            MOVING PARK                                  GONAIVES
PORT DE PAIX
CAP HAITI EN
HINCHE
SUPPLIE                      KSHOPS                                  PETIT GOAVE
JACMEL
LES CAYES
JEREMIE (PLANNED)
_   PAYMENTS                                                                             B E O
World Bank-8566    co



HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
gtg____________d                 /1iLiLtE 
PrRrme  Traini.2~g   OrRaniization
TJSAID Loan                          IDB Loans                            IDA Proposedi Credit
Economists, in transport survey as uounter-
CON ADEP                                                                             parts; but whether these will be in CU PADEP
o;' in TPTC at tinc of train ng or fina'l -
District staffs will    2/ Several categories provided for;           signment depends upon possible reorgani-
benefit from major       training of weight controllers.              zation ofTPTCaffecting relationship with
TPTC           training effort within  On-site.                                      CONADEP. On-site counterparts.
SUPRR1 (below).
Organization specialist counterpart.
3/ Major training of
equipment operators and
SEPRRN        mechanics and counter-
part training at other
levels. On-site.
hi Major training of executive and
operational staff at various levels
Port Authority                          in connection with reorganization,                           None
partly by counterpart method. On-site
mainly, but some fellowship provision.
1/ Technical assistance to domestic contractors is also proposed under the credit, but not shown here.
T/ IDB's loan for the Southern Road includes n-ne man-years of resident foreign experts in its $600,000 Technical
Assistance allocation. Of the five experts proposed, one is "'Training Expert" for one year. In addition, there
will be an IDB proiect resident representative. There would also be an engineering firm and a management firm,
or a single combination of both.
3/  ITSAJID's loan for nationwide highway maintenance (concentrated at first in four distri.cts) is mainly a training loan,
with equipment. included.  It includes 17 man-years of Technical Assistance from six resident foreign spec,ialists and
a few short-term consult,ants9 t-ro man-^years of which are fior a "Training Specialist." IJSAID also has a l.ong-gt.eTr1
resident representatIve in Port-au-Prince.
)1/ TD9's loan IJo the APP has a large training component at almost every staff lc,7el.  Of tho 19 man-years of foreign
resident experts, almriost two years are for a Training Specialist and another two man-years are allocatod for ar.
A.dviser on Personnel Mlatters and another man-year for an Adviser on Management and Administrative mak,ters.
Source: Appraisal lMission.
Swebruary 197h



HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Nlorthern Road Re cons'truectio n Works
Estimated Cost /2      Contract
Section                     xis tin  Roa,d                          Proposed lvTorks /         (1000 x Us$.)=     Sectiotn /
km 1344-km 17.3         Gravel road through swamp                   Realignment                   373
km 31.4km 43.2          Very bad pavement                           Reconstruction                403
km 57                   Damaged embankment                          Box culvert and approach       30
km 60                   Damaged embankment                          Box culvert and approach       30
Sub-total      _7              Lot A
km  70.3-km 128.9       Very bad pavement and Artibonite Plain    Reconstruction. re-
low embankment                              alignment and pave-
ment strengthening         2,814
km 145.5-km 147.5       Disintegrated pavement                      Reconstruction                127
Sub-Total    2,947              Lot B
km 175,0-km 201.4       Very bad set stone                          Reconstruction              1,005
km 201.4-km 249.0       Pavement &* desintegrated
pavement surface                            Realignment                 2 050
Sub-Total                      Lot C
Es-tere Bridge          90-year old steel truss super-              75 meter, three span                          Contract let
at km 122.2             structure and collapsed pier                reinforced concrete                           January 25,
girder bridge                508             1974
TOTAL     7,340
1/ Recons'uru.ctiori and pavement streagthening will be based on staged pavement design allowing to minimize
initial investment costs by scheduling successive overlays six and thirteen years after completion of the
proposed works.
2/ Net of tcxes, updated to July 1974, without quantity and price escalation contingencies.
2/ Bids will be received for each of three lots or any combination thereof, including the total package,
SOURCE: Appraisal i4ission
May 1974



TABLE 11
HAITI
THIRD HIGEWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Northern Road
Terrain
besipn Parameters                  Flat        UndulatinR        Mountainous
Horizontal
Maximum cross slope (%)               7               7                 7
Minimum radius       (m)            240             120                40
Vertical
Maximum grade        (%)              4               7                 8
Minimum radius       (m)          4,500           1,600               500
Breaking distance   (m)              60              35                15
Stopping distance   (m)
- on tangent                    105             70                 40
-, on curve                     120             80                 45
Sight distance       (m)            325             250               150
Design speed    (km/hr)              80              60                40
Width of travelled way:       5.50 - 7.00  m
Width of shoulers:            0.50 - 3.00  m
SaJ^RrS,3: INLIGER0IE2E Final Feasibility Report, September, 1973.
February 1974



TABLE 12
HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed Technical Assistance in Transport
Sector by vajor Function
IDA Proposed Credit
- Execute transport survey covering all modes in the
sector and formulate investment plan for 1977-1981
Transport Planning             for entire sector with special reference to highways;
evaluate role of coastal shipping; and study specifi-
cally feeder road projects.
- Within transport survey, study collection and allocation
of user charger with a view to financing proposed
investment plan.
- TWlithin transport survey,study existing regulation and
evaluate requirements.
HIighway Planning
-  Make recommendations for setting up a Transport
Planning Unit within TPTC; and
- Train counterpart personnel later to be assigned as
permanent staff of Planning Unit.
-  Furnish full time advisor on public works administration
and management to review reorganization proposed by
TPTC, evaluate requirements considering predominant role
of highways in transport and all existing semi-autonomous
Public WMorks Reorganization   agencies, and draw up a plan of action for approval;
subsequently, advise TPTC to implement reorganization.
-  Coordinate plans for setting up of Transport Planning
Unit.
- The assistance would cover two major aspects: (a)
management, cost accounting, and financial programming
and analysis, including the preparation of quotations
for competitive bidding on civil works, with special
reference to highway construction; and (b) construction
Domestic Highway               engineering techniques reauired for efficient execution
Contractors                  of road construction contracts, job site planning, ap-
plication of modern management tools for work program-
ming, and the usage and maintenance of modern construction
equipment.  Experienced foreign technicians in the above
two fields would be made available through 'rPTC to quali-
fied domestic contractors selected by Government and
agreeable to the Association. The foreign technicians
would work directly with the contractors through several
consecutive short periods during execution of the pro-
posed project and would submit periodic progress reports
to Government and the Association.
Source: Appraisal Mission.
March 1974



TABLE 13
HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Growth of Principal Cities along the Northern Road
Population (in thousands)      Average Annual
City                        1950             1971         Growth Rate
Port-au-Prince                  151.9           5o6.5            5.9 %
Cap Haitien                      29.4            54.7            3.0 %
Gonaives                         17.9            36.7            3.5 %
5.it  :, rc                      11.4            20.5            3.0 %
'L, ir e                          3.9             6.5            2.5 %
Plaisance                         3.0             4.o            1.5 %
SOURCE: Institut Haitien de Statistique
February 1974



HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Agricultural Production - GonaiveS
(Thousand Metric Tons)
Y E A R S
PRODUCT        1                                                                 Averase Annual
_ 1973    1974   1975    1976      1977    1978      1979   1980  Mt4     M -80_
_____              __            _ __   _      _    ___
Cotton         3.30    4.50   4.70    5.10    5.30    5.40    5.50    5.50            7.6%
Kidney Beans   0.03    0.09   0.33    0.60    0.72    0.72    0.72    0.72           59.0%
Corn           0.04    0.29   0.78    1.62    2.04    2.04    2.04    2.04           75.0%
Vegetables     0.13    0.72   3.00    7.20    2.00   16.00   16.00    6.00          100.0%
Uanioc         0.48    0.48   0.72    1.20    1.44   1.80    1.80    1.80            21.0%
12/ Tomatoes, eggplants and onions
Source: Government estimates revised by Appraisal Mission, 1973.
February 1974



K.L.ITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Agricultural Production - .Este're
(Thousand Metric Tons)
YEARS
-*                                                                                   Average Annp,u.
PRODUCT          1973       197)4      1975      1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      Growth Rates.'
Bananas            -         -          -        0.84       o.84      0.98       1.140      1.40           13.6%
Corn             0.08       0.08       0.08      0.35       0.20      0.68       o.68       0.70           36.0%
Sorghum-/        0.05       0.06      0.07       0.10       0.e5       -                -            -
Cotton2/           -         -          -         -         0.08       -          -         0.12           14.5%
Tobacco            _         -          -         -         0.06      o.i4       0.26       0.28           47.0%
Kidney Beans       -         -          -        0.14       1.15      0.18       0.18       0.18            6.5%
VegetablesY/       -         -          -        0 .48      1.80       3.70     41.90      14.90           80.0%
1/  Development plans  all for the phasing out of sorghum production after 1977.
2/  The production of cotton is planned every third year, starting in 1977 (rotation of crops).
3/ Tomatoes, eggplants and onions.
4/ During period applicable to product.
Source:  Government estimat,es revised by Appraisal Mission, 1973.
Fel,ruavry, 2 T74



HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rates of Economic Return and Traffic on Sections of the Northern Road
Average Annual Growth Rates of AADT of
Economic Rate     Pass.   Jeeps   Pick-ups   Buses   Trucks   All Vehicles
Section                 of Return        cars            & Vans
Km 105.5 - 122.8         18.0 %           9.1%    4.0%     3.5%       4.6%     5.3%        5.3%
Km  13.4 -  17.3         17.1 %          6.5%    5.0%      5.0%       5.2%     6.0%        4.7%
Km  31.4 - 43.2          20.2 %           6.5%    5.0%     5.0%       5.2%     6.0%        5.7%
Km  70.3 - 105.5         30.4 %          7.6%    4.6%      4.0%       4.8%     5.3%        5.2%
Km 122.8 - 128.9         26.2 %          9.1%    4.4%      4.4%       5.5%     5.2%        5.8%
Km 145.5 - 147.5         11.7 %          9.1%    4.4%      4.4%       5.5%     5.2%        5.8%
Km 175.0 - 249.0         13.7 %         10.0%    3.9%      4.4%       5.2%     6.0%        6.3%
Total (inc.Est.Brdg.)   25.5 %            601%    4.7%     4.9%       5.1%     5.6%        5.4%
1/  Kilometer references indicate the number of kilometers on the Northern Road measured from              m
the beginning of this highway at the outskirts of Port-au-Prince.
2/ Over the period 1977-1996.
SOURCE: Appraisal Mission
February 1974



HA- T T
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Predicted Traffic on Northern Road 1977-1996
Projected ADT's 1/
Car           Jeep         Pick-up        Buses        Truck       Total ADT
X eton  7 L497?Z 2 LT   )2Q7    9 7   1996   127   1226          19      27   1226-
Croix des Missions (7.4)-
Duvalierville (31.4)               359     1001    67    169    249   678    280   734    211   659   1166  3191
Duvalierville (31.4) -
St. Medard (43.2)                  359     1001    67    169    249   678    280   734    131   339   1086  2871
St. Medard (43.2) - St. Marc (93.7) 122       402      49    123     43   107    164   443    131   339    509  1414
St. Marc (93.7) - Soute
Bridge (105.5)                     48      209     46    105    100   197    165   397    133   345    492  1253
Soute Bridge (105.5) -
Estere Bridge (122.8)               32     168      35     73     46    88    107   252       90   239    310   820
Estere Bridge (112.8) -
Gonaives (147.8)                    33     173      40     90     29    66      53   148      81   212    236   689
Poteaux (160.0) - Ennery (178.0)       15     104      16     30      16    29      27    67     51   147    125   377
Ennery (178.0) - Plaisance (201.4)   14       102      10     21       o    13     15    48      51   147      96   331
Plaisance (201.4) - Cap
Haitien (2)49.0)                    21     130      18     37       8    18     50   131      39   117    136   433
1/  Generated traffic; component has been computed of 1981.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2/  Year of opening of reconstructed sections.
NOTE:  Numbers in brackets refer 'o km of distance from Port-au-Prince.
Source: Appraisal mission.
February 1974



TABLE 18
HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs on the Northern Road
(Net of taxes, US cents)/km)
Car          JeeP                         Bus         Truck
Northern Road
Paved         5.33          6.93           6.26          8.75          9.39
Gravel        7.81          9.97          10.31        14.17          15.04
Track        11.81         15.12          16.60        22.60          25.79
Southern Road
Paved         5.9).         7.69           6.95        13.50          i .49
Gravel        8.66         11.06          11.44         21.87         15.77
Track        13.10         16.77          18.42         34.88         39.80
j/ Time value not considered, calculated for average existing alignment.
Source: Two reports by INGERPJTE:
-  Rehabilitation de la Route Port-au-Prince-Cap Haitien,
Draft Final Feasibility Report, 1973;
- Feasibility Study of the Port-au-Prince-Les Cayes Road, 1972.
February 1974



ANNEX 1
HAITI
THIRD HIGHWAY P3JJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                          at End of Quarter
*  and Quarter Ending                        (US$ Thousands)
197)4/975
September 30, 1974                                  400
December 31J 1974                                  800
March 31, 1975                                   1,000
June 30, 1975                                    1,000
197 51976
September 30, 1975                                 800
December 31, 1975                                1,000
March 31, 1976                                   1.,000
June 30, 1976                                    1,000
1976/1977
September 30, 1976                                 800
December 31, 1976                                1,000
March 31, 1977                                     600
June 30, 1977                                       600
Assumptions:  Estere Bridge Completed           December 1974
Bids for Civil Works Evaluated   September 1974
Credit Effectiveness              August 1974
Contractor's Mobilization         October 1974
Construction Completed            January 1977
Source: Appraisal Mission
February 1974






INN'  N                                                             III                                             '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                               12~~~~~~A NI A  ITI' /
A  I A N T I'CA0TI   AN   TIC
CUBA-
N II~MOLE ST NICOLNS                                            1         1UN-
1~~(~~NMNII4  I   -   7IRRTN SIlO  -                                                                                              Pl,I No gNI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  CAP-NUINIEN                           MN,C0,,IIe'~~'A-.ATIE
P-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
N 8 [,I, 'IINIS'l                                                                                                                                                                                                            0., II/lCI dl'  1  N.,d L II C~
HAI TI1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          /
GONA   r5                                                      "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS
PROPOSED ROAD PROJECT'
PROPOSED PROJECT COMPONENTS
PROPOSED DEGEN'T WORKS                                                                                                                                                         D-
ESThERE ERIDGF
ESTERE UNIDOL DETOUT
EXISTING FEATURES
-ASPHALT ROADS
_____IRAVEL ROADIS
NI              ~~~DIRT ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                  CI1                                               lC>Q I
DEPARTMENT ROUNDARIES
- INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                     II,I IIsRILP'
IN    U    IS  SD   SN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11AN                                                                                                                       .
R-bl,N     JNDSNWN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Z  
DII-NMI             MIlI
I'll Asse  A  5   I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                                                                                                       K-'~~.  I
Il                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I4N,
''S ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     -
P,'  SI, J-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ill IThb~~~~SSlIs  I'SNN'PNIIII                                                                    8        IC    A           MIzllAE
IINIIIIl4  TN'110, NIq',o                                  Coo, l's                                                                                          "     5                                      -'1'                                       /1'A1
'1'-Q1P'lI-lI-I'~~~~NlllI                  .57'1              4.                                                                                                                             2IoN'   4 j 510



