CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 478 HA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
0
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 6, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 478 HA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 6, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being heieinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "TPTC" means Secr9tairie d'Etat des Travaux Publics, Transports et
Communications, a department of the Borrower; and
(b)   "SEPRRN" means Service d'Entretien Permanent du Rgseau Routier
National, a separate entity in the administration of the Borrower, charged with
highway maintenance.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such 'Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost


﻿4
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services
(other than consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 3 1, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I%) per annun on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
November 15, 1984, and ending May 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the prequalification of
contractors, the recommendations for award of contracts and the supervision of
construction of the highway sections forming Part A of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the general design standards to be used for the highway sections included
in Part A of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ or cause to be employed technical assistants acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1974, or such other
date as the Association shall agree, take all steps necessary to employ the technical
assistants referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section to carry out Part B(i) and
(ii) of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the


﻿6
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1975, or
such other date as the Association shall agree, establish, and thereafter maintain
and adequately staff, a transport sector planning unit under TPTC.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause its national highway system to
be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for that purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the maintenance of those sections
of the Northern Road which are not to be reconstructed under Part A of the
Project in accordance with the plan agreed to between the Borrower and the
Association, as such plan may be amended by further agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.04. It is the Borrower's intention to collect and record, in
accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures and on a regular
and systematic basis, such information concerning road traffic, road construction
and maintenance costs as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of
maintenance, improvements and extensions of its road system. As a first step
towards this goal, the Borrower shall, starting not later than December 31, 1975
or such other date as the Association shall agree, carry out periodic traffic counts
and origin-and-destination surveys on its national highway network and major
departmental roads.


﻿7
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than December 3 1, 1976,
or such other date as the Association shall agree, adopt highway regulations and
take all necessary measures to ensure enforcement of the said regulations, to ensure
at all times that the dimensions and axle loads of the vehicles using its roads do
not exceed limits consistent with the structural and geometric design standards
of such roads.
(b)   The measures referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section shall include,
inter cilia, the installation of weighing scales and the training of personnel to operate
the said scales, not later than June 30, 1978, or such other date as the Association
shall agree, at appropriate locations on the Borrower's national highways.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. The Association may, upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Sections 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions and the continuance
thereof for the period, if any, specified for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
or (ii) declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the nterest and other charges thereon.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date September 5, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of State for Finances and Economic Affairs of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿8
For the Borrower:
Secrdtairie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Eccnomiques
Palais des Finances
Port au Prince
Haiti
Cable address:
Secr6tairie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Port au Prince
Haiti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By /s/ E. Bros
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             9o of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Civil works                                        100% of foreign
expenditures and
20% of local
expenditures
(a)   road recon-               5,105,000
struction
(b)   reconstruction              425,000
of the Est6re
Bridge
II.   Consultants'                     720,000           100% of foreign
services                                           expenditures
111.  Technical assist-                600,000           100% of foreign
ance                                               expenditures
IV.   Unallocated                    3,150,000
TOTAL               10,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.


﻿10
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures incurred after January 1,
1974, (i) in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $400,000 in
respect of Category I(b); and (ii) in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $100,000 in respect of Category 11.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet such estimated
shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) with respect to Category I only, if such reallocation cannot fully meet
the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿*                                 11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    Civil works
(i)         The reconstruction of the sections of the Northern Road listed
in the Exhibit to this Schedule, totalling approximately 150 kin,
as such Exhibit may be amended from time to time by further
agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(ii)        The reconstruction of the Estere Bridge.
B.    Studies, training and technical assistance
The utilization of about 80 man-months of technical assistance to:
(i)         complete a study of the transport sector in Haiti, including the
user charges system, and including recommendations for an
investment plan in the transport sector for 1977-1981;
(ii)       train counterpart personnel during the carrying out of the study
defined in paragraph (i) above;
(iii)       assist TPTC in public works administration and management
generally and to assist TPTC in its proposed reorganization; and
(iv)        assist the domestic civil works industry in management,
administration and engineering.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿12
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
Lot A
I.   From km 13.4 to km    17.3
II.  From Duvalierville to Saintard
III.  Construclion of a bridge over Ravine Seche, and its approaches
IV.  Construction of a bridge over Ravine Rousseau, and its approaches
Lot B
V.   From Pointe Montrouis to Carrefour Bois-de-Chaux
VI.  From a point about 4 km south of the Quinte River to Gonaive
Lot C
VII. From a point about 7 km south of Ennery to Cap Haftien


﻿13
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall be prequalified
as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
3.    With respect to bidding for civil works under Part A(1) of the Project:
(a)   the Project road shall be divided into three lots as set forth in the
Exhibit to Schedule 2. Bidders may bid for one, two or for all lots; contracts
shall be awarded on the basis of the lower of:
(i)         the lowest evaluated bid for all lots; or
(ii)        the lowest combination of lowest evaluated bids for the
individual lots; and
(b)   all invitations to  bid  for the said    contracts shall be issued
simultaneously.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Con tractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category I(a)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors,
as determined by the Borrower, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provice, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted


﻿14
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        Ibids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonabTy request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C.1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review   of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of


﻿15
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement,
on  the evaluation and ccmparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the *Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform    the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for Northern Road
Terrain
Design Parameters                     Flat         Undulating   Mountainous
Horizontal
Maximum cross slope      (%)             7              7            7
Minimum radius           (m)           240            120           40
Vertical
Maximum grade            (%)             4              7            8
Minimum radius           (m)         4,500           1,600         500
Design speed          (km/hr)           80             60           40
Width of travelled way:        5.50 - 7.00 m
Width of shoulders:           0.50 - 3.00 m


