CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 396 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Industrial Imports Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 15, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 396 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Industrial Imports Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 15, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1973, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN (hereinafter called the Borrower), acting by its President, and
INTERNATIONAL DEVFLOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower is carrying out a comprehensive economic and
financial program to improve the mobilization of resources, both domestic and
foreign, for economic development and their efficient use therefor, and to that
end has introduced and is implementing measures to reform the exchange system
and to liberalize imports;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to grant financial
assistance to support the successful implementation of such economic and financial
program by providing foreign exchange financing of essential imports required
therefor;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to make a development credit available to the Borrower for the aforesaid purpose
on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the sam- force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "I.T.C. Heading Number" means the Import Trade Control Heading
Number based on the Brussels Trade Nomenclature, as used in the New Import
Trade Control Schedule, dated July 19, 1971, of the Borrower.
(b)   "TCP" means the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, a government
owned, private limited company registered under the Companies Act of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit
Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherw.s; agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall, in the case of goods and services to be procured by TCP, be procured
on the basis of international competition in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1974 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of lo) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
A*


﻿5
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1983, and ending February 15, 2023 each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1993 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon       receipt of appropriate
applications issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to carry out the Project; and (ii) make available, or cause to be made available,
promptly as needed all foreign exchange which shall be required to carry out the
Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
beneficiary of such insurance to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to inspect any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively for the Project.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the use of the proceeds of the Credit, the economic and financial
program of the Borrower referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and its
implementation and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the use of the proceeds of the Credit and the economic and financial
program of the Borrower referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and its
implementation.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly infonn each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purpose of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿7
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional event is specified, namely that the Association shall, at
any time, have determined, after reviewing in consultation with the Borrower the
progress being made by the Borrower in the implementation of its exchange reform,
import liberalization and related financial measures to promote economic
development, that the purpose for which the Credit was granted is not likely to
be achieved.


﻿8
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The date August 15, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs
Division is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative, for and
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. L. Weiner
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below set forth the imported items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit:
Serial                      I. T. C  Heading                Name of
Number                         Number                        Article
I.                                13, 32                    Raw vegetable
(excl. heading 32.01A)           materials and
extracts for
use in dyeing
or tanning
II.                                    1 5                  Linseed oil, coco-
(15.07 CDF only)                 nut oil and palm
oil
Ill.                       25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 38           Salt, sulphur and
(excl. headings 28.051,          chemicals
28.12B, 28.46A, 28.56A)
IV.                               35, 39                    Glues, resins and
plastic materials
V.                                    40                    Rubber, synthetic
(excl. headings 40.11           rubber and factice
(except tires for heavy
machinery such as con-
struction and earth-
moving equipment), 40.13)
VI.                                   41                    Raw hides and skins
VII.                                  44                    Industrial wood
Vill.                             47, 48                    Paper and paper
(excl. headings 48.14,           board, pulp and
48.17 and 48.18)                 paper making
materials
IX.                        50, 51, 53, 56, 57 and           Silk, silk yarn,
59 (excl. heading 56.06)         wool, man-made
fibres, animal
hair, vegetable
textile materials,
wadding and felt


﻿11
Serial                      L T. C Heading                 Name of
Number                         Number                       Article
X.                                  69                     Fire brick, re-
(excl. headings 69.04           fractory mate-
69.05, 69.07 to 69.14)          rials and graphite
crucibles
Xl.                                 70                     Industrial glass
sheets and plates
XIl.                                73                     Iron and steel
(excl. headings 73.16
73.38)
XIll.                      74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79,         Copper, nickel,
80, 81, 83 (excl. head-         aluminum, lead,
ings 74.17 and 74.18,           magnesium and
83.04, 83.06, 83.10,            beryllium, zinc,
83.12 and 83.14)                tin and other
base metals
XIV.                                82                     Tools and irnple-
(excl. headings 82.08,          ments
82.13 and 82.14)
XV.                                 84                     Boilers, machinery
and mechanical ap-
pliances
XVI.                                85                     Electrical machin-
(excl. headings 85.14,          ery and equipment
85.15 and 85.16)
XVll.                               87                    Commercial and
(headings 87.02B and C,         industrial vehi-
87.04, 87.06 for vehicles       cles (parts for
falling within headings         assembly)
87.02B and C, 87.07 and
87.14 all other headings
excluded)
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, ot for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;


﻿12
(b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(c)   expenditures under invoices for groups of items costing the aggregate
of $5,000 equivalent or less; and
(d)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the provision by the Borrower, during the period
from July 1, 1973 to June 30, 1974 of foreign exchange required for the import
into the territories of the Borrower of industrial raw and semi-finished materials,
components, spare parts and miscellaneous items of manufacturing equipment, for
the purpose of supporting the successful implementation of the economic and
financial program referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   As regards goods and services to be procured by the TCP:
(a)   With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(i)         bids shall be obtained from not less than three of the major
suppliers from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland;
and
(ii)       the contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
execution of the contract and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract; (A) the details of the bids sought, (B) the names of the firms
invited to submit bids, (C) the summary of the bids submitted and, in the event
the lowest bid is not accepted, the analysis thereof and the reasons for choosing
the successful bidder, and (D) two conformed copies of such contract.
2.    Goods and services other than those referred to in paragraph I hereof shall
be procured on a competitive basis through normal commercial channels.


