Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20266-PNG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR
A MINING SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 5, 2000
Energy and Mining Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2, 2000)
Currency Unit = Kina
1 Kina = US$ 0.39
US$ 1.00 = 2.56 Kina
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CQ          Consultant Qualifications
DoM         Department of Mining
DoNPM       Department of National Planning and Monitoring
FMH         Financial Management Handbook
FMS         Financial Management System
GIS         Geological Information System
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IRC         Internal Revenue Commission
IS          International Shopping
LCS         Least-Cost Selection
MMAJ        Metal Mining Agency of Japan
NBF         Non-Bank Finance
NGOs        Non-Govermnental Organizations
NS          National Shopping
OEC         Office of Enviromnental and Conservation
PBDT        Procurement and Disbursement Target
PCIU        Project Co-ordination and Implementation Unit
PCD         Project Concept Document
PEAK        Porgera Environmental Advisory Komiti
PMR         Project Management Report
PNG         Papua New Guinea
POM         Procurement Operations Manual
QCBS        Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS         Quality-Based Selection
SBD         Standard Bidding Documents
SFB         Selection Under a Fixed Budget
TA          Technical Assistance
Vice President:    Jemal-ul-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Klaus Rohland
Sector Director:   Yoshihiko Sumi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     John Strongman



MINING SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING TA
CONTENTS
Page
A.   Project Development Objective                                   2
1. Project development objective                              2
2. Key performance indicators                                 2
B.    Strategic Context                                              3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported  3
by the project                                              3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                 4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  7
C.   Project Description Summary                                     7
1. Project components                                         7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project  9
3. Benefits and target population                             10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements              10
D.   Project Rationale                                               12
1. Project alternative considered and reasons for rejection   12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development
agencies                                                    12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design   13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership            14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                14
E.    Summary Project Analysis                                       14
1. Economic                                                   14
2. Financial                                                  15
3. Technical                                                  15
4. Institutional                                               16
5. Environmental                                              16
6. Social                                                     18
7. Safeguard Policy                                           19



CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page
F.    Sustainability and Risks                                       19
1. Sustainability                                             19
2. Critical risks                                             20
3. Possible controversial aspects                             20
G.   Main Loan Conditions                                            20
1. Effectiveness Condition                                    20
2. Other                                                      21
H.   Readiness for Implementation                                    22
I.    Compliance with Bank Policies                                  22
Annexes
Annex 1:    Project Design Surmmary                                  23
Annex 2:    Project Description                                      27
Annex 3:    Estimated Project Costs                                  33
Annex 4:    Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                      35
Annex 5:    Financial Summary                                        36
Annex 6:    Procurement Arrangements                                 37
Annex 7:    Disbursement, Project Financial Management, Financial Reporting
and Monitoring, and Implementation Planning Arrangements    45
Annex 8:    Environmental and Social Issues in the Mining Sector     52
Annex 9:    Project Processing Schedule                              59
Annex 10:   Documents in the Project File                            60
Annex 11:   Statement of Loans and Credits                           61
Annex 12:   Country at a Glance                                      63
MAP         IBRD 30894



Papua New Guinea
Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Date: May 5, 2000                                   Team Leader: John Strongman
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland             Sector Manager/Director: Yoshihiko Sumi
Project ID: P060330                                 Sector(s): NN - Mining & Other Extractive
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Institutional Strengthening
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data:
[X] Loan     [l Credit    [] Grant    [] Guarantee       [] Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 10.0
Proposed Terms: [ To Be Defined      [ Multicurrency     [X] Single Currency Fixed Spread
[] Standard Variable [] Fixed          [X] LIBOR Based
Grace period (years):      5
Years to maturity:         20
Commitment fee:            0.85% of the undisbursed amount for the first four years and 0.75%
thereafter
Service charge:            0.0%
Front end fee on Bank loan:  1.00% capitalized
Fi~~~ia~~ci~~,g .lu  -or             -~       a l    -      . ;n        Total B.
Government                                            1.53         0.00            1.53
IBRD                                                  3.38         6.62           10.00
IDA
Other (specify)
Total:                                                4.91         6.62           11.53
Borrower: Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Guarantor: none
Responsible agency: Department of Mining and Internal Revenue Commission
Address: Department of Mining (DoM)
Private Mail Bag, Port Moresby, N.C.D. Papua New Guinea
Contact Person: Mr. Graeme Hancock, Director of Mining Division
Tel: +675-322-7624        Fax: +675-321-3701          Email: graeme hancock(&,mineral.gov.pg
Address: Internal Revenue Commission (IRC)
P.O. Box 777 Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea
Contact Person: Mr. Iru V. Loi, Assistant Commissioner
Tel: +675-322-6870        Fax: +675-321-4002          Email: none
200D
Annual      1.0        3.0         3.0          2.0            1.0
Cumulative     1.0        4.0          7.0         9.0           10.0
Project implementation period: July 1, 2000 - June 30, 2005 (5 years)
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD F.m Rel Ma[, =20



2
A.   Project Development Objective
1.    Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objective of the proposed project is to strengthen institutional capacity within the
Department of Mining (DoM) and the Internal Revenue Commission (IRC) to administer and
regulate exploration and mining projects and to thereby contribute to socially and environmentally
sustainable private mineral investment in the Papua New Guinea (PNG) mining sector.
The project will provide technical assistance to:
* review and develop mineral policy and regulations;
* improve the mining development contract;
* strengthen the interface between public and private mining sectors, NGOs, and local
communities;
* review the organizational structure of DoM;
e conduct technical and safety field audits of exploration and mining projects;
*  improve environmental compliance and sustainable development benefits from mining;
*  address the issue of mine closure and its impact on local communities and the broader macro
economy;
* improve mine safety and investigate accidents;
* improve the availability of geological data for potential mineral investors;
* conduct tax audits of mining and petroleum companies; and
* establish effective inter-relationships between different government agencies regarding tax
collection, environment management, and so forth.
If successfully implemented, the project will assist the Government of PNG to:
- attract more high risk exploration and mining development capital expenditures from
international and domestic private investors;
* improve the benefits to the nation especially through increased employment and skills transfers
especially to rural areas;
* improve environmental and social performance of mining operations;
* achieve safer exploration and mining operations; and
* increase tax collections at a time when revenue collection is a critical country priority.
Mining sector experience could be especially helpful for the country in learning how to investigate,
audit, regulate, manage, and promote other natural resources related sectors. Therefore, valuable
lessons for other sectors, especially, logging, and fisheries, are also expected.
2.    Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
1)    Strengthen present mineral policy to maintain and increase private investment and
exports:
* increased annual investments in exploration and in new mining projects relative
to 1999 level;



3
* increased annual mineral exports relative to 1999 level;
* number of mineral spin-off businesses;
* enactment of legislation on offshore mining, mining safety, and revision of the
Mining Act 1992 and establishment of the Mineral Resources Authority;
* preparation of a revised standard mining contract; and
*  completion of eight seminars or workshops on environmental, engineering,
social and development issues associated with mining operations.
2)   Increase capacity of DoM/IRC to investigate, audit, regulate and manage the mining
industry:
* new social impact assessment guidelines for mining;
* new social monitoring guidelines for mining;
* number of annual DoM full technical and mine safety audits for each mining
operation (five operations at present);
* number of IRC full tax audits on mining and petroleum companies resulting in
increased related revenue;
*  environmental and social practice and compliance statistics;
* mine safety statistics;
* mineral-related taxes collected; and
* number of geological thematic maps issued.
The number of private investors involved in exploration and mining is expected to increase, and
annual investments for exploration are expected to increase several fold over the next five to ten
years. However, little improvement is expected in year 2000 regarding the performance indicators
relating to annual mineral exports and investments as a result of the current downturn in global
commodity markets and because of the lead time to develop new projects. As the project will
focus on strengthening the institutional capacity of DoM to administer the industry and of IRC to
audit mining companies, the govermment will be better able to (a) support the revitalization of the
private industry led mining sector; (b) ensure that mining contributes to sustainable development,
in particular for rural communities in PNG; and (c) increase tax revenues from mining projects.
The country, therefore, should be in a position to more fully benefit from mining as a result of the
project.
B.   Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: 19590-PNG                        Date  of latest CAS  discussion:
10/21/99
The country assistance strategy (CAS) for Papua New Guinea (PNG) aims to support a concerted
effort to reduce poverty and improve the quality of life of the people in PNG. The primary
objective for this CAS period is to assist PNG in improving the foundation for a capable state that
can be responsive to its people by addressing human and economic development challenges in a
transparent and accountable manner. The CAS objective will be pursued through the



4
implementation of an operational strategy that will support: a) improvements in the governance
framework for sustainable development, and b) enhanced rural development. The need to focus on
governance issues is overwhelming. The basic public sector operations intended to provide
services to rural areas are not working properly. Poor services delivery is not due to a lack of
government financial resources, but is a direct result of public sector mismanagement, poor
accountability mechanisms and unwillingness to make service delivery a priority in practice.
Improved governance is at the core of the service delivery challenge and it must be pursued
through a judicious set of policy and public sector reforms. In its effort to regain control of the
economy and reestablish growth, PNG will face challenges to maintain a transparent fiscal
discipline for the remainder for 1999 and 2000 budget, and to prevent further deterioration of the
fiscal situation that could spill over into the financial sector.
The proposed project supports the following CAS objectives:
(i)   Improvements in the Governance Framework for Sustainable Development
The government realizes that insufficient institutional capacity for the mining sector is the major
obstacle to attracting new private mineral investment and to ensuring that mining takes place in a
sustainable manner.  The proposed assistance will strengthen the capacity of the relevant
government departments to
-  attract, regulate and monitor new private investment (including improving mining licensing
arrangements, reducing a backlog of technical and safety audits, and making available more
geological information to potential investors);
-  improve the sustainability of mining activities in PNG (including supporting government to
take a more pro active role regarding improving environmental and social aspects of mining
and building greater interaction between key stakeholders).
(ii)   Enhanced Rural development
Mining typically takes place in rural areas and the proposed project will help improve the transfer
of benefits of mining development to local communities especially in rural areas. The project
should also help increase fiscal receipts from the minerals sector which will better improve the
government's budgetary position which should permit more support for rural development.
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background: Papua New Guinea has favorable geology which is located at the eastern extension
of mineral belt of the Indonesian archipelago. The country has tremendous potential for copper,
gold, and nickel. Following the discovery and development of the Bougainville copper project in
the mid-1960s, the countrybenefited from an active mineral exploration and mining industry. This
led to the discovery of the Ok Tedi copper and gold deposit and the Frieda copper deposit soon
after Bougainville in the late 1960s. In the 1970s, the target of mineral exploration shifted to gold.
This led to active exploration program resulting in discoveries in many areas including Porgera,
Misima, and Hidden Valley. The exploration success continued up until the late 1980s with the
discovery of Lihir, Wafi, Simberi, Tolukuma, Mt Sinivit, and Mt Kare.



5
Four world class mines - Ok Tedi copper and gold mine and the Porgera, Misima and Lihir gold
mines; plus a small gold mine at Tolukuma were subsequently developed in 1980s and 1990s and
are presently in production. Mining Development Contracts have been signed by the investors for
each project. These include social and environmental protection plans which are generally well
designed and implemented. There are also several mechanized alluvial gold mines and around
20,000 artisan level alluvial gold operations.
All of these achievements, however, had occurred at a time when the government institutional
capacity for mining was reasonably good. However, as the institutional capacity of the
government, both DoM and IRC today, has eroded over the past ten years, DoM and IRC lack a
strong presence at the mining sites. The Govermment, therefore, is presently facing difficulty in
attracting new mining investment into the country and ensuring the maximum contribution to the
national economy. There were three main constraints in the Government related to:
* a lack of strategy on new topics (e.g., sustainability, small scale mining, offshore mining, and
mine closure);
• insufficient capacity in public mining institutions (especially DoM) to take a proactive role
regarding emerging social and environmental issues and take the lead to negotiate new
agreements and audit, regulate, and administer the mining industry; and
* inability to update and provide geological data needed to attract new exploration.
Investments for mineral exploration in the country have steadily declined over the past decade.
from US$ 83.2 million in 1988 to US$ 12.0 million in 1999 (Table 1.)
Table 1: Private Sector Exploration Expenditures in PNG in million US$
_______________________  1988  1989   1990      1991      1992     1993
Exploration Expenditures    83.2      74.8      59.2     53.3      39.3      41.3
1994     1995      1996      1997     1998   1999 est.
Exploration Expenditures    37.8      34.6      31.7     32.6      14.3      12.0
Source: Department of Mining, Papua New Guinea
Gold and copper production from 1987-1999 are presented in Table 2. The decline in copper and
gold production in 1997 and 1998 largely reflects reduced production at the Ok Tedi Mine due to a
severe drought.



6
Table 2: Production of Copper and Gold 1987-1999.
Copper              Gold
('000 tonnes)       (tonnes)
1987              217.7               34.9
1988              218.6               34.6
1989              203.8               25.4
1990              170.2               32.3
1991              204.5               59.8
1992              193.4               69.2
1993              203.2               60.1
1994              209.3               58.7
1995              212.7               51.7
1996              186.7               51.6
1997              111.5               48.5
1998              101.8               58.4
1999              187.9               65.7
Source: Department of Mining, PNG
Government's Strategy: The strategy of the Government of Papua New Guinea is to develop the
mining sector by encouraging socially, environmentally, technically, and financially responsible
private sector exploration and development of PNG's mineral resources. More recently the
strategy has evolved to: (a) encourage private sector mining development that is environmentally
and socially sustainable; and (b) develop rural areas by overseeing and facilitating small-scale
mining to take place in an orderly way.
However, the major constraint to further sector growth is the lack of the institutional capacity of
DoM and IRC to administer and oversee the sector. In particular, DoM and IRC need to establish
a stronger presence at the mining sites, and DoM needs to:
* produce position papers on certain key topics (such as small scale mining and mine closure),
* negotiate new project development agreements for new private sector mining investment that
encourage sustainable development, and
* promote private sector mineral exploration and facilitate infrastructure development by
updating and publishing new geological and geochemical maps, reports, and database products.
Therefore, the government is seeking to remove the constraints to new private mineral investments
through (a) filling in key gaps in mining policy; (b) improving its ability to provide timely and
reliable regulatory oversight for the mining sector; (c) developing the capability to be more pro
active regarding social and environmental issues; and (d) updating and providing geological data to
attract potential investors.



7
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The main issues to be addressed by the proposed project are:
*  review and development of policy, strategy, and regulatory materials regarding small scale
mining, offshore mining, mine safety and health, mine closure and sustainable mining
development;
*  the capacity of DoM  to work closely with Office of Environment and strengthening
Conservation (OEC) to take a pro active role on social and environmental issues in the mining
sector working with provincial govermments, other government departinents, local
communities, land owner groups, NGOs and mining investors;
*  preparation of a standard mining development contract that encourage sustainable mining
development;
*  strengthening the institutional capacity of DoM  and IRC through training and operational
support to provide timely and reliable administrative services to the mining sector;
*  improving compliance of projects with environmental performance standards;
*  reducing backlog of DoM mine safety audits;
*  reducing backlog of IRC tax audits to increase fiscal revenues from the mining sector; and
*  development of geological thematic maps through the development of a Geological
Information System (GIS).
The Project will help government to update the mandates and develop institutional capacity for
DoM and IRC to:
*  update the mining policy and regulations;
*  to audit and administer the mining sector in the country;
*  interface with public and private sectors and communities to help them meet their respective
needs, based on a clear definition of objectives and scope of activities for new mine
development, small scale mining, offshore mining, mine safety and health, mine closure and
sustainable mining development.
C.   Project Description Summary
1.    Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed
cost breakdown):
The proposed project consists of the following components: a) policy and regulatory institutional
strengthening for the Department of Mining; b) development of capacity to monitor and execute
technical audits of mining and exploration projects; c) strengthening of mineral tenements
management; d) development of project coordination and environment assessment capacity for
sustainable development in mining project areas; e) institutional strengthening of the Geological
Survey and development of geological information system capabilities; and f) institutional
strengthening and capacity building for the Internal Revenue Commission. Project costs are
summarized in Table 3 overleaf.
Of the proposed Bank financing of US$ 10 million, about US$ 0.2 million will be required for
retroactive financing of project-related start-up costs including consultant services and goods.
These funds will be used to advance the commencement of the project.



8
Table 3 - Cost for Project omponents
Indicative          Bank-      % of
Sector       Costs    % of   financing   Bank-
Component                                1US$M)  Total   (US$M)  financing
1. Policy and Regulatory Institutional  Institutional    1.64     14.2      1.43      14.3
Strengthening: review and development  Development
of future structure of DoM, mineral
policy, strategy, and regulation for
promotion of exploration; small scale
mining; offshore mining; mine safety and
health; and mine closure.
2. Development of DoM Capacity to     Institutional      1.05      9.1      0.91       9.1
Monitor and Execute Technical Audits of   Development
Exploration and Mining Activities:
preparation of monitoring and auditing
strategies; implementation of new
institutional arrangements including
organization, staffing, and work
methodology; and training and operational
support.
3. Strengthening of DoM Mineral       Institutional      0.84      7.3      0.70       7.0
Tenements Management: development of   Development
a strategic action; execution of field
assessments; lease boundary definitions;
and development of a mineral tenements
management database.
4. Development of DoM Project         Institutional      1.10     9.5       0.96       9.6
Coordination and Environmental        Development
Assessment Capacity for Sustainable
Development in Mining Project Areas in
conjunction with Office of Environment
and Conservation (OEC): policy
formulation and strategic planning,
training and workshops and conferences
with all interested stakeholders and other
departments including OEC so that
government can take a more pro active
role regarding mining project
sustainability and integration of mining
projects into broader regional development
frameworks.
5. Institutional Strengthening of the  Institutional     4.31    37.4       3.74      37.4
Geological Survey and Development of  Development
Geological Information System (GIS)
Capabilities: remote sensing, geophysical
data interpretation, and development of a
national litho-stratigraphic database; and



9
compilation of geological information;
upgrading of information system and
facilities; and on the job training.
6. Institutional Strengthening and   Institutional      1.22    10.6      1.05      10.5
Capacity Building for IRC: upgrading  Development
equipment; implementation of new
institutional arrangements including
organization, staffing, and tax audit and
work methodology; and on the job training
and operational support.
7. Project Coordination, Monitoring, and                1.22    10.6      1.07      10.7
Evaluation: hiring, supervising staff;
managing procurement; contract
accounting and auditing; preparing
quarterly annual reports and annual
operation plans; and monitoring progress
and evaluate results.
Others (Auditors Fee)                                   0.05     0.4      0.04       0.4
Total Project Costs                 11.43    99.1       9.90      99.0
Front-end fee                   0.10     0.9      0.10       1.0
Total Financing Required                  11.53   100.0      10.00     100.0
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Table 4: Financing Plan
Estimated Costs                        Local           Foreign         Total
Base cost                             4.26             6.06          10.32
Contingencies                         0.51             0.70           1.21
Total Cost                            4.77             6.76          11.53
Financing Plan
Government of Papua New Guinea          1.53             0.00           1.53
IBRD                                    3.38             6.62          10.00
Total                                   4.91             6.62          11.53
2.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will involve four key institutional reforms. These are (a) to examine whether DoM
should become a statutory agency, which could give DoM greater independence and the ability to
retain some of the license fees it collects and thereby better match its operating budget to its
operational activities; this is presently being deliberated by Government; (b) to prepare a standard
mining development contract for new mining projects, which will reduce the time and effort
needed to prepare new contracts and will emphasize sustainable development including helping



10
maximize skills transfer, spin off businesses and other benefits to local communities; (c) to provide
DoM with a digital GIS System; and (d) to provide IRC long term auditing capacity to enhance the
country's fiscal revenue base.
3.    Benefits and target population:
The following benefits are expected from the proposed project:
(i)   induced by the project: (a) increased mining sector investments, exports, employment, and
tax payment; and (b) other economic benefits like creation of employment opportunity and spin-off
business, infrastructure development, etc. will be provided to local communities.
(ii)   as a direct result of the project: (a) establishment of a modem, consistent, and
homogeneous mining policy and regulatory framework that will contribute to sustainable
development especially regarding small scale mining, offshore mining, mine safety and health, and
mine closure; (b) development of a standard mining development contract which increases benefits
to local communities; (c) improvement in the efficiency in public mining institutions (DoM, IRC
and the Office of Environment and Conservation - OEC) to investigate, audit, regulate, and
manage exploration and mining projects; and (d) development of geological thematic maps with
GIS to improve information services to the potential mineral investors. Mining is a key sector for
further foreign investment in the country, and lessons learned how to investigate, audit, regulate,
manage, and promote mining sector in the country could be later put into use for other sectors like
logging and fisheries.
Target Population and Sectors:
*  Private foreign and domestic exploration and mining investors;
*  National mining authorities;
*  Small scale miners;
*  Local communities and land owners; and
*  Staff of DoM, IRC and OEC.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation period: The proposed project would be implemented over a period of five
years starting July 1, 2000. The project completion will be June 30, 2005 and the Loan closing
would be December 31, 2005. The Office of Environment and Conservation (OEC) would also be
involved in work regarding environmental compliance and sustainable development.
Implementation agency: Department of Mining (DoM) and Internal Revenue Commission (IRC)
would be responsible for the implementation of the proposed project. A Project Coordination and
Implementation Unit (PCIU) has been established within DoM for the implementation and
coordination of all project components.
Project administration: A DoM/IRC Steering Committee for the proposed loan has been
established to oversee the project. DoM has two operating divisions - a Mines Division and a
Geological Survey. The Secretary DoM is the Chairman of the Steering Committee and the



11
Commissioner General IRC, the Deputy Chairman. The membership includes the Directors of the
Mining Division, DoM, the Geological Survey Division, DoM, the Resource Monitoring Division,
IRC and the Director OEC as well as a representative of DoNPM. The PCIU has been established
within DoM. It will be staffed by a PCIUJ Director, Procurement Specialist and Project
Accountant. The positions have been advertised and applications received. The staff of the PCIU
will be selected on a competitive basis with qualifications and experience, terms and conditions
(including performance criteria and evaluation procedures) satisfactory to the Bank. The PCTU
Director will report to the Secretary DoM as Chairman of the DoM/IRC Steering Committee. The
PCIU will be responsible for (a) preparation and submission of procurement to the World Bank for
review and approval, (b) project monitoring, reporting, and evaluation, (c) the contractual
relationship with the Bank, and (d) financial record keeping, the Special Account and
disbursements. The PCIU will provide regular reports to the Steering Committee and to
Department of National Planning and Monitoring. The Secretary DoM and the Commissioner
General IRC will be delegated authority by the Minister for Treasury and Finance to sign contracts
for their respective components of the projects valued above 60,000 kina per contract. The PCIU
Director will be delegated authority to sign project contracts up to 60,000 kina per contract.
Procurement Planning: The procurement capability of the DoM was assessed during appraisal and
the guidance provided in the OCSPR memorandum of August 11, 1998, together with the findings
of the 1999 draft Country Procurement Assessment Report, has been utilized in the preparation of
the Procurement Capability Assessment Report of DoM (see Annex 6). A Procurement Plan has
been prepared and a Procurement Operations Manual is being prepared and will be issued by the
PCIU by December 31, 2000. The Steering Committee will oversee the evaluation and selection
of winning bidders. According to the nature of the procurement activity, the relevant division in
DoM or IRC will take the lead role in bid evaluation supported by the PCIU which will provide the
executive function. Consultants hired under the project will be supervised by the Director of the
Mining Division, DoM (Project Components 1-4), the Director of the Geological Survey Division,
DoM (Project Component 5), and the Director of the Resource Monitoring Division, IRC (Project
Component 6). By June 30 of each year starting in 2001, the PCIU will prepare and submit to the
Bank, an updated procurement and disbursement plan for the project components during the next
fiscal year, and agree with the Bank on these plans by September 30 of each year. Each year the
Govenunent will include counterpart funding for the project in the Budget for the next fiscal year,
in accordance with the agreed procurement and disbursement plans.
Project Financial Management Arrangements: The PCIU will also be responsible for project
financial management arrangements (accounting, financial management, and reporting) and for
managing the Special Account and making disbursements of World Bank loan proceeds. The
Project Accountant will be supported by a local accounting firm that will assist in the preparation
of monthly, quarterly and annual Project Management Reports. A Financial Management
Handbook will be issued prior to loan effectiveness. A computerized financial management
system will be developed to produce Project Management Reports as required pursuant to Bank's
Project Finance Management Manual. The traditional Statement of Expenditure Procedures will be
used for disbursement. Within one year from loan effectiveness a review will be conducted to
determine the feasibility of adopting PMR based disbursement. The project accounts will be
audited annually by a private accounting firm engaged under the project in accordance with
arrangements agreed with the Auditor General. A short list of acceptable firms has been prepared
by the PCIU and approved by the Auditor General. The Government will, by December 31, 2000,
appoint independent auditors with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for



12
the purpose of auditing the Project accounts. The Government will submit to the World Bank
annual financial statements and the independent auditor's report of the Project accounts by June 30
of each year
Monitoring and Evaluation: Not later than 45 days after each quarter, the PCIIJ will submit to the
Bank quarterly progress reports covering all project activities, including procurement, and a
financial summary report. Further details of monitoring arrangements are given in Annex 7. A
Mid-Term Review, 24 months after effectiveness, would provide detailed analysis of
implementation progress towards development objectives, including performance to date on
selected indicators of project benefits (see 3-i and 3-ii). Baseline data on these indicators will be
gathered prior to the Mid-Term review and used in the assessment. The Mid-Term review will
address the sustainability of DoM activities under the project.
D.   Project Rationale
1.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
When considering the most appropriate instrument to strengthen the public mining sector
institutions in Papua New Guinea, two main altematives were examined: a Technical Assistance
Credit or a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL).
At the PCD stage the project was proposed as a LIL on the basis that it provides the following
opportunities for learning and innovation: (a) work to develop and transfer an understanding and
capacity to innovate public administrative services to the mining sector - for which solutions and
examples of good practice are not readily available elsewhere; and (b) pilot activities to: (i) prepare
policy position papers on new topics (e.g., small scale mining; offshore mining; and mine closure);
(ii) develop and transfer DoM and IRC field investigation and audit capabilities; (iii) establish
geological thematic maps with GIS; and (iv) help DoM to become a statutory agency.
These were discussed at some length at the PCD review and it was concluded after careful
deliberation that they did not fully meet the requirements for a LIL (e.g. contain a hypothesis or
Pilot arrangements to be tested, the results of which could be mainstreamed into other sectors
easily). As a result, the TA approach was selected.
2.    Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned).
The only other related projects in PNG are two Bank-financed TAs for the Petroleum Sector.
Donor assistance to the mining sector is very modest presently consisting of one small-scale
mining expert financed by AusAID. The Bank has similar mining sector TAs in nine other
countries. The experience in the PNG Petroleum TA and the other mining TA projects has been
used in designing this TA.



13
Latest Supervision
fPSR) Ratings
Implementation Development
Bank-financed                               Project             Progress    Objective
(IP)        (DO)
Support regarding exploration data  Petroleum Exploration         S            S
management and exploration promotion  Technical Assistance Project
(Credit No. 1279-PNG)
Institutional strengthening to promote   Petroleum and Exploration  S          S
the petroleum sector               and Development Technical
Assistance Project (Loan
No. 3670-PNG)
Other development agencies
None
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
It is not expected that there will be any co-financing for the project. However, the European
Union are also expected to provide assistance to DoM regarding small scale mining. The project
design, therefore, does not include a small-scale mining component. Preliminary discussions
have also taken place with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the Metal
Mining Agency of Japan (MMAJ) regarding possible assistance to the DoM Geological Survey
Division. Any such possible assistance would be complimentary to the assistance requested
under this loan. The IRC is expecting assistance from the Australian Treasury who have been
informed of the proposed assistance for field audits of minerals companies from the World Bank
under this project. The IRC representatives informed the Project Appraisal Mission that the
assistance requested under the World Bank Mining TA Project will not conflict with or duplicate
the expected assistance from Australian Treasury.
3.    Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons have been learned from the ongoing activities being carried out under the PNG Petroleum
Technical Assistance projects where the importance of an adequate recurrent budget has been
highlighted. Lessons from projects from other countries where the Bank has financed mining
technical assistance projects (e.g., Mali, Burkina Faso, Guinea, Ghana, Tanzania, Madagascar,
Mauritania, Ecuador, and Argentina) and from a recent Bank paper on mining sector reform in
Latin America (A Mining Strategy for Latin America and the Caribbean, World Bank Technical
Paper No. 345, 1996).
The main lessons learned from similar projects and reflected in the project design include: (a)
sector-specific focus and improvements with clear delineation of authority and responsibility of
different ministries and agencies involved in the sector; (b) strong beneficiary participation in
project preparation, and organization and coordination at the field level; (c) supervision by
technical specialists; and (d) ownership and political commitment to project objectives and to
ensure strong local leadership and availability of counterpart funds.



14
Experience in other countries indicates that improving the enabling environment can increase the
ability of a country to attract and retain appropriate private investment. For instance, Ghana in late
1980s undertook significant reforms, supported by the Bank and other donors, to improve the
enabling environment for private sector investment in mining. The result has been a four fold
increase in gold production, a mining investment climate that is consistently ranked among the best
in the world by investors, and privatization of state owned mining enterprises. Argentina in the
1990s undertook similar reform and now attracts more exploration from international mining
companies than Canada.
4.    Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Commitment of the Borrower is demonstrated by DoM and IRC already having established the
Steering Committee, published the General Procurement Notice, advertised the positions for the
PCIU and prepared terms of reference for the consulting services proposed under the project.
Ownership: the Borrower took initiative in requesting the preparation of a stand-alone operation
for mining. Staff of both DoM and IRC are enthusiastic about the learning and professional
development opportunities that the project will provide.
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has a strong track record for mining sector reform TA projects. As of December 31,
1999 the portfolio consisted of nine mining sector reform TA projects, all of which were rated
satisfactory. The Bank can thus provide extensive and positive experience regarding mining sector
reform in other countries.
In addition, the Bank is in a unique position to integrate mining sector reform with broader macro
economic and fiscal management issues and ensure results are shared with other sectors. The
Bank has followed the development of the PNG mining sector over the past decade and knows
both DoM and IRC very well and is positioned to ensure that institutional strengthening takes
place in a fully consistent manner and is integrated with larger institutional reforms in PNG.
The Bank's presence will also help protect DoM and IRC from possible political interference.
E.    Summary Project Analysis
Economic (see Annex 4):
NPV=US$ [N/Al million; ERR = [N/Al % (see Annex 4)
The project provides technical assistance and, as such, does not lend itself easily to quantitative
investment analysis or to the calculation of Net Present Value (NPV) or Economic Costs of Return
(ECR). However, a number of economic indicators can be projected and compared with present
performances, such as amount of the annual investment for exploration by mining companies, and
annual value of exports and fiscal revenues coming from the sector.



15
The mining sector in the country is exporting in excess of K 2 billion (about US$ 800 million)
worth of mining products annually and generates K 200-300 million (about US$ 80-120 million) in
direct government revenue each year.  On the exploration front, there are currently 120
Exploration Licenses in force, and these licenses spent approximately US$ 12 million for
exploration in 1999. As mineral exploration is essential to the long term stability of the sector to
contribute to the national economy, an important indicator for the project is the amount of the
investment for exploration. If the project will be successfully implemented, the exploration
spending by private investors is expected to increase by 2005 from the current US$ 12 million per
year to the level of early 1990s (which was in the range US$50 to 60 million per year).
2.    Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ [N/A3 million; FRR = [N/Al % (see Annex 5)
There are no financial issues. The project provides technical assistance and as such does not lend
itself easily to quantifiable analysis.
Fiscal Impact:
The project should result in increased fiscal revenues from the sector. In the next 1 - 3 years these
would be from tax audits (any figure must be considered highly speculative but US$5 - 25 million
would seem a feasible range) and in the longer term from new investment.
3.    Technical:
The project will strengthen institutional capacity within the Department of Mines (DoM) and the
Internal Revenue Commission (IRC) and their regulatory environment to administer and regulate
exploration and mining projects and to achieve socially and environmentally acceptable private
mineral investment in the PNG's mining sector. In line with the main objectives, this project will:
*  review and develop mineral policy, regulations, and mining development contract including
interface between public and private mining sectors, NGOs, and local communities;
*  examine whether DoM should become a statutory authority;
*  conduct technical field audits of exploration and mining projects;
*  improve mine safety and environmental compliance and investigate accidents;
*  improve the availability of geological data for potential mineral investors;
*  collect taxes and conduct tax audits of mining and petroleum companies; and
* establish effective inter-relationships between different govermnent agencies for tax collection,
environment management, and so forth.



16
4.    Institutional:
4.1   Executing agencies:
DoM and IRC are well managed. However, the experience and implementation capacity of the
two agencies is limited. There is a major need for technical transfer at all levels, including project
management and implementation. The project includes a substantial provision to hire national
staff who will be in charge of the implementation of specific project sub-components. The project
cost estimate includes a budget for incremental operating costs (including travel, per diem, vehicle
operating costs, office materials, workshops, seminars and conferences) in order to finance these
expenses.
4.2   Project management:
The Project Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU) will be created and will manage
procurement and supervision of works and consulting services.
4.3   Procurement issues:
None
4.4   Financial management issues:
None
5.    Environmental:            Environmental Category: B
5.1   Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging
from this analysis.
(a) Issues.
As a technical assistance initiative, the project will not finance any direct exploration or
exploitation of mineral resources. However, the project is being implemented in a sector which is
known to be controversial with respect to environmental and social issues. The environmental
problems associated with mining in PNG relate to river and ocean based mining waste and tailings
disposal and pollution resulting from mineral processing.
A review of environment issues in the mining sector was prepared in 1992 by World Bank
specialists which raised concerns regarding the environmental impacts of the Ok Tedi operation.
The report also pointed out the need for improvements relating to environmental legislation as well
as regulatory and institutional capacity building needs. An updated review of these issues was
carried out as part of project preparation (February 2000). This consultant review noted progress
in the context of several projects but noted that, for the sector as a whole, there is still room for
improvement in the regulatory and institutional oversight arrangements. Such improvements
would be the focus of some of the training and consultative workshops to be supported by the
project



17
The project would help provide additional institutional strengthening which is expected to have a
positive impact on the environment. This includes project support for environmental workshops,
consultative conferences with major stakeholders and professional development training for both
DoM and OEC staff. These activities will improve skills and capabilities of DoM and OEC staff
to conduct field audits of mining projects, to investigate mine safety and environmental
compliance, and to work with mining companies to improve the environmental and social
sustainability of the operations. Annex 8 provides further details regarding environmental issues,
institutional and legal framework, role and capabilities of DoM and OEC and institutional
strengthening that will be provided under this project which is expected to have a positive impact
on the environment.
(b)   Environmental Category   [ A                [X I B             [ ] C
(c)   Justification Rationale for Summary Rating
The project was rated as a category B for environmental purposes. The project will not involve the
direct investment in mining activities but through its policy and regulatory strengthening it could
have indirect environmental impacts by encouraging increased mining activities in the future.
Also, projects in the sector, such as Ok Tedi, are known to have significant impacts on the
environment which will remain controversial. Since there is no direct on the ground investment
there is no resettlement involved in this project nor is there any requirement for an IPDP.
The project would likely have environmental benefits through the Environmental Assessment
Capacity Building component. This component will provide $1.1 million US to support
professional development training and consultative workshops on environmental issues and
through improvements in the DoM capacity to monitor and execute technical audits on mining
activities.
(d)   Status of category A assessment  N/A
(e)   Proposed actions:  The project will finance an environmental capacity building
component to address professional development training and institutional strengthening in the
DoM and the OEC.
(f)   Status of environmental studies.  No separate EA was prepared for this project. During
project appraisal a environmental consultant prepared a review of the progress made on
environmental issues since a 1992 Bank sector analysis. Issues raised in the consultants report
would be the subject of institutional capacity building and professional development training
initiatives to be supported under the project.
(g)   Local groups and NGOs consulted       WWF; Ikraft; representatives of landowner
associations; representatives of Chamber of Mines and petroleum
(h)   Resettlement N/A
(i)    Borrower permission to release EA -N/A



18
5.2   What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate? N/A
5.3   For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA: N/A
Date of receipt offinal draft:             N/A
5.4   How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?
Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted? As noted
above in Section 5(g), consultations were held during the environmental screening stage with
various NGOs, landowner and industry representatives.
5.5   What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project
on the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP? During
project implementation further consultation will take place with NGOs, landowners, and industry
representatives regarding mining sector environmental issues. Project performance indicators will
include mine safety, environmental and social compliance statistics as reported to DoM and OEC.
6.    Social
6.1 Sumnmarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specifj' the project's social
development outcomes..
Mining projects have significant social impacts and mining companies have been
progressively learning how to take into account the views of local communities and how to
improve their abilities to work with local communities to maximize the benefits from mining
activities. A review in 1992 by Bank specialists (Environmental Aspects of the Mining Sector,
World Bank draft report, September 1992) found that Social Impact Assessments have been
prepared for all of the projects and concluded that these represented serious professional efforts to
identify and mitigate social impacts associated with the projects. There has been no involuntary
relocation in mining projects, but the report also found that progress on the ground in dealing with
social issues was limited at that time and that monitoring has been ineffective.
Since then, mining companies have considerably increased their attention to implementation
and monitoring of social impacts of mining projects, although the parameters and methodologies
used to assess the impacts are still evolving. A social review of the mining sector conducted
during project preparation found that while there remains considerable room for further
improvement, overall a good amount of progress has been made regarding social issues and today
the landowners are very well organized and well able to deal with project developers and
operators. The project will help to improve social aspects of mining projects in PNG, especially
regarding social impacts by providing workshops with all the major stakeholders and by providing
training for both DoM and OEC staff on social issues. Further details are provided in Annex 8.



19
6.2   Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in tle project
Representatives from NGOs and local communities which are affected by mining projects were
consulted in preparing the project and have agreed to provide inputs to DoM regarding the design
of participatory workshops and conferences to be undertaken as part of the project.
7.     Safeguard Policies (check applicable items):
This is a TA project and no investment or infrastructure development is involved hence all of the
following are not applicable.
Applicability of Safe2uard Policies
Policy                                                      Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, G-P 4.01)     Yes - see Section 5 above
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04 GP 4.04)               No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                               No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                             No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                              No
Involuntary Resettlement tOD 4.38)                        No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                         No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)    No
F.    Sustainability and Risks
1.    Sustainability:
The successful establishment of the strategy and development of the institutional capacity should
result in increased mineral investments for exploration and better tax collection. Increased fiscal
revenues to the govermment will benefit all public sector institutions including DoM and IRC.
While international metals prices and exploration and investment are presently low, this is a
highly cyclical industry and recovery can be expected in the next 3-4 years. The project thus will
help position the country to take full advantage when that upturn occurs. The project will help
strengthen the capabilities of DoM and IRC and better enable them to resist political interference.
The study of whether or not DoM should become a statutory authority will help address the need
to improve the recurrent budget for DoM to carry out its activities and examine the benefits of
DoM being able to retain part of the fees they collect.



20
2.    Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Weak international commodity markets    M       1. By positioning well now, government
can benefit from next market upturn
2. Political interference in the mining sector  M  2. Bank involvement in the sector
3 Lack of commitment to reform and to      N       3. Support and oversight of bank and
being responsive to needs of private               other donors as part of overall country
investors                                          economic dialogue
4 Inadequate recurrent budgets for the two  M      4. Government commitments under the
mineral sector institutions                        project
5. Poor access to geological data needed to  N     5. Good access is ensured by provisions
build-up the GIS data base                         of exploration licenses
From Components to Outputs
1. Continued project ownership.            N       1. DoM and IRC have shown strong
ownership in project design
2. Satisfactory performance by contracted  M       2. Good supervision by DoM and IRC
consultants.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3.    Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project itself should not involve any controversial aspects. However, the Government is
facing a highly controversial situation regarding the future of the Ok Tedi Mine and may use
technical assistance under the operation to help address the situation.
G.   Main Loan Conditions
1.    Effectiveness Condition
* Appointment of key PCIU staff according to agreed procedures
* Issuance of a Project Financial Management Handbook (FMH) acceptable to the Bank
2.    Other [classify according to covenant types zused in the Legal Agreements.]
Project Execution
* The Secretary DoM and the Commissioner General IRC will be delegated authority by the
Minister for Treasury and Finance to sign contracts for their respective components of the
projects valued above 60,000 kina per contract;
* The PCIU Director will be delegated authority to sign project related contracts up to 60,000
kina per contract;



21
* Prior to September 30, 2000, DoM will undertake a study of its future operational status,
discuss the results with the Bank and present the findings to Government for implementation;
and
*  Each year the Government will include counterpart funding for the project in the Budget for
the next fiscal year, in accordance with the agreed procurement and disbursement plans; and
Financial Reporting, Monitoring, and Auditing
* Maintain and provide the Bank with quarterly progress reports, with unaudited project accounts
to reflect project expenditures and original project cost estimates for the implementation period
using the Bank's project management reporting (PMR) system;
* The Government will, by December 31, 2000, appoint independent auditors with qualifications
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose of auditing the Project accounts;
* Within six months from effectiveness issuance of a Procurement Operations Manual (POM)
acceptable to the Bank
* Within one year from effectiveness a review will be conducted to determine the feasibility of
adopting PMR based disbursement.
* The Government will submit annual financial statements and the independent auditor's report
of the Project accounts by June 30 of each year;
* By June 30 of each year starting in 2001, the PCIU will prepare and submit to the Bank, an
updated procurement and disbursement plan for the project components during the next fiscal
year, and agree with the Bank on these plans by September 30 of each year; and
- By March 31, 2003 the Government and the Bank will undertake a mid-term review of the
Project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] l.(a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
[X ]  (b) Not applicable.
[X ] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are substantially complete and
ready for the start of project implementation.
[X ] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



22
Readiness
(a)   The project implementation, procurement and disbursement arrangements (Annex 6) have
been planned and submitted to the Bank for clearance.
(b)   The DoM has defined steps for project commencement (see Annex 6 Project Launch) and
is capable of undertaking these steps in a timely manner.
Business Policies (check applicable items):
X       Financing of recurrent (OMS 10.02)
Cost sharing above country 3-yr average (OP/BP/GP 6.30)
Retroactive financing above normal limit (OP/GP/BP 12.10)
X       Financial management (OPIBP 10.02)
Involvement of NGO's (GP 14.70)
Other (provide necessary details)
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The
project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
John Strongman                                                 Klaus Rohiad
Team Leader                     Sector Manager/Director        Country Manager/Director



23
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
Hierarchy of Objectives   Key Performance         Monitoring &        Critical Assumptions
Indicators           Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country      (from Goal to Bank
reports:             mission)
1. Sustained and sustainable  - Increase export of  - Economic reports  strong international
minerals sector growth led   mineral commodities.    - Bank of PNG Reports  commodity markets
by private and foreign
investment
2. Improved governance and  - no backlog of mine                      no political interference
greater efficiency of the  safety investigation and                   in mineral sector
public service           regular tax audits.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact      Project reports       (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Improve government
capacity to regulate and
administer the mining sector
so that:
1. Investment environment  - increased annual   - Economic report.    - DoM committed to
become more attractive to   exploration and mineral   Sector report.  implementing reform
high risk exploration and    investment                                and being responsive to
mining investment                                                     investors.
2. Exploration and mining   - more spin off     - Mining company
projects contribute to    businesses started    reports
sustainable development
benefits to local         - improved
communities increase in   environmental and social
terms of more outsourcing of compliance
mining activities to local
communities resulting in and - sustainability
improved                 emphasized in new
technology/knowledge      mining development
transfers to local        contract and addressed
communities              at workshops and
conferences organized
3. Exploration and mining    with key stakeholders    - DoM reports    - Adequate recurrent
projects become safer     and other government                         government budget for
departments.                                 DoM and IRC.
- preparation of regional



24
development plans for
one or two mining
regions with full
participation of
provincial governments
and all stakeholders.
- improved safety
statistics
4. Benefits to the nation  - Increase tax revenues   - IRC reports     - Satisfactory mining
increase in terms of higher   from mining projects.                   development agreement.
tax collections
Output from each          Output Indicators:    Project reports:      (from Outputs to
component:                                                             Objective)
1. a, Preparing and approval  - DoM issues position    - Project monitoring  - Continuing project
of policy, strategy, and  papers based on       report, midterm        ownership by DOM and
regulatory documents on   consultants reports   evaluation, and ICR.    IRC.
small scale mining; offshore  regarding mineral
mining; mine safety and   policy, strategy, and
health; and mine closure    regulations for small
scale mining; offshore
mining; mine safety and
health; and mine closure.
1. b, Preparation of standard  - Government introduces                - Satisfactory
mining development        new mining                                   supervision of
contract.                 development contract in                     consultants by DOM and
negotiation for next                        IRC.
projects which includes
more pro active
government role
regarding social issues,
social service delivery,
regional development
impacts, monitoring of
social and environmental
impacts, and strategy for
eventual mine closure.
2. Improve DOM capacity   - DOM undertakes                             - Satisfactory
for investigations and   technical audits and                         performance by
technical audits to provide   documents mineral                        contracted consultants.
timely and reliable      reserve and production
administrative services to the estimates for 10
mining sector.            exploration and mining
projects.



25
- DOM reduces backlog
of mine safety
inspections to 3 months.
3. Improve IRC capacity for - IRC undertakes tax
investigations and tax audits  audits of 5 mining and
to increase fiscal revenues   petroleum companies.
from mining.
4. Improved geological data  - 7 sheets of geological
base.                    thematic maps prepared
and issued.
Project Components / Sub- Inputs: (budget for    Project reports:     (from Components to
components:              each component)                              Outputs)
1, Policy and Regulatory  1, Policy and Regulatory Consultant reports on
Institutional Strengthening:  Strengthening: US$ 1.64 mineral policy and
review and development of  million              regulation
mineral policy, strategy, and
regulation for promotion of
exploration; small scale
mining; offshore mining;
mine safety and health; and
mine closure.
2, Development of        2, Institutional       Consultant reports on
Departmental Capacity to    Strengthening and   DOM progress in
Monitor and Execute       Capacity Building for   implementing
Technical Audits of      monitoring and auditing: institutional
Exploration and Mining   US$ 1.05 million      improvements
Activities: preparation of
monitoring and auditing
strategies; implementation of
new institutional
arrangements including
organization, staffing, and
work methodology; and
training and operational
support.
3, Strengthening of DoM  3, Mineral Tenements   Consultant reports on
Mineral Tenements        Management System:    mineral tenements
Management: development  US$ 0.84 million
of a strategic action;
execution of field
assessments; lease boundary
definitions; and development
of a mineral tenements
management database.
4, Development of Project   4, Institutional    Consultant reports on
Coordination and          Strengthening and     sustainable development
Environmental Assessment  Capacity Building for   and training materials
Capacity for Sustainable    sustainable



26
Development in Mining     development: US$ 1.10
Project Areas: policy     million
formulation and strategic
planning, training and
workshop.
5, Institutional Strengthening 5, Institutional  Consultant reports on
of the Geological Survey and Strengthening of the  mineral resources and
Development of Geological  Geological Survey: US$  GIS.
Information System (GIS)   4.31 million.
Capabilities: remote sensing,
geophysical data
interpretation, and
development of a national
litho-stratigraphic database;
and compilation of
geological information;
upgrading of information
system and facilities; and on
the job training.
6, Institutional Strengthening 6. Institutional  Consultant reports on
and Capacity Building for    Strengthening and  IRC progress in
IRC: upgrading equipment;  Capacity Building:   implementing
implementation of new     US$1.22 million       institutional
institutional arrangements                      improvements
including organization,
staffing, and tax audit and
work procedures and
methodology; and on the job
training and operational
support.
7, Project Coordination,  7. Project Coordination,  Quarterly and annual
Monitoring, and Evaluation:  Monitoring, and    reports, contracts and
hiring supervise staff;   Evaluation: US$ 1.22    procurement records,
managing procurement;     million                monitoring reports,
contract accounting and                         technical and training
auditing; preparing quarterly                   performance evaluation
annual reports and annual                       reports, manuals, and
operation plans; and                             financial reports and
monitoring progress and                          audits.
evaluate results.



27
Annex 2: Project Description
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
The project consists of seven main components:
Project Component 1 - US$1.64 million (including contingencies)
Policy and Regulatory Institutional Strengthening
A number of legal issues and new policy topics (i.e., promotion of exploration, small scale mining,
offshore mining, mine safety and health, and mine closure) have arisen since independence and
have remained unresolved. A priority objective of the Government is to review the existing
mining policy and legislation and to develop new strategies and regulatory documents on these
new topics. This Project component will support the Department of Mining to:
-  prepare a study of the future organization of DoM;
-  propose appropriate amendments of the existing Mining Act 1992 to reduce ambiguity and
improve its functioning;
•  review the draft Standard Mining Development Contract, with a view to incorporating all of
the new policy initiatives listed above and to see that mine closure strategies are outlined and
regional development aspects considered;
*  draft new mining occupational health and safety legislation;
•  prepare an offshore mining bill to accommodate the requirements of offshore mineral leasing
arrangements;
*  prepare a mine closure and rehabilitation policy paper to ensure an orderly and acceptable mine
closure and draft new legislation as required;
• provide training to national officers in project negotiating skills; and
*  prepare investment promotion materials including Mineral Policy Handbook, Strategic
Geological Potential of Papua New Guinea and develop a web site for ready access by
potential investors. Materials prepared will be prepared in such a manner to facilitate
distribution to the mineral industry and potential explorers clarifying all of the major issues
impacting on the development of mineral resources in Papua New Guinea.
Provisions of this Component will include the financing of: international and local consultants;
incremental operating costs related to travel and training; purchase of basic core office equipment,
legal and technical literature, printing costs and vehicles.
Project Component 2 - US$1.05 million (including contingencies)
Development of Departmental Capacity to Monitor and Execute Technical Audits of
Exploration and Mining Activities
The technical capacity of the Department of Mining to effectively monitor and audit the activities
of exploration and mining companies requires strengthening following the departure of
experienced expatriate staff in the early to mid 1990's. The objective of this project component is
to strengthen the capacity of the Department of Mining to audit existing mining and exploration



28
projects to determine appropriate compliance with legal, safety, contractual, and policy
obligations. These include technical and expenditure reporting for exploration tenements, reserves
and resource reporting and the reporting of production, exports, commodity prices and royalties on
production tenements.  Mine safety audits are also required to deal with a backlog of
investigations. This Project component will be implemented through a participatory approach and
on-the-job training and include the establishment of efficient procedures for monitoring and
auditing of company reports and activities, and the participation of national staff in technical,
commercial and legal training courses. This Project component will support Department of
Mining to: 1) prepare appropriate monitoring and reporting strategies for exploration and mining
companies; 2) prepare audit strategies and train staff in the identification of key issues for audit
inspection; 3) execute prospect and project audits and reviews; 4) carry out mine safety audits; 5)
prepare assessments of degree of compliance; 6) develop decision point analysis and strategies for
dealing with issues of non-compliance; and 7) prepare cases for punitive action under the Mining
Act, or prosecution as required. Provisions of this component will include the financing of:
international and local consultants; incremental operating costs related to travel and training;
purchase of basic core office equipment, legal and technical literature, and vehicles.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.84 million (including contingencies)
Strengthening of Departmental Mineral Tenements Management
The Mining Act 1992 requires that old leases, which had been issued under the previous repealed
Act, be converted to new leases. There exists, however, a large backlog in tenement conversions
due to the limited capacity of the Department to survey the old leases for the transfer. This has
significantly affected new exploration and mine development investments in some areas, because
new leases cannot be issued until the location of existing leases can be defined by survey. This
component entails: 1) development of a strategic action plan for lease conversions; 2) execution
of field assessments to determine whether existing leases are active and effectively utilizing the
states mineral resources; 3) cadastral boundary survey definition will be carried out to meet the
requirements of lease transfer for those leases which are to remain in force; 4) lease boundary
definitions will be input into the departmental database for plotting and verification.
The Department of Mining presently maintains these lease documentation in paper registers.
Some information including lease boundary descriptions are entered into an antiquated computer
database for plotting. Updating into an integrated lease management system linked to the
Departments central GIS is required in order to facilitate lease management into the future. This
component also involves: 1) development of a mineral tenements management database with
sufficient security features to ensure data integrity which incorporates all aspects of tenement
administration required under the Mining Act 1992; and 2) integration of the tenements database
into the departmental GIS system.
Mining Wardens are responsible for the collection of public input into the licensing procedure and
for the determination of the quantum of payments to be made in compensation claims against
exploration and mining companies. The Wardens are required to have a working knowledge of
mining and land law as well as a knowledge of appropriate values for damages in addition to skills
such as investigation of claims and judicial inquiries. The Wardens require training and exposure
to established systems to assist in strengthening their ability to deliver the required services in
Papua New Guinea.



29
Provisions of this component will include the financing of a land surveying company to carry out
lease boundary surveys; incremental operating costs related to travel and training; purchase of
specialized survey software and computer and plotting equipment.
Project Component 4 - US$1.10 million (including contingencies)
Development of Project Coordination and Environmental Assessment Capacity for
Sustainable Development in Mining Project Areas
Mining projects cause significant social, economic, and environmental change in often remote
rural areas where land ownership is under customary title. Managing this change and ensuring that
project benefits are channeled into ultimately sustainable development activities which can sustain
local communities beyond mine life is the function of the Project Coordination Branch of the
Department of Mining. The provision of advice on the environmental effects of mining and their
impacts on these same social issues is the function of the environmental resource scientists in the
Project Assessment branch of the Department. Managing the process of social change and
maintaining an harmonious operating environment for the mine developer are critical to the long
term success and continuity of all mining projects. This requires that coordinators have a wide
range of skills including basic social and economic knowledge of exploration and mining projects,
environmental impacts, negotiation and mediation, land management, communication, business
management, accounting and financial skills, and a knowledge of development economics.
Training is required in all of these areas for project coordinators and liaison officers.
Environmental resource scientific staff also require assistance and training opportunities in order
for the environmental effects of mining on communities to be adequately appreciated and
accommodated in the development process. This project will develop project coordination and
environmental assessment capacity for sustainable development in mining project areas through:
(i) the carrying out of a training needs analysis; (ii) training and skills development of project
coordinators, resource scientists and liaison officers in basic social and economic knowledge of
exploration and mining projects, environmental impacts, negotiation and mediation, land
management, communication, business management, accounting and financial skills, and a
knowledge of development economics; (iii) meetings on the environmental, engineering, social
and development issues associated with mining operations. Provisions of this component will
include the financing of international and local consultants and trainers, environmental workshops
with an international component, and incremental operating costs related to travel and training.
The component will also support retreat, seminars, workshops and conferences (including a
follow-up to the 1999 Madang Conference on Mining and the Community). Department of
Mining will take the lead in organizing such events to involve all interested stakeholders,
provincial governments and other government departments. In particular, this will support DoM in
addressing how mining development can better contribute to poverty alleviation and rural
development in PNG. Studies will also be undertaken to see the extent to which compensation
benefits reach the most needy members of the community and all segments of the community are
adequately represented in consultation and negotiations with project developers and operators.
Regional plans for one or two mining areas will be developed in a fully participatory manner
involving local communities and provincial government officials. These activities should lead to
the strengthening of government institutional capacity in this regard so that mining development is
better integrated into overall rural and regional development.



30
Project Component 5 - US$4.31 million (including contingencies)
Institutional Strengthening of the Geological Survey and Development of Geological
Information System (GIS) Capabilities
Institutional development of the PNG Geological Survey is required to provide high quality
geological data products to other government institutions and Industry. This component is 1) to
strengthen the capacity of the PNG Geological Survey to contribute to and benefit from the newly
available data sources and digital mapping capability; and 2) to develop a Geological Information
System (GIS).
5.1 Institutional Strengthening of the Geological Survey
(a) Remote Sensing
Currently the Geological Survey has no remote sensing data to assist in the geological
interpretation of Papua New Guinea. This sub-component requires the acquisition of remote
sensing data and the introduction of software and training to enable the integration of remote
sensing techniques into the mapping and interpretation of the geology of PNG. Principal data sets
required include Radarsat SAR, Landsat, Spot, and if available, Seasat. Training in remote sensing
will include the use of imaging software and the integration of digital remote sensing images into
the GIS and thematic mapping and geological interpretation. The main objective of this sub-
component is: 1) to acquire digital and analogue remote sensing data and images; 2) to assist
Department of Mining to establish an appropriate software suite to manipulate a remote sensing
database to allow a structural reinterpretation of the geology of Papua New Guinea; 3) to assist
Department of Mining in geohazard mapping for infrastructure and land use planning. Provision
of this sub-component will include the acquisition of available remote sensing data for PNG,
appropriate software and necessary computer hardware, and the provision of a consultant to train
national staff in remote sensing data management techniques and map generation.
(b) Geophysical data interpretation
The PNG Geological Survey has copies of meta data provided by previous geophysical surveys
carried out by both the government and mineral and petroleum exploration companies. This data
is currently somewhat disjointed and has not been integrated to assist the routine geological
interpretation of PNG. The objective of this sub-component is to: 1) assist Department of Mining
to develop an integrated geophysical data set using available meta data; and 2) to develop the
geophysical interpretation skills of national staff.
(c) National Lithostratigraphic Lexicon and Map Rectification
Rationalization of the geological units present in Papua New Guinea and the completion of a
program to digitise the existing 1:250,000 and 1:100,000 series geological maps of Papua New
Guinea are essential. To date the Australian Geological Survey Organization (AGSO) has
digitized the PNG lithological polygons from the 1:250,000 map series. Structural and point data
remain to be digitized. This process has highlighted a considerable number of map boundary
mismatches showing different geological units which need to be rationalized prior to the
completion of a nationwide digital geology of PNG. This project sub-component will necessarily



31
involve: 1) the development of a national lithostratigraphic lexicon and database; 2) completion
of digitization of the 1:250,000 geological map series; 3) the production of a national standard for
geological map legends; 4) resolution of the existing edge-matching problems in the existing
geological map series; and 5) primarily training in the production of geological thematic maps.
This will require field mapping and checking of map boundary areas on the ground to determnine
the most appropriate geological units to be used.
5.2 Development of a Geological Information System
An essential tool for public institutions in mining as well as in other land use, enviromnental
management activities and, more generally, in society development is open and efficient access to
accurate and reliable geological information. Today, this can be best achieved through modem
information technology, including electronic comnmunication and development of an integrated set
of GIS-related geo-data banks. Department of Mining holds a large number of maps, technical
reports and geological, geochemical and geophysical data generated by the institution or by mining
companies. However, most of the information is in a hard copy format and is not easily available
to potential users. This has negatively affected the information services the Department should
provide to its clients, including mining investors. In order to achieve this development goal, this
component will make use of state of the art technology to gather, store and provide information to
a wide range of clients in a timely fashion. It will help Department of Mining to (i) develop an
information policy and its implementation strategy; (ii) set-up the institutional information
management framework, including the identification of human and financial resources to sustain
its development and maintenance; (iii) design and build-up an integrated geological and mining
information system, including the purchase of software and hardware, installation of a LAN,
development of a Web site and connection to internet; (iv) training of Department of Mining users
at different levels in information, database and network management as well as in processing and
output of thematic maps and customized products; (v) input of relevant existing data according to
priorities defined under (i). This component will provide for the financing of (a) international and
local consultants; (b) works and equipment including, software and hardware specifically
dedicated to the system functions, communications devices and accessories; software requirements
would include programs in administrative system and database management, processing,
communications and editing; subscription to international and national electronic databases and
internet; some rehabilitation work, in particular network cabling and connections, upgrading of
electrical supply and computer security in DM offices; and (c) training.
Project Component 6 - US$1.22 million (including contingencies)
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building for IRC
The Internal Revenue Commission (IRC), through the Resources Monitoring Division, carries out
audits of mining and petroleum companies to collect revenues. The current capacity within IRC,
however, restricts it to undertaking assessments of financial records of the companies as provided.
No field audits are carried out. Significant legislative work has been done to cope with the
conditions which apply to the companies in the country. In order to provide IRC with long term
auditing capacity to enhance the country's revenue base, this Project component supports IRC to:
(i) determine matters to be scrutinized and its effect to the revenue; (ii) carry out pilot audits to
their results; (iii) carry out full audits as directed by IRC; and (iv) prepare draft guidelines for
future audits; (v) carry out other duties of IRC as relevant to the mining and petroleum sector.



32
This Project component will be implemented through a participatory approach and on-the-job
training and include the financing of: consultants; incremental operating costs related to travels and
training; and purchase of basic core office equipment, vehicles, and technical literature.
Project Component 7 - US$1.22 million (including contingencies)
Project Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU)
The Project Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU) will monitor, supervise, and provide
technical and administrative management control of the Project. The PCIU will manage
procurement, including all contracting works and purchases, and the hiring of consultants, the
contractual relationship with the Bank and the Project's overall administration and financial
management, which includes accounting, reporting, managing the Project's Credit Account and its
other funding. PCIU will be responsible for preparing and submitting to the Bank quarterly reports
dealing with Project implementation, and for contracting under Terms of Reference acceptable to
the Bank, the yearly audits of the Project including the timely submission of such audit reports to
the Bank. The Project will finance the contracting within the PCIU of a PCIU Director, PCITJ
Accountant, and PCIJ Procurement officer, and administrative support staff Funding is provided
for the unit's operating costs, as well as some operational equipment.



33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
Local     Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Component             US $million US $million  US $million
Policy and Regulatory Institutional Strengthening      0.21        1.25       1.46
Development of Departmental Capacity to Monitor and    0.64        0.29       0.93
Execute Technical Audits of Exploration and Mining
Activities
Strengthening of DoM Mineral Tenements Management      0.40        0.35       0.75
Development of Project Coordination and Environmental  0.28        0.71       0.99
Assessment Capacity for Sustainable Development in Mining
Project Areas
Institutional Strengthening of the Geological Survey and  1.23     2.66       3.89
Development of Geological Information System (GIS)
Capabilities
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building for IRC  0.76    0.33       1.09
Project Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU)    0.76        0.33       1.09
Auditors Fee                                           0.04        0.00       0.04
Total Baseline Cost                                    4.32        5.92      10.24
Physical Contingencies                                0.29        0.40       0.69
Price Contingencies                                   0.21        0.29       0.50
Total Project Costs           4.82         6.61      11.43
Front-end fee                 0.10       0.10
Total Financing Required            4.82         6.71      11.53



34
Local      Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Category              US $million US $million US $million
Services                                                 3.21          3.90       7.11
Training                                                 0.21          0.60       0.81
Goods                                                    0.12          1.16        1.28
Incremental Operational Costs                            0.72          0.24       0.96
PCIU Operating Costs                                     0.06          0.02       0.08
Physical Contingencies                                  0.29          0.40       0.69
Price Contingencies                                     0.21          0.29       0.50
Total Project Costs    4.82         6.61       11.43
Front-end fee                 0.10        0.10
Total Financing Required     4.82         6.71       11.53



35
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
Cost Effectiveness - Sector Financial Contribution:
Mineral production in Papua New Guinea has consisted essentially of two commodities, copper
and gold. In the mid-1960s, following the discovery and development of the Bougainville copper
project, the country benefited from an active mineral exploration and mining industry. This led to
the discovery of the Ok Tedi copper and gold deposit and the Frieda copper deposit soon after
Bougainville in the late 1960s. In the 1970s, the target of mineral exploration shifted to gold. This
led to active exploration program resulting in discoveries in many areas including Porgera,
Misima, and Hidden Valley. The exploration success continued up until the late 1980s with the
discovery of Lihir, Wafi, Simberi, Tolukuma, Mt Sinivit, and Mt Kare. Four world class mines -
the large Ok Tedi copper and gold mine and the Porgera, Misima and Lihir gold mines; plus a
small gold mine at Tolukuma were subsequently developed in 1980s and are in production. The
production of these two metals had constantly increased in 1970s to 80s because of the
development of Ok Tedi, Porgera, and Misima. After the closure of the Bougainville copper
mine, however, the copper production in the country began to decrease. There was a major
increase in gold production in the early 1990s with the opening of the Porgera mine. The PNG
mining sector has exported about US$ 1 billion worth of copper and gold products annually and
US$100 million - 200 million in tax transfers and direct community benefits each year.
Project Benefits:
As mineral exploration is essential to the long term stability of the sector to contribute to the
national economy, one of the most important indicators of the project is the amount of the
investment for exploration. If the project will be successfully implemented, the exploration
spending by private investors is expected to increase by 2005 from the current US$ 12 million to
the level of the early 1990s (which was approximately US$ 50 to 60 million per year).
Through increasing its ability to provide timely and reliable regulatory oversight for the mining
sector, the mining sector in the country can also improve environmental performance and achieve
safer exploration and mining operations and increase tax collections at a time when revenue
collection is a critical country priority.
The Project will cost the Government about US$11.5 million. The additional tax collections from
the IIRC component are likely to be anywhere from double or more that amount. The additional
benefits to Government and communities of additional mining exploration and mine development
could range from US$ 1-2 million from a modest exploration venture to tens of millions of dollars
benefiting local communities and hundred of millions of dollars benefiting the national economy
from just one additional world class mining development.



36
Annex 5: Financial Summary
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
IMPLEMENTATION PE RIOD (S TART 07/01/00)
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             0.7      3.2      3.2     2.0      0.8      0.0     0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3     0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs            1.0      3.5      3.5      2.3      1.1     0.0     0.0
Front-end fee    0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Financing                1.1      3.5      3.5      2.3      1.1     0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    1.0      3.0      3.0      2.0      1.0    0.0       0.0
Government                  0.1      0.5      0.5      0.3      0.1    0.0       0.0
Central                 0.1      0.5       0.5     0.3      0.1    0.0       0.0
Provincial              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
Co-financiers               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
Others                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing  I   1.1      3.5      3.5     2.3       1.1    0.0      0.0
OPERATIONAL PERIOD (START 07/01/00)
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Year 6 Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.7      3.2       3.2       2.0      0.8    0.0     0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3    0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs           1.0      3.5      3.5       2.3       1.1    0.0     0.0
Front-end fee    0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Financing               1.1      3.5      3.5       2.3       1.1    0.0     0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   1.0      3.0       3.0       2.0      1.0    0.0     0.0
Government                 0.1      0.5       0.5       0.3      0.1    0.0     0.0
Central                0.1       0.5      0.5       0.3      0.1    0.0     0.0
Provincial              0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Co-financiers              0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Others                     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Project Financing     1.1      3.5       3.5       2.3      1.1    0.0     0.0



37
Annex 6: Procurement Arrangements
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
1     Guidelines
Procurement of goods and works, and consultant services funded wholly or partly by Bank Loan
will be carried out in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines ("Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995 revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999, and the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997 revised September 1997 and January
1999 (the Guidelines).
There are several conflicts between the procurement procedures of the Government of Papua New
Guinea and those of the World Bank. These include but are not limited to:
*  to reserve all construction contracts valued between K 1.0 million and K 5.0 million to
citizen or national companies;
*  to reserve all construction contracts valued between K 5.0 million and K 10.0 million to
joint ventures and consortium group where the overseas partner has a maximum of 50%
share;
*  to open for general bidding only for contracts valued above K 10.0 million; to award all
consulting contracts up to K 100,000.00 to citizen companies only; and, that bidders
(contractors and consultant firms) must be registered with the association of national
contractors or consultants in order to participate in bidding.
The Government confirmed at negotiations that these provisions are not applicable to this project
and that World Bank procurement rules will apply. The proposed Procurement methods are
summarized in Tables A and Table A. 1.
2     Summary of the Assessment of the Agency Procurement Capacity.
Assessment of the procurement capacity of the DoM which (through the PCTU) is responsible for
all the of the procurements under the project, was carried out in accordance with the World Bank
Office Memorandum from the Manager of OCSPR, dated August 11, 1998. The assessment
involved review of the procurement policies and procedures adopted and implemented in the DoM.
In general, the law, rules and regulations relating to procurement being implemented by the DoM
adhere to the principles of competition and are intended to promote economy, efficiency and
transparency. However, certain provisions of the Public (Finances) Management Act No. 35 of
1995, the Financial Instructions of January 1987, and the GoPNG related decisions in NEC 66/92
and NEC 41/95 are unacceptable to the Bank.
Despite close relationship between DoM and Department of Petroleum, which is currently
implementing the Petroleum TA project, there is presently nil capacity at DoM to undertake
procurement under Bank financed project, hence it is required that procurement technical
assistance be undertaken under the project as part of the DoM and IRC institutional capacity



38
strengthening. The early establishment of a Project Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU),
will help DoM minimize project start up difficulties, advance project readiness and better manage
project implementation.
3     Methods
All Procurement under the project will be carried out by the PCIU within DoM following agreed
procedures and using the appropriate Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and Standard Request
for Proposals (SRP) of the Bank. Procurement under the project consists largely of consultancy
services and a few number of small goods contract intended to (i) improve the DoM's capacity for
developing, negotiating and managing mining exploration and operations, (ii) institutional
strengthening and capacity building for the IRC, and (iii) establishment of PCIU to be based at the
DoM
A. Goods: (US$ 1.43 million). Goods envisioned under this component, include purchase and
delivery of computers, office equipment software, geological data (satellite images) vehicles,
supplies, office furniture and fittings.
(a)   Goods packages with cost in excess of US$ 100,000 will be procured following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) using the appropriate Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents (SBDs), up to a maximum aggregate cost of about US$ 0.25 million. This consists of
one package of vehicles for project components 1, 2, 3 and 5.
(b)   Goods contracts estimated between US$ 50,000 and US$ 100,000 equivalent will be done
following International Shopping (IS) procedures as defined in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines, up to a maximum aggregate amount of US 0.27 million for remote sensing image,
software and equipment acquisition needed for strengthening the Geological Survey and
establishing a GIS system (for Component 5) which is highly specialized and only available from
a small number of specialized international suppliers
(c)   Goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent will be done following
National Shopping (NS) procedures as defined in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, up to
a maximum aggregate amount of US$ 0.31 million.
(d)   Goods Contracts estimated to cost between US$ 50,000 and US$ 100,000 equivalent each
up to a maximum aggregate value of about US$ 0.6 million will be done following Direct
Contracting procedures as defined in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines for digital and analogue
remote sensing satellite data and image which is only available from single sources for the GIS
system (Components 5).
B. Consultant Services (US$ 7.94 million). The services to be financed under the loan are:
policy and regulatory review, designing and equipping two data base centers with computer hard
and soft wares, commissioning and on-the-job training; technical assistance (regarding mining
sector administration, social and environmental protection, and fiscal auditing); training and
organizing study tours abroad. Selection of Consultants and their contracts will be based on the
Standard Request for Proposals issued by the Bank.



39
(a)   Selection of consultants up to aggregate amount of US$ 4.62 million equivalent, will be
carried out following Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) Method, in accordance with the
World Bank Consultant Guidelines Section II, paragraph 3 of Appendix I thereto, Appendix 2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants.
(b)   Selection of consultants up to aggregate amount of US$ 1.94 million, will carried out
following Quality Based Selection (QBS) Method, as described in paragraphs 3.1-3.4 of the
Consultant Guidelines because these are complex and specialized assignments where the client
expects the consultants to demonstrate innovation in their proposals.
(c)   Individual Consultants. Selection of individual consultants up to aggregate amount of US$
0.94 million, meeting the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individuals in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
(d)   Selection of consultants up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.05 million will be carried out
following Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB) method as defined in paragraph 3.5 of the
Consultant Guidelines for certain training and support related assignments.
(e)   Selection of consultants up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.26 million will be carried out
following Consultant Qualifications (CQ) method as defined in paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the appointment of the PCIU staff and for certain training assignments including
workshop and conference leaders and facilitators.
(f)   Single source selection. Short term consultants, which are estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.29 million, will be selected
and procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant
Guidelines.
(g)   Selection of Auditors, estimated at US$ 0.05 million, will be carried out is following the
least-Cost Selection (LCS) method in accordance with Paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
(h)   Training. Procurement of training will be carried following comparison of qualifications of
individual trainers or training institutions who have provided training in the past, satisfactory to the
Bank.
C.   Incremental Operating Costs (US$ 1.16 million). Support for project management,
operation, and supervision activities for both the DoM and IRC programs (including, but are not
limited to expenditures for travel, per diem, operating costs for vehicles, including vehicle
insurance, communications, meetings (such as retreats, seminars, workshops and conferences), and
office materials required for project implementation) will be provided in accordance with existing
Government prescribed limits and procedures acceptable to the Bank.



40
4 Prior Review. The procedures set forth in Paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply to:
(a)   first two contracts per year for goods procured following shopping procedures
(b)   Each contract for goods estimated to cost in excess of US$ 200,000 equivalent, and all
contracts awarded through ICB;
(c)   Consultants services with firms valued at US$ 100,000 equivalent or more, and contracts
with individuals valued at US$ 50,000 equivalent or more; and
(d)   Terms of Reference for all consultant services and individual services.
5. Post Review. With respect to each contract not governed by Para 4 above, the procedures set
forth in Paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Ratio shall be 1: 6 contracts.
6. Domestic Preference. For ICB procurement, goods manufactured in the territory of the
Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with and subject to the provisions
of Paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Annex 2 thereto.
7. Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing. To accelerate project implementation, the
DoM has proceeded with the initial steps of drafting the TOR, bidding documents, RFPs in
accordance with Paragraph 1.9 of the Guidelines. PCIU staff are planned to be mobilized by May,
2000. Award recommendation is expected to be submitted to the Bank before mid April, 2000.
Advance contracting and retroactive financing up to US$ 0.2 million will be included in the
project.
8. Procurement Improvement Action Plan: To ensure that procurement under the project will
be carried out efficiently and institutional capability will be strengthened within DoM and IRC, the
following will be undertaken:
(i)   Advance project readiness and minimize start up difficulties - will be accomplished
through establishment of PCIU ahead of effectiveness, to be staffed with a Project Director, a
Procurement Specialist and an Accounting Specialist  with satisfactory qualifications and
experience in carrying out project coordination and implementation, in accordance with TOR
acceptable to the Bank. The PCIU will be mainly responsible in carrying all aspects of
procurement (i.e. drafting bidding documents and reviewing TORs, etc).
(ii)   Improved planning and monitoring - will be accomplished through advance planning,
establishing a Procurement Benchmark and Disbursement Target (PBDT) which details the
milestones for all procurement vis-a-vis the resulting projected disbursement. The PBDT should be
based on the enclosed procurement plan (Attachment 1) agreed with the DoM during appraisal
and finalized at negotiations. The PCIU, along with the National Planning and Monitoring
Department, will review, monitor and update progress on the PBDT periodically every twelve
months.



41
(iii)   Strategic Direction and Oversight - a DoM/IRC Project Steering Committee has been
established which will provide overall strategic direction for the project, review project progress
and solve any inter-agency issues or problems that may arise.
(iv)   Capacity building - DoM and IRC staff will undergo integrated training on procurement
and financial management by about effectiveness of the Loan. As mainstreaming of PCIU tasks
into the DoM is required for sustainability of operations including the required transfer of
technology, the DoM and IRC should provide middle level DoM national professionals to work
closely with the PCIU
(v)   Procurement Operations Manual (POM) - A POM embodying principles of efficiency
and transparency will be issued and operationalized within six months of effectiveness. The
manual, which should be based on current Bank guidelines, should provide DoM clear
procurement steps, procedures and detailed instructions regarding the different stages of the
procurement processes, the activities in each process, the staff responsible for an activity and the
length of time allotted to the staff to complete an activity.



42
Procurement Methods - Table A
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement ArrangementsI
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category       1CB        NCB        Other2      N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00
(0.00)     (0.00)_     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                        0.25       0.00        1.18       0.00       1.43
(0.22)     (0.00)      (1.07)     (0.00)     (1.29)
3. Services                     0.00       0.00        8.23       0.00       8.23
(0.00)     (0.00)      (7.50)     (0.00)     (7.50)
4. Training                     0.00       0.00        0.61       0.00       0.61
(0.00)     (0.00)      (0.54)     (0.00)     (0.54)
5. Front-end fee                0.00       0.00        0.10       0.00       0.10
(0.00)    (0.00)       (0. 10 )   (0.00)     (0. 1 0)
6. Incremental Operating Costs    0.00     0.00        1.07       0.00       1.07
(0.00)     (0.00)      (0.49)     (0.00)     (0.49)
7. PCIU Operating Cost          0.00       0.00        0.09       0.00       0.09
(0.00)     (0.00)      (0.08)     (0.00)     (0.08)
Total                        0.25       0.00        11.28       0.00      11.53
(0.22)     (0.00)      (9.78)     (0.00)     (10.00)
1/     Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be finarced by the Bank. All costs include
contingencies
2/     Includes goods to be procured through international and national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs.
3/     Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Note: the "Other" procurement category for goods consists of US$ 0.6 million (UJS$ 0.56 million
Bank financing) satellite data and images for the geological infornation system to be procured by
direct contracting; US$0.27 million (US$ 0.23 million Ban-k financing) goods to be procured by
International Shopping and US$0.31million (US$ 0.28 mil][ion Bank financing) to be procured by
National Shopping



43
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements 1/
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                       Selection Method
Expenditure
Category       QCBS   QBS    SFB    LCS          CQ       SS    N.B.F.  Total
_______                    Cost,
A. Firms             4.61    1.95    0.05    0.05     0.00    0.00    0.00    6.66
(4.20)  (1.77)  (0.04)  (0.04)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (6.05)
B. Individuals       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.36    0.21    0.00    1.57
((0.00)   0.00)  (0.00)    1.26)  (0. 19   (0.00)  (1.45)
Total  4.61    1.95    0.05    0.05     1.36    0.21    0.00    8.23
(4.20)  (1.77)  (0.04)  (0.04)   (1.26)  (0.19)  (0.00)  (7.50)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
l\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
SS = Single Source Selection
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed



44
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
On the basis of the procurement capability assessment, the prior review thresholds will be
as follows.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Contract Value                           Contracts Subject to
Threshold          Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)          Method              (US$ millions)
1. Works                   no works contracts          n.a.                   n.a.
2. Goods
100 and above          ICB/DC                  1/0.25
50 -100                IS                    2/0.24
0- 50                 NS                    3/0.93
3. Services
Firms                        100 and above     QCBS/QBS/SFB/LCS             17/5.97
0 -100       and all terms of reference     None
applicable to the
respective values
Individuals                   50 and above                                   1/0.12
0 - 50              CQ/SS                   None
and all terms of reference
applicable to the
respective values
4. Miscellaneous                  n.a.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$7.51million
(82%)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement Plan
A Procurement Plan for the project has been prepared. It identifies all the packages for each
project component and provides key steps. The start and end times of each task relate to the first
year of project implementation. For subsequent years, the tasks would remain the same but the
start and end times (not possible to ascertain at this stage as these would also be need based) would
be different.
I Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



45
Annex 7: Disbursement, Project Financial Management, Financial Reporting and
Monitoring, and Implementation Planning Arrangements
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
A.   Disbursement
Table A: Allocation of Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in         Financing Percentage
US$million
Equipment and Materials                1.16        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory) and 85% of expenditures
for other items procured locally
Consultant Services and Training       7.21                  100%
Incremental Operating Costs            0.41        declining balance 80% through
2002; 60% 2003; 40% 2004; 20%
2005 thereafter
PCIU Operating Costs                   0.08        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory) and 85% of expenditures
for other items procured locally
Unallocated                            1.04
Total Project Costs                    9.90
Front-end fee     0.10
Total                                 10.00



46
A.1  Implementation Period: The implementation period for the project is estimated at four
years starting July 1, 2000. Annual disbursement based on the implementation schedules are
estimated as follows:
|Implementation Year      Year One   Year Two   Year Three  Year Four   Year Five
Disbursement (US$ million)  1.0     3.0        3.0       2.0        1.0
A.2   Disbursement Schedule: On the basis that the loan becomes effective in
September 2000, the disbursement schedule in the Bank financial years would be as
follows:
Bank Financial Year        2001      2002       2003       2004       2005
Disbursement (US$ million)   1.0     3.0        3.0        3.0        1.0
A.3   Disbursement Procedures. Disbursements would be made either directly by the Bank or
through a Special Account. In the latter case, the PCIJ through the DoM will open a Special
Account with a reputable commercial bank upon the authority of the Department of Treasury. The
account will be maintained in Kina. An initial deposit in Kina equivalent to US$ 500,000 will be
made into the account as an advance from the loan; this represents the four-month average of
project expenditures to be financed through the Special Account. All expenditures are expected
to be financed through the Special Account, however, if related individual payment is large, i.e.
exceeds 20% of the Special Account balance, PCIU , at their option, may submit withdrawal
application for payment outside the Special Account (i.e. Direct payment). Replenishment
applications should be submitted on a monthly basis. Disbursements for goods contracts less than
US$200,000 and consultants' services contracts less than US$ 100,000 for firms and less than
US$100,000 for individual contracts will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) for payments made from the Special Account. In addition, SOEs will be used for
incremental operating costs and for training-related disbursements. All documentation in respect
of SOE disbursements will be maintained by the PCIU and will be subject to periodic review by
the Bank. Direct payments, however, will be permitted for such small amounts on application to
the Bank if required and justified. Nevertheless, to the extent possible, payments would be
channeled through the Special Account. For payments of amounts of the value of US$200,000
and above, direct payments will be made on application to the Bank.
A.4   The project will finance incremental operating costs for DoM, IRC, and the PCIU. Funds
will be disbursed on a declining balance for the DoM and IRC incremental operating costs in order
to ramp up the government contribution so that it is sustainable after the project is completed. But
PCIU operating costs will be funded as a flat percentage since the PCIU will not continue to
operate once the project is completed.
A.5  Special Account. To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, a US$ 500,000
Special Account will be established. The Government will establish, maintain and operate the
special account under conditions acceptable to the Bank. Payments under 20% of the authorized
allocation to the special account will be made from the special account.  Replenishment
applications will be submitted quarterly.



47
B.   Project Financial Management
B.1   Finanical Management Assessment.
An assessment of the financial management systems of the DoM and IRC was carried out. The
accounting system used by the DoM is the computerized PNG Government Accounting System
(PGAS). The system has comprehensive expenditure control and reporting functions for
expenditures made under the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF), which is appropriated under the
Recurrent Budget. However, the PGAS can not provide the financial reports required by the Bank.
The manual systems and procedures , including the internal controls supporting the PGAS seem
adequate. The DoM has little experience with management of donor-funded projects. The two
AusAID funded projects being implemented by the DoM are managed by private contractors
employed by AusAID and there has been little administrative input from DoM in their
management. This situation requires establishment of a project management unit with experienced
and qualified staff. It is envisioned that financial management and procurement of both the DoM
and the IRC component will be handled by the Project Coordination and Implementation Unit
based in DoM.
B.2   Project Financial Management System.
In order to ensure that the project financial management system adheres to the GoPNG statutory
procedures and the Bank's project financial management and reporting requirements, it is
envisioned that project financial management system will essentially be a manual system with the
addition of a standard Microsoft Excel spreadsheet to record sufficient transactions in order to
generate required reports. A project accountant will be appointed, and it is proposed that
accounting support be provided through a reputable accounting firm to provide end-of-month
accounting and reporting services. It is expected that, once the Action Plan to establish the
project financial management system is completed, it will address weaknesses identified in the
assessment of the financial management systems of the implementing agencies. The PCIU will
compile, by the effectiveness of the loan, a project financial management handbook which will
reference applicable Bank and Government financial procedures for project implementation
providing clearly mapped guidelines. It is expected that PMR reporting will be generated by
December 31, 2000. The project will use traditional SOE disbursement procedures. However,
feasibility of adopting the PMR-based disbursement procedures will be reviewed by the end of
December, 2001.
B.3   Oversight.
In order to enable the project to be implemented in a timely and prudent manner, a DoM/IRC
steering committee will be established to oversee the project. The Secretary DoM will be the
Chairman and the Commissioner General of IRC will be the Deputy Chairman. A project
Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU) will be established within DoM and will be
responsible for project financial management and for managing the Special Account and making
disbursements of loan proceeds. The PCIU will consist of a director, a procurement specialist, and
a project accountant. The DoM will develop, by the date of effectiveness of the loan, a project
financial management handbook which will reference applicable Bank and Government financial



48
policies and procedures for project implementation. It will also develop an appropriate project
financial management system satisfactory to the Bank in order to produce the PMR reports as
outlined in the LACI Implementation Handbook, by December 31, 2000.
B.4   Audit Arrangements
The Borrower will be required to have the project financial statements audited for each fiscal year
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and make such audited statements available to the
Bank within six moths after the end of each fiscal year. The terms of reference for the audit will be
provided to the independent auditors prior to their engagement.
B.5   Financial Management Action Plan
The following action plan has been agreed with DoM for the financial management of the project.
Actions to be taken             Responsible Group        Completed By
I. Organization and Staffing
a. Appointment of DoM/IRC Steering          GoPNG               Completed March 3, 2000
Committee to oversee financial management and
reporting of the project.
b. Establishment of PCIU                   DoM (PCIU)            Completed March 3, 2000
c. Appointment of Project Director,        DoM (Steering         Effectiveness
Procurement Officer and Project Accountant  Committee)
II. Accounting System and Procedures
a. Issuance of a Financial Management System  DoM (PCTU)         Effectiveness
Handbook acceptable to the Bank
b. Issuance of a Procurement Operations Manual  DoM (PCIUJ)      December 31, 2000
acceptable to the Bank
c. Establishment of Project Financial      PCIU                  December 31, 2000
Management System acceptable to the Bank
C.   Financial Reportin2 and Monitoring
C.1 Project Progress Reports
The project will be using the project management reporting (PMR) system to monitor progress in
the physical implementation of the project and to assess the project's budgetary and financial
status. The following quarterly financial, project progress, and procurement management reports as
specified in the LACI Implementation Handbook will be produced: Model Reports IA, 1B, ID,
IE, IFI 1F2, 2A, 2B, 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D as required. Production of these quarterly reports will
commence after the end of the first quarter following the date of loan effectiveness.
C.2   Output Indicators
Whilst the financial reports and the procurement management reports clearly recognize input
data, the project progress reports require the use of output data to measure development



49
effectiveness. Identification of output measures will involve the measurement of outcomes to
assess overall project development effectiveness. The broad output indicators include the
following training outputs, studies, conferences, publications and data and equipment acquisition.
For the purpose of the Simplified Model Report 2B, the following have been selected as output
indicators:
ACTIVITY                        PMR UNIT               PLANNED OUTPUT
On-the-Job Training             Man-years of training  50
Short Courses                  Course                  20
Management Training             Course                 10
Post Graduate Studies           Study years            6
Industry Conferences            Events                 2
Promotional Packages            Package                2
Exhibitions                    Exhibition              8
Seminars/workshops              Seminars               20
Publications                    Publications           3
Institutional Study             Study                  2
Remote sensing data acquisition  US$ spent             550,000
Equipment acquisition           US $ spent             350,000
All of the above activities are readily measurable except for equipment and data acquisition which
are presented in expenditure terms.  In determining, the appropriate PMR unit to measure the
output of the on-the-job training activity, regard was given to the availability of professional staff
and experts' time as inputs on the basis that each expert has one counterpart staff member at all
times, total on the job training would be approximately 50 man years. Equipment that is envisaged
comprises: books, industry reports and journals to support studies, exhibition, seminar and
promotional materials, computer hardware and software, office equipment, etc. The activity in this
case is the acquisition of equipment, which due to its variety is not readily measurable per unit
acquisition. Therefore, the output measure for this activity is by value only. Outcomes in the
longer term, over and above the project outputs, that may contribute to development effectiveness
are development of the DoM into an independent and autonomous Government Authority and
increased social and environmental performance of the sector. These may not be measurable
against input costs and activities, but may represent sector development milestones with, or
otherwise subsequent to, implementation.
D.   Implementation Planning
D.1   Project Launch  In order to optimize project implementation, the DoM needs to be
prepared for project commencement. This will involve: establishing the organization,
procedure/guidelines, financial preparations and procurement processing as well as training in
financial management and procurement processing well head of loan effectiveness. These
requirements have already been identified in this Implementation Plan and are summarized as
follows:



50
PREPARATORY ACTIONS                             APPROXIMATE TIMING
Organizational
Establish Steering Committee                    Done
Establish PCIU Structure within DoM             Done
Engage PCIU Staff                               Three months prior to loan effectiveness
Engage accounting firm to support PCIU accountant   By loan effectiveness
Procedural
Prepare Financial Management Handbook           By Loan Effectiveness
Prepare Project Implementation Manual (including  Three months prior to loan effectiveness
Procurement)
Prepare PMR reporting forms                     By loan effectiveness
Training
Procurement Processes                           Two months prior to loan effectiveness
Financial Management                            Two months prior to loan effectiveness
Disbursement Processes                          Two months prior to loan effectiveness
Accounting and Reporting Systems                Two months prior to loan effectiveness
Audit Requirements                              Two months prior to loan effectiveness
Financial Management Preparation
Obtain Trust Authority for bank accounts        Two months prior to loan effectiveness
Open project bank accounts                      One month prior to loan effectiveness
Engage consultant/accounting firm to establish  Aprin/May 2000
Financial Management System
Establish project Financial Management System   December 31, 2000
Engage outside accounting firm to provide end-of-  Two months prior to loan effectiveness
month services
Preparations for Procurement: Year 1 Activities
(Commencement of precursory steps per
implementation schedules)
On-the-job training                             Two months before loan effectiveness
Terms of reference for first year's consulting services   end March 2000
Technical specifications for equipment procurement    end March - end June 2000
TOR for DoM organizational study                end March 2000
TOR for IRC Institutional Strengthening         end April 2000
TOR for Policy and Regulatory Strengthening     end April 2000
Studies
Training Program for Sustainable Development    end May 2000
Plan for Workshops and Conferences              end May 2000
TOR for Technical Audits                        end May 2000
TOR for Mineral Tenements Management            end June 2000
TOR for Institutional Strengthening of Geological  end June 2000
Survey
Plan for GIS Development                        end July 2000
Office Equipment and Vehicles Procurement       Bid documents issued by end April 2000



51
D.2  Implementation The main project activities and associated responsibilities
are detailed below.
Activity: Procurement Processing               Responsibility
Preparation of terms of reference for expertise and    Procurement Officer and relevant DoM
specifications for equipment                   Directors and IRC as appropriate
Preparation of tender/bid documents            Procurement Officer
Tender/bid evaluation                          Steering Committee & PCIU Director
Contract negotiation & finalization            Procurement Officer & PCIU Director
Activity: Financial Control and Audit          Responsibility
Project accounts                               Project Accountant
Preparation of end-of-month financial reports  Outside accounting firm
Internal audit                                 Steering Committee and PCIU Director
External audit                                 Independent Auditor
Activity: Studies and Policy Papers            Responsibility
Management of expertise                        appropriate DoM Division or IRC Director
Management of study                            appropriate DoM Division or IRC Director
Studies Coordination, Assessment and Review    PCIU Director
D.3   Schedule The overall project implementation schedule is provided in the Implementation
Manual.
D.4   Supervision. Project supervision involves a project launch mission, two field supervision
missions per year as well as a full-fledged implementation review mid way through the
implementation. The skill mix of the Supervision Task Team should be the same as that for the
Project Preparation Team. The timing, duration in weeks, and skill mix of the field supervision
missions should be along the following lines.
Mission No        Time       TTL       MS          PS         ESS
1             6/01            X                X
2             10/01      X         X           X           X
3             4/02       X
4             10/02      X         X           X           X
5             4/03       X      __  ___
6             10/03      X         X           X           X
7             4/04       X
8             10/04      X         X           X           X
TTL: Task Team Leader
MS: Mining Specialist
PS:   Procurement Specialist
ESS: Environmental and Social Specialist



52
Annex 8: Environmental and Social Issues in the Mining Sector
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
A. Environment
1.   Introduction
This technical assistance project is rated as a Category B for environmental purposes. The
project will not involve any direct investment in mining activities. However, while the project
will have no direct impacts, it may have indirect impacts by encouraging increased mining
activities. Also the sector itself does have significant impacts on the environment and in the case
of OK Tedi these remain highly controversial. Typically institution building projects such as this
are recommended as Category C under the OP/BP/GP 4.01. The team decided to upgrade the
category to B to reflect general concerns about environmental and social issues in the sector. The
project does not involve resettlement nor will trigger actions under any of the Bank's safeguard
policies.
No separate environmental assessment was prepared for this project. However, as part of
project preparation, an independent environmental consultant was retained to review
environmental issues in the mining sector. The consultant prepared a background note which
reviews recent performance in the sector, current and proposed, legislation and regulations,
institutional responsibilities, and training priorities.
2.    Environmental issues in the mining sector
The major environmental impacts for mining projects in PNG relate mostly to river and/or
ocean based mining waste and tailings disposal, processing and refining and smelting plants. All
of the large mining projects in PNG are subject to specific contractual and regulatory
environmental performance requirements.  The contractual requirements are included in
agreements between the project sponsor and the Government which are typically negotiated
during the mining license approval process (when there is a "Forum" between all of the interested
Government Departments and the investor).
In general, investors have prepared detailed environmental plans to high standards for all of
the large mining projects in PNG. There has been a relatively high degree of information
disclosure and consultation with affected peoples ("land owners") in PNG mining projects. These
projects are operated by international mining companies who operate in line with good
international practice and face not only regulatory penalties but also serious reputational risk if
compliance is not achieved with agreed requirements.
A 1992 review by World Bank specialists (Environmental Aspects of the Mining Sector,
World Bank draft report, September 1992) did not identify any serious concerns regarding impacts
in highly sensitive protected ecological areas, or site selection and management. However, the
report did raise concerns regarding the environmental impacts of the Ok Tedi operation and
pointed out the need for all potential options for waste and tailings disposal at Ok Tedi to be
reconsidered and re-examined. The report also identified a number of areas for improvement
relating to environmental legislative and regulatory aspects and institutional capacities.



53
An updated environmental review was undertaken in January 2000 as part of the project
preparation and appraisal. With the exception of the special case of Ok Tedi, the recent review
noted generally satisfactory environmental performance for the different projects. In particular,
the Porgera project has taken a very positive approach by establishing an environmental
monitoring committee with civil society and NGO representatives. However, for the sector as a
whole, there is still much room for improvements in the regulatory and institutional arrangements
and oversight.
3.   Institutional and Legal Framework
There are at present four laws directly related to environmental management in PNG.
These are: The Environmental Planning Act (1978) which contains the requirements for an
Environmental Plan (environmnental impact assessment) and an environmental monitoring plan.
The Environment Contaminants Act (1978) which is aimed at controlling air and water pollution
from effluent producing developments. The Water Resources Act (1982) which is primarily
directed at the use and allocation of surface and ground waters in PNG. The Conservation Areas
Act (1978) which allows for the setting up of the National Conservation Council to advise on the
location, design and approval of any development in or reasonably near an area declared as a
'conservation area'.
Both the Ok Tedi mine and the Bougainville mine have their own legislation and are
excluded from the Environmental Planning Act. These are the Mining (Bougainville Copper
Agreement) Act (1976) and the Mining (Ok Tedi Agreement) Act (1976). This came about
because both these projects were granted approval prior to the enactment of the Environmental
Planning Act (1978) or the Mining Act (198?)
The draft new Environment Bill has been drawn up under the auspices of an AusAid project
to OEC. Under this initiative, or in parallel with it, thirteen new policies, regulations and
guidelines have been established. These are all still in draft form and are discussed below. The
new Environment Bill is designed to replace the existing the Environmental Planning Act, the
Environmental Contaminants Act and the Water Resources Act and it repeals these Acts.
The new Environmental Bill is a positive development in bringing environmental legislation
in PNG up to date. However, there are a number of issues that are cause for concern both to
existing mining operations and future projects. The PNG Chamber of Mines and Petroleum, in
August 1999, produced a set of suggested amendments to the new Act. These are far more
comprehensive than anything that could be done in this report and cover most of the issues raised
above. Several additional issues are discussed in the consultant's report (February 2000).
The new Environment Bill takes a very democratic approach to management of the
environment with an Environment Council being appointed by a committee and being advised by a
Working Committee and an Environment Consultative Group. At present, there is only one full
time committee related to the environment. This is the Water Resources Board, which only
manages to meet sporadically, in spite of a legislative requirement for it to meet four times a year.
It is therefore difficult to believe that an additional layer of committees will be any more
successful. This could create significant delays in obtaining environmental permits and approvals.



54
The requirement in the new Bill for an Environmental Impact Assessment for level 3
activities is in line with international best practice. However, level 2 activities 'which pose a
threat of serious environmental harm' are also required to carry out a full Environmental Imnpact
Assessment whether that 'threat' is large and small. The interpretation of this is that any mining
projects, however small they might be, would still be required to do a full Environmental Impact
Assessment. The new Bill should include some provision for a lesser requirement for a smaller
project. The new Environmental Bill only refers to air quality in the section on Environmental
Contaminants. This area needs to be dealt with in more detail.
4.    Department of Mining
The Department of Mining (DoM) incorporates the Mining Division which includes the
Mining Co-ordination Branch and the Mineral Project Assessment Branch. The role of the
coordinators is to ensure effective liaison between government departments and mining companies
and to monitor company performance. There are at present eight coordinators based in Port
Moresby and five liaison officers based on mine sites.
The role of the Mineral Project Assessment Branch is to provide independent assessment
and expert advice on the technical and legal aspects of mineral projects. The branch has a senior
resource scientist and a resource scientist. The job descriptions for both resource scientists
includes reviewing minerals development proposals to evaluate the environmental impacts of
projects and assess the environmental aspects of minerals policies. However, they make no
mention of any on-going environmental monitoring role for mining projects.
The environmental work that the resource scientists are currently involved in includes on-
going monitoring and negotiations for the Ok Tedi mine, the Ramu project environmental plan
approval, the Simberi project, discussions regarding the new environmental legislation, drafting of
the proposed Mine Decommissioning and Rehabilitation Policy Framework and producing the
departmental quarterly reports. One officer also sits on the PEAK (Porgera Environmental
Advisory Komiti), an external advisory/reference group that was established in 1996 to address the
environmental concerns of the community and environmental groups at the Porgera mine.
All the major mining project produce quarterly environmental reports as required by the
OEC. Copies of these reports are sent to the project coordinators. The project coordinators also
attend quarterly meeting to discuss these environmental reports. However, these environmental
reports are not provided to the resource scientists for their comments on a regular basis, nor do the
senior scientists normally attend the meetings.
5.    Office of Environment and Conservation
In 1997 the Department of Environment and Conservation was changed to the Office of
Environment and Conservation (OEC): a move that many see as a down-grade. At the time of the
change the departmental budget was cut by 50 % and the nunmber of positions reduced from 159 to
89. The OEC budget for 2000 is K 4.5 million (US$ 1.5 million). The lack of capacity both in
terms of staff and finance severely limits the ability of the OEC to carry out its work efficiently.
The OEC has also moved offices and the present filing system can best be described as
disorganized, especially in respect to archiving reports and documents relating to mining projects.



55
The OEC has recently been the recipient of two aid funded projects. An EU funded project
provided two consultants to work with OEC to strengthen the mine monitoring unit and to prepare
the Environmental Code of Practice for the Mining Industry. The latter of these two projects is
still on-going. An AusAid funded project provided one consultant to work on the preparation of
the new Environment Bill and related legislation. The consultant also organized the library in the
new offices and started the cataloguing of reports but this work was not completed. This project
has now finished, even though the legislation has not been completed, and there are no immediate
plans to provide any additional funding in this area.
The Environment Division is responsible for the assessment of environmental impact
statements, or environmental plans, and the overall environmental management of all mining
projects in PNG with the exception of Ok Tedi and Bougainville. These latter two are the legal
responsibility of the Department of Mining (DoM) though the OEC are involved in all negotiations
and decisions. The Environment Division currently has a staff of 18 working at the offices in Port
Moresby as well as field officers at the Porgera, Lihir and Misima mines. The quality of the staff
from this division that were present at meetings was remarkably good though, in the main, they
lack the relevant training that would enable them to carry out their work efficiently. The main
strength of the division is in the area of water resources and chemistry.
The OEC particularly lacks skills in a number of critical aspects of the environmental
management of mining projects.  These shortfalls include basic mining training, overall
environmental management of a project, the ability to assess monitoring plans and quarterly
reports so that issues as well as compliance are addressed, air quality monitoring, acid rock
drainage and rehabilitation. This lack of knowledge was particularly evident with the site officers
at Porgera and Lihir mine sites.
6.   Recommendations from Environmental Consultant Report (Feb. 2000)
(i)   Legislation
A large percentage of the new environmental legislation that is currently being drafted by the
OEC is relevant to the mining industry. In addition, the DoM are currently in the process of
drafting a Mine Decommissioning and Rehabilitation Policy. Since the completion of the AusAid
project that was assisting with this work, the two departments have been carrying on this work
internally. However, there is concern that the new Environment Act, and the raft of policies,
regulations and guidelines that are being drafted to support it, have the potential to make
understanding the environmental requirements and their implementation extremely complex.
This Technical Assistance Project will facilitate DoM and OEC working together more
closely to make the proposed legislation more applicable for the mining sector and completing the
Mine Decommissioning and Rehabilitation Policy.



56
(ii)   Government Co-ordination and Liaison
Co-ordination between the Department of Mining project co-ordinators and the resource
scientists in regard to support of environmental monitoring for the existing mines, with the
exception of Ok Tedi, appears to have broken down. Co-ordination between the DoM project co-
ordinators and the OEC is also limited. At the same time the shortage of resources, both in the
form of manpower and financing, is reducing the capacity of the government to comprehensively
monitor and manage the environmental impact of existing mines.
This Technical Assistance Project can assist DoM to undertake a review of the co-ordination
between the project co-ordinators and the resource scientists and, with the co-operation of the
OEC, between DoM and OEC.
(iii) Government on Mine Site
The presence of three levels of government on each operating mine site, and the lack of co-
operation and co-ordination between them, is reducing the effectiveness of the monitoring and
management role of the government. The government loses credibility by failing to present a
united face to the company and the landowners. This is very frustrating for the company and has
the potential to create problems with the landowners. In addition, the lack of government
resources reduces the ability of any of the officers to carry out their roles efficiently.
This Technical Assistance Project will assist DoM to help strengthen the relationship
between the national, provincial and local government on existing mining sites and the liaison
between the government and the company and the landowners.
(iv)  Environmental Audits
It became evident during the project preparation and visits to two of the operating mines that
the OEC are having trouble keeping up with the enforcement of the environmental legislation and
the overall environmental management. This is due, in the main, to a lack of capacity in the form
of manpower and financing. The result is that there are a number of critical enviromnental issues
that have not been dealt with adequately.
This Technical Assistance Project, with the co-operation of OEC, will facilitate improved
environmental audits of the existing mining projects and provide advice on procedural issues.
(v)   Training Priorities
There are a number of skill shortages both within the DoM, in respect to the project
coordinators and the resource scientists, and the OEC, which impact their ability to carry out their
respective roles effectively. These include, but are not limited to, the following aspects:
(a)   Basic Mining: Many of the staff of both departments do not have any formal training in
mining and anything they do know has been learnt on the job. Their knowledge is therefore
extremely limited.



57
(b)   Overall Environmental Management: Most of the staff of both departments do not have any
training in the overall environmental management of a mining project. This limits their ability to
understand the environmental aspects of a project and to identify or address issues when they arise.
©     Air Quality: The resource scientists in DoM and the staff of OEC appear to have a limited
awareness of air quality issues and their management and monitoring.
(d)   Acid Rock Drainage: The resource scientists in DoM and the staff of OEC appear to have
a limited awareness of the issues related to acid rock drainage and its management and monitoring.
(e)   Rehabilitation: The resource scientists in DoM and the staff of OEC appear to have a
limited awareness of rehabilitation planning, methods and procedures and subsequent monitoring.
This Technical Assistance Project will, with the co-operation of OEC, provide a series of
training workshops that will address the above issues. The Technical Assistance Project will also
include a study and workshop regarding possible methods of mine waste disposal (tailings and
waste rock) that would be applicable to PNG, covering all aspects of land, river and ocean disposal
options.
7.    Actions Proposed under the Project
While a new environmental law has been drafted with assistance from AusAid this is a
complex set of legislative proposals which do not address mining-specific issues or social impacts.
The overall environmental framework for Papua New Guinea is beyond the scope of this project,
however, the project would help provide institutional strengthening which is expected to have a
positive impact on the environment.  This includes environmental-related workshops and
conferences with major stakeholders and training activities for both DoM and OEC staff. These
activities will improve the skills and capabilities of DoM and OEC staff to conduct technical field
audits of mining projects, to investigate mine safety and environmental compliance, and to work
with mining companies to improve the environment sustainability of the operations.
8.    Consultation
As part of project preparation the project team held consultative meetings with local NGOs
and concerned stakeholders. These groups included: World Wildlife Fund (WWF), IKraft,
representatives of Landowner Associations; representatives of the Chamber of Mines and
Petroleum; and other local NGOs
B.    Social
Mining projects have significant social impacts and mining companies have been
progressively learning how to take into account the views of local communities and how to
improve their abilities to work with local communities to maximize the benefits from mining
activities. The process for effectively addressing social issues in a project context should involve,
first, consultation and information sharing with local communities leading to a social impact
assessment; second, the assessment should then form the basis for designing subsequent social



58
action programs; third, is implementation of the action programs; and, fourth, is monitoring to
ensure that the programs are properly implemented.
A review in 1992 by Bank specialists (Environmental Aspects of the Mining Sector, World
Bank draft report, September 1992) found that Social Impact Assessments have been prepared for
all of the projects and concluded that these represented serious professional efforts to identify and
mitigate social impacts associated with the projects. There has been no involuntary relocation in
mining projects. For each project, there are project-related social and environmental agreements
bilaterally between the company and the landowners and the Government and the landowners (as
well as agreements between the Government and the company). These agreements address matters
such as employment, contracting from local sources, project impacts, compensation, provision of
infrastructure and social services.
While these agreements provide a potentially useful framework for addressing social impacts
of mining projects, the report also found that progress on the ground in dealing with social issues
was limited at that time and that monitoring has been ineffective. Since then, mining companies
have considerably increased their attention to implementation and monitoring of social impacts of
mining projects, although the parameters and methodologies used to assess the impacts are still
evolving.
A conference on Mining and the Community was organized in Madang, PNG in 1998 co-
sponsored by the World Bank, Metal Mining Agency of Japan, Government of PNG and the PNG
Chamber of Mines and Petroleum. The case studies presented at this conference demonstrated that
Papua New Guinea is moving to the forefront of dealing with social and community-related issues
in mining projects and with designing benefit and infrastructure delivery schemes. At the Misima
project, the mine provides a service delivery mechanism for certain medicines not only on Misima
Island but to the population on the mainland and on dozens of islands in Milne Bay Province.
The Lihir project is presented in World Bank Discussion Paper 384, Integrating Social
Concerns into Private Sector Decision Making, January 1998 as an example for good practice for
community identification although the revenue distribution and compensation scheme do not
provide sufficiently broad based benefits, especially for women and children. A social review of
the mining sector conducted during project preparation found that while there remains
considerable room for further improvement, overall a good amount of progress has been made
regarding social issues and today the landowners are very well organized and well able to deal
with project developers and operators.
In particular, the arrangements for the Ramu Project (which was submitted to the
Government for approval in late 1999) which include establishment of a Ramu Regional Planning
Committee seem very promising. The project will contribute to improve social aspects of mining
projects in PNG, especially regarding social impacts by providing workshops with all the major
stakeholders and by providing training for both DoM and OEC staff on social issues. In addition,
the work on a standardized mining development contract should also improve the treatment of
social issues.



59
Annex 9: Project Processing Schedule
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
Project Schedule                              Planned             Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            08/15/98            08/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                    01/24/2000          01/24/2000
Negotiations                                   04/03/2000          04/28/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/15/2000
Prepared by:
Department of Mining, Internal Revenue Commission
Preparation assistance:
Office of Environment and Conservation
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                               Speciality
John Strongman                     Mining Advisor
Koh Naito                          Mining Specialist
Noel Sta. Ines                     Procurement Specialist
Rarnanie Kunanayagam               Social Specialist
Behdad Nowroozi                    Financial Specialist
Robert Cohen                       Financial Consultant
Meredith Sassoon                   Environmental Consultant
Claude Ginet                       Implementation Consultant
loannis John Balafoutis            Financial Officer
Hilarion Bruneau                   Financial Management Specialist
Draft PAD reviewed by:
Maurice Le Blanc                   Procurement
Hung Kim Phun                      Disbursement
Glenn Morgan                       Enviromnent



60
Annex 10: Documents in the Project File*
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Project Implementation Plan, draft March 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Financial Management Assessment, draft report December 1999;
*  Financial Management Assessment, Final Report March 2000;
*  Procurement Assessment, January 2000;
*  Mining Sector draft Environmental Assessment, 1992;
*  PNG Mining Sector - Social Aspects, draft March 2000;
*  PNG Environmental Issues in the Mining Sector, draft February 2000
*  Various Mission Back to Office reports
*  Appraisal Aide Memoire, February 2, 2000
C. Other
*  Mineral Resources Authority - draft Plan September 1999
*  Geological Surveys in Developing Countries - Strategies for Assistance, British
Geological Survey 1998
*  Draft Terms of References for Consultancy Services, Department of Mining, April
2000
*Including electronic files



61
Annex 11: Statement of Loans and Credits
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions          And actual
Disbursementsa
Project ID     FY            Borrower                      Purpose                 IBRD      IDA      Cancel  Undisb.         Orig     Frm
Rev'd
SECOND GAZELLE
P054328        2000      Papua New Guinea   RESTORATION PROJECT                     25.26    0.00      0.00    25.26        0.00       0.00
P055446        1998      Papua New Guinea   EMERGENCY EL NINO                        5.00    0.00      0.00      4.25       2.52       0.00
P004391        1994      PapuaNew Guinea   PETROLEUM DEVT T.A.                      11.00    0.00      0.00     0.17        0.17       0.00
P004392        1993      Papua New Guinea   PG-EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT                35.00    0.00      0.00     17.31      17.31       0.00
P004399        1993      Papua New Guinea   POPULATION PROJECT                       6.90    0.00      0.00      3.24       3.24       0.00
Total:   110.16    0.00      0.00      64.40      37.41      0.00
Active              Closed             Total
Projects             Projects
Projects             Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):         62.66               585.06            632.42
Of which has been repaid:            9.35                282.71           292.06
Total now held by IBRD and            94.61               306.99           388.04
IDA:                       0.00                 15.39            15.39
Amount sold:                   0.00                 15.39            15.39
Of which repaid                 51.69                0.00             42.12
Total Undisbursed
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal



62
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
hi Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval          Company                         Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:        0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                          Loan     Equity   Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Conmuitment:       0.00      0.00    0.00          0.00



63
Annex 12: Country at a Glance
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA
(see next page)



64
Paoua      Easit  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  New    Asia, &   middle.      . .
Guinea    Pacific  income      Development diamond*
1998
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                      4,6     1.817      90                  Life expectancy
GNP oer caoita (Atlas method. USS)                   890       990    1t710
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                     4.1     i.802     1.557
Averaae annual orowth, 1992-98                                                                    T
Pooulation 1%)                                       2.3       1.2       1.1
Labor force (1%)                                     2.3       1.8       1.i     GNP                             Gross
per                  7         primary
Most recent estimate tlatest:vear availabie. 1992-981                            capita           .          r nrnimp.nt
Povertv t% of oooulation below natfonal ooverfv line) 
Urban oooulation 1% oftotaf ooulafionI                1 7       35       58
Life exoectancy at birth (veats)                      58        69       68
Infant mortalitv four 7.OOOlivebiths)                 f1        37       33
Child malnutrtion 1% of children under 51             30        20                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (f° of oooulation)               31        77       75
Illiteracy (% of oooulation aoe f51                    ..     :1         14
Gross orimarvenrollmert (%ofschoolaae oooulationl     80       117      10f3             PapuaNewGuinea
Male                                               87        119      105              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             74        113      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977   :1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP fUS billions)                            1.6     3,1       4.8      '3.7
Gross domestic investment/GOP              21.6    20.5       27.1      30.3
Exoorts of ooods and services/GOP          45.0    43.2       53.6      68.2                    Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                 20.3    14.0       23.0    :28.3
Gross national savinos/GOP                 28,7  :      1     18.0      21.5
Current account balance/GOP                 6.0   *13.9        -4.7     -1.      Domestic 6         .            m
Interest oavments/GDP                       2.0      4.9       1.7       1.9    Savings
Total debt/GDP                             41.2    72.4       47.7      62.7
Total debt service/exDorts                  14.3    24.8      14.3       7.9                      i
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..      38.7
Present value of debt/exoorts                -.        .      70,4
Indebtedness
197747  19884-8     1997      1998   199943
(averaoe annual arowthl                                .
GDP                                 1.6     4        4.6       2.5       1.4              Papua New Guinea
GNP cer caoita                     -0.8     2,0     4.6        0.0      4.7          -   Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services      3.6      9.1      -1.2     10.4       2.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       so
Aoaculture                                 33.0    29.9       27.4      24.4    40
Industrv                                   26.1    31.7       36.6      42.3    20 -
Manufacturino                              7.7      9.4       9.5      9.0      o
Services                                   40.9    38.5       36.0      33.3      0
-20               9    96   97   98
Private consumotion                        53.7    63.6       54.7      51.0    -40
General oovemment consumDtion              26.0    22.4       22.3      20.7               -GDI           ¢  GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services              46.3    49.7       57.6      70.2
197747  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(averaoe annual orowth)
Aoriculture                                 2.2      2.8       -4.2     -6.4    40
Industrv                                    3.2      8.4      -14.2     18.9    30
Manufacturino                              0.7      3.8       5.2     -0.1     20 
Services                                    2.0      2.8       6.0      -5.5
Private consumotion                         1.6      2.6       -3.6      9.4 10
General oovernment consumotion              -1.5     0.8       8.4    -13.6                 94    9    96   97   93
Gross domestic investment                   0.1      3.7      -7.8       4.1    10
Imoorts of ooods and services               1.0      4.8       3.9      13.4                  Exports    e-imports
Gross national oroduct                      1.4      4.3      -5.5       2.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaae. If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomolete.



65
Papua New Guinea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         20 
Consumer prices                               4.5      3.4       4.0      13.6    15 -
Implicit GDP deflator                         7.4      8.0       3.4      10.3    10 -
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                a
Current revenue                                ..    22.9       27.7      24.2            93   94   95   93   97   9S
Current budget balance                                 3.1       1.0      -0.9              -GDP deflator    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -7.5      -4.4      -7.4
TRADE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ mililons)
Total exports (fob)                            ..   1,259      2,192     1,843     .0O0
Gold                                         ..    466         501       607
Copper                                       ..      310       226       323     2OD
Manufactures                                  .
Total imports (cif)                             .    12292     12895     1,289
Food                                                9203       244       196                              9 95   7
Fuel and energy14                                              20        12
Capital goods                                 ..     390       763       519        o 
Exoort oDriCe index (1995=100)                  ,      64        100       79
Imoort Doce index (1995=100)                    ..      ..       103       99                t Exports    U Imports
Terms of trade f1995=100)                      ..       ..        97        80
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                721    1,306      2,507     2,141     20
Imports of goods and services                743    1.462      2,396     1,956     1
Resource balance                             -22      -157       111      185
Net income                                    -51     -177      -303      -237
Net current transfers                          7      1           32        -       5
Current account balance                       99    -438        -224      -58       0
53  94   95              98 
Financing items (net)                         39      420        138      -103
Changes in net reserves                      -138      18         86       161    -101
Memo:
Reserves includino oold IUS$ millions)       427      437        355      194
Conversion rate (DEC. local/tJSS)             0.8      0.9       1.4       2.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ mittions}                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          676    2,276     2,272     2,349
IBRD                                        51      148        270      267                    G:154    A 267
IDA                                         31      117        101      100
Total debt service                            111     356        374       178
IBRD                                         5       19         47       45                                    C4
IDA                                          0        1          3        3
Composition of net resource flows                                                     F:843
Offidial grants                            243      271        185
Official creditors                          17      109         -2       -14D:487
Private creditors                           22        7        -57      -14
Foreign direct investment                   20       93        200
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0                                   E: 452
World Bank program
Commitments                                  19      74        . 0        0      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               12       33         48       14      6-IDA    D- Other multilateral   F Pnvate
Principal repayments                          1       10        31       31      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    10      23         18       -17
Interest payments                            3       11         19       17
Net transfers                                 7       12        -2       -34
Development Economics                                                                                               9/16/99






IBRD 30894
I                   145'                                                         lDT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                       155'
Monuo                                 MINING SECTOR ~~~~~PAPUA NEW GUINEA
LoreMIINGSECORINSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
TI V IR SIL                         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
K-ooi-g                         ESTGFURENA lOAlLROADS
DO                                                                           kekoed *Sim   i                    SMALL             VALOR PROVINCIA, ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJR ROIICALROD
AitTpe   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            *    * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LARGE  RIVERS
L-hir                                 ELECEED TOWERA AD VILLAGEE
Wenook  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~              PROVNCECARTAG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VIC APTL
00.                                                                                   Nomolonol ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  I ATIGNAL CAPITAL
I/O'                                                    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~LA' WWPR                                                   EPOVINCE TOONDAR ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POICE8ONARE
AN,5RRwS4,~~~~~~~~~~      - -               holw~~~~~~~~~~d~~         Rokoul                                       REGION ROOPoDARES~~~~~~~~~REON OUDAIE
C/)              MATARA                                                                                                                      POTEDA 00-ALL BODNOARITI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRNTONLBONARE
Z                 Nenca                                                                                                                         Mt5Snhi
*-   Porg era                 RANTATM.d-E 
-  OKTedi                 u        Wobo    >R-mu
MtA(a~~~~e           'CU,
Gooo                                                                                                                      /s/an hfd  Arow,
Hoogo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     N~~~~~ o i o
'/NTEND  TAD/TNT  'TIMED  0'    1                                                                                 ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(non-operational
"-.  01111  'C  lANDS                                                                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
KLik-~                         W..11 
o,   Hidden  E                                                         .e'         ~~~~~~~~~~~SOLOMON
0010010   Valley ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0 ~~ISLANDS
Telukuma 
D-0-                                                                                                 o~~~~~~~~.     r Rp  HEAE  Wood!ark
-                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORT MORESB
Capital                                                                                                                    NWGIE
(ENDEREAtoo
TA  eno ooo n,OAnOn ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                           *   ~~~M5sima
0010- d   nd
00 ,6,0   oAooIO  0k000020
-h0          AUSTRALIP~                                              IV
145'                                                          1 5T'                                                         ISV
MlAY OS



