                                         Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                        Report No:ICR000049




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                        ( IBRD-70180)




                                            ON A




                                LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                    US$ MILLION 10.00




                                             TO




                                     Papua New Guinea


                                             FOR




            Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening Technical Assistance Project

                                        May 20, 2007




Oil, Gas &Mining Policy and Operations Division
Papua New Guinea and Pacific Islands
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2006)

                              Currency Unit = Kina
                             US$ 1.00 = Kina 3.03
                             Kina 1.00 = US$ 0.33



                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 ­ December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ASM  ­ Artisanal and small-scale mining
CAS  ­ Country Assistance Strategy
DOM ­ Department of Mining
GIS   ­ Geological Information System
GoPNG ­ Government of Papua New Guinea
GST   ­ Goods and services tax
IRC   ­ Internal Revenue Commission
ISR   ­ Implementation Status and Results
JSDF  ­ Japanese Social Development Fund
NEC   ­ National Executive Council
MoA   ­ Memorandum of Agreement
MOP   ­ Memorandum of the President
MRA   ­ Mineral Resources Authority
PAD   ­ Project Appraisal Document
PDO   ­ Project Development Objective
PNG   ­ Papua New Guinea
PCIU  ­ Project Coordination and Implementation Unit




        Vice President: Katherine Sierra

      Country Director: Nigel Roberts

       Sector Manager: Peter A. van der Veen

   Project Team Leader: John E. Strongman

   ICR Team Leader:     Adriana Eftimie

                                             Papua New Guinea
                     PG-Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening TA




                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................... 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 11
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 11
 6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 13
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 15
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...................................................................................... 16
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 17
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 21
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................... 25
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 27
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................... 28
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 29
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 31
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 33
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     PG-Mining Sector Inst.
Country:                Pap. New Guinea       Project Name:
                                                                     Strengthening TA
                                                                     IBRD-70180,JPN-
Project ID:             P060330               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     50523
ICR Date:               06/21/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:              PNG
Original Total
                        USD 10.0M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 10.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Department of Mining
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/19/1999    Effectiveness:         09/13/2000        09/13/2000
Appraisal:             01/31/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/01/2000    Mid-term Review:       03/31/2003        01/16/2004
                                     Closing:               12/31/2005        05/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                         No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                           100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Pollution management and environmental health              Secondary          Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                           Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:          Katherine Sierra                 Jemal-ul-din Kassum
Country Director:        Nigel Roberts                    Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:          Peter A. van der Veen            Peter A. van der Veen
Project Team Leader:     John E. Strongman                John E. Strongman
ICR Team Leader:         Adriana Maria Eftimie
ICR Primary Author:      Adriana Maria Eftimie



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO is to strengthen the institutional capacity within the Department of Mining
(DoM) and the Internal Revenue Commission (IRC) to administer and regulate
exploration and mining projects and to thereby contribute to socially and environmentally
sustainable private mineral investment in the Papua New Guinea (PNG) mining sector.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There was no revision of the original project objectives, as stated in the MOP and the
Loan agreement. The Project objectives, as designed, were successful in meeting
Government objectives and in applying World Bank assistance to the mining sector.




                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
                                               approval        Target        Completion or
                                             documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   increased annual exploration investment
Value
quantitative or US$15 million             US$25 million                   US$ 25 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2005                      12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                      Achieved at
                                               approval        Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :   DOM to prepare four position papers, one each on Small-scale mining; Offshore
                Mining;Mine Safety and Health; Mine Closure
Value
(quantitative   0                         4                               4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2005                      12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   DoM to Organize 5 Conferences/Workshops Addressing Sustainability Issues
Value
(quantitative   0                         5                               5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2005                      12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   DoM to Assist in Preparation of 1-2 Regional Development Plans for Mining
                Regions
Value
(quantitative   0                         2                               2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2005                      05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   DoM to undertake 10 Exploration and/or Mining Project technical audits



                                               iii

Value
(quantitative  0                         10                           10
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2005                   12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Geological survey to digitize 37 geological maps
Value
(quantitative  0                         37                           37
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2005                   12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  IRC to undertake three tax audits
Value
(quantitative  0                         3                            2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/30/2005                   05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                          IP         Disbursements
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1     06/26/2000         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              0.00
  2     12/26/2000         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              0.35
  3     06/27/2001         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              0.54
  4     12/26/2001         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              0.81
  5     06/27/2002         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              1.53
  6     12/18/2002         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              2.94
  7     06/26/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              4.25
  8     12/07/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              5.56
  9     12/19/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              5.58
  10    06/25/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              6.85
  11    12/29/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              7.72
  12    06/01/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              8.83
  13    07/24/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory              8.93
  14    10/11/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory             10.00




                                              iv

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Since independence the mining sector has dominated the local economy and economic fortunes of
Papua New Guinea. This sector has made substantial contributions to national and provincial
government revenues against a background of challenging social issues and significant
environmental impacts in some mining areas. Three major gold mining projects started up in the
early to mid 1990s ­ Misima, Porgera and Lihir but there was a significant decline in investor
interest in the late 1990s reflecting a lack of confidence in sector policies and capacity. Wanting
to improve the situation, the Government turned to the Bank for assistance to strengthen sector
policies and rebuild sector institutional capacity in order to attract new private mineral investment
and to ensuring that mining takes place in a sustainable manner. The Bank was well positioned to
respond to the request since it had considerable experience in providing mining sector technical
assistance to countries, it had built in-depth knowledge of the PNG mining sector through its
country economic work and no other donors had the expertise or interest to support mining sector
capacity building at that time.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Department of Mining (DoM) and the Internal Revenue Commission (IRC) to administer and
regulate exploration and mining projects and to thereby contribute to socially and
environmentally sustainable private sector mining investment. There were two key sets of
performance indicators namely:

A.       Strengthen present mineral policy to maintain and increase private investment and
exports:
    · increased annual investments in exploration and in new mining projects
         relative to 1999 level;
    · increased annual mineral exports relative to 1999 level;
    · number of mineral spin-off businesses;
    · enactment of legislation on offshore mining, mining safety, and revision
         of the Mining Act 1992 and establishment of the Mineral Resources
         Authority;
    · preparation of a revised standard mining contract; and
    · completion of eight seminars or workshops on environmental,
         engineering, social and development issues associated with mining
         operations.

B.       Increase capacity of DoM/IRC to investigate, audit, regulate and manage the mining
industry:
    · new social impact assessment guidelines for mining;
    · new social monitoring guidelines for mining;
    · number of annual DoM full technical and mine safety audits for each
         mining operation (five operations at present);




                                                  1

    · number of IRC full tax audits on mining and petroleum companies
         resulting in increased related revenue;
    · environmental and social practice and compliance statistics;
    · mine safety statistics;
    · mineral-related taxes collected; and
    · number of geological thematic maps issued.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
There was no revision of the original project objectives as stated in the MOP and the Loan
agreement, or the key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

The main beneficiaries of the project included:

    · the staff of DoM and IRC who benefited from training;
    · National Mining Authorities who benefited from improved capacity to manage and audit
         the mining sector activities;
    · local communities and land owners who benefited from improved living conditions as a
         result of increased mining-related benefits and reduced mining-related risks;
    · small scale mining communities who benefited from improved availability of extension
         services and information;
    · the people of Papua New Guinea in general who benefited from improved government
         services as a result of higher mineral sector tax payments; and
    · private foreign and domestic exploration and mining investors who benefited from
         improved policies and mining sector institutional capacity.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The design of all seven-project components was clearly linked to the Project Development
Objectives. The loan focused on the Government's objectives of (i) strengthening the mineral
policy to maintain and increase private investment and exports and (ii) increasing the capacity of
DoM/IRC to investigate, audit, regulate and manage the mining industry. The components were
as follows:

A. Policy and Regulatory Institutional Strengthening: review and development of future
structure of DoM, mineral policy, strategy, and regulation for promotion of exploration; small
scale mining; offshore mining; mine safety and health; and mine closure.

B. Development of DoM Capacity to Monitor and Execute Technical Audits of Exploration
and Mining Activities: preparation of monitoring and auditing strategies; implementation of new
institutional arrangements including organization, staffing, and work methodology; and training
and operational support.




                                                  2

C. Strengthening of DoM Mineral Tenements Management: development of a strategic
action; execution of field assessments; lease boundary definitions; and development of a mineral
tenements management database.

D. Development of DoM Project Coordination and Environmental Assessment Capacity for
Sustainable Development in Mining Project Areas in conjunction with Office of Environment
and Conservation (OEC): policy formulation and strategic planning, training and workshops and
conferences with all interested stakeholders and other departments including OEC so that
government can take a more pro active role regarding mining project sustainability and
integration of mining projects into broader regional development frameworks.

E. Institutional Strengthening of the Geological Survey and Development of Geological
Information System (GIS) Capabilities: remote sensing, geophysical data interpretation, and
development of a national litho-stratigraphic database; and compilation of geological information;
upgrading of information system and facilities; and on the job training.

F. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building for IRC: upgrading equipment;
implementation of new institutional arrangements including organization, staffing, and tax audit
and work methodology; and on the job training and operational support.

G. Project Coordination, Monitoring, and Evaluation: hiring, supervising staff; managing
procurement; contract accounting and auditing; preparing quarterly annual reports and annual
operation plans; and monitoring progress and evaluate results.

H Others (Auditors Fee)

1.6 Revised Components

There was no formal revision of the components but Component D (Sustainable Mining
Development) was expanded to specifically address gender-related             impacts of mining
development. .

An important opportunity to improve development outcomes was identified and developed under
the Sustainable Mining Development component which was expanded to include a "Women in
Mining" sub component that supported the development of women's activities in mining
impacted communities. This work came out of recognition that without the development of
women in these communities, Sustainable Development was not achievable. As an outcome of a
successful "Mining and Community" conference in 1999 and a "Mining and Sustainable
Conference" in 2001 at which mining companies, governments and community members engaged
in a productive dialogue which helped identify actions and initiatives to improve the community
impacts of PNG's mining operations. As a result of a dialogue on women and women's issues
related to mining that started at the 2001 Sustainability conference, the project supported the
organization of a first Women and Mining Conference (in 2003) which resulted in the
identification of actions to reduce and mitigate the negative environmental and social impacts of
mining on women and improve and enhance the positive impacts of mining for women. A
second follow up Women and Mining Conference was held in 2005 at which the Women's
Associations, the mining companies and different government departments reported back on the
implementation actions that they had taken as a result of the 2003 conference.




                                                 3

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The scope of three components (Component A - Legal Services, Component B - Mining and
Exploration Technical Audits, and Component F - Internal Revenue Commission) were decreased
and one project sub-component, (the Stratigraphic Lexicon in the Component E - Geological
Survey) was cancelled as a result of the weakening of the US Dollar (the currency in which the
loan was denominated) against other currencies in which the project was implemented in
particular the Australian Dollar in which several of the largest contracts were denominated. In
addition, not all the training, and, in particular, the training elements anticipated under the
technical audits component, could be completed due to a shortage of DoM staff as a result of a
freeze on recruitment imposed by the Department of Personnel Management (DPM).
Notwithstanding repeated appeals from both DoM and the Bank team, DPM refused to grant
DoM the employee identity numbers needed by DoM to be able to appoint new staff to fill
vacancies. Further details on the exchange rate and staffing shortages are given in the Project
Implementation Section.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Quality at entry is rated as "Satisfactory". The lessons of other mining sector technical
assistance operations were taken into account and reflected in the project design including: (a) a
sector-specific focus and improvements with clear delineation of authority and responsibility of
different ministries and agencies involved in the sector; (b) strong beneficiary participation in
project preparation, and organization and coordination at the field level; (c) supervision by
technical specialists; and (d) ownership and political commitment to project objectives and to
ensure strong local leadership and availability of counterpart funds. The main risks were
identified as (i) political interference in the mining sector; (ii) inadequate recurrent budgets for
the two mineral sector institutions; and (iii) satisfactory performance of consultants. These risks
were generally adequately mitigated although the project was impacted by staff shortages in DoM
which reduced the effectiveness of training under the project. The project was prepared in a
highly participatory process which resulted in strong Government ownership of the Project
being fostered during project preparation and appraisal, which substantially facilitated
implementation and contributed to reaching the project outcomes. The Project was regarded
positively from the start by the Government counterparts as it was clearly meeting the key
Government agenda at the time. The Department of Mines was a partner from the conception
stage, and continued to play this role throughout project implementation. Terms of reference for
each project component were drafted by the recipient branches within the Department of Mining
and the Internal Revenue Commission. This facilitated understanding and buy-in from the
majority of DoM and IRC staff. The success of the "Women in Mining" work also reflected a
highly participatory approach with civil society in general and women in the mining
communities in particular.




                                                  4

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Overall Implementation Implementation of the project went well, despite being undertaken
during an extended period when the overall Bank-Government relationship was strained by
difficulties in the forestry sector. The project was not restructured, the Mid Term Review was
satisfactory and the project was never at risk. There were some difficulties related to the
signature of the project audits, after all the work was completed, just as the project was closing,
due to changes in the leadership of the DoM, but which were eventually solved. The Project
Coordination and Implementation Unit managed the project very well and had excellent working
relationships not only with DoM staff but also IRC staff. The IRC managed all the substantive
aspects of the IRC component with fiduciary aspects (procurement and financial management)
being undertaken by the PCIU. During project implementation, support for artisanal and small-
scale mining (ASM), which provides an important livelihood for an estimated 50,000 -100,000
rural Papua New Guinean miners and their families was arranged through a Japanese Social
Development Fund (JSDF) Grant which was closely linked to and given fiduciary support by the
project PCIU.

Exchange Rate Impacts. The overall project budget was denominated in US Dollars and the
funds came to the project from the World Bank in US Dollar equivalents.                  Funds were
progressively committed by way of contracts and some of these contracts are denominated in
currencies other than US$, in particular the Australian Dollar.               The Australian Dollar
strengthened from a low of 0.4700 US dollars in mid 2001 to a peak of 0.8400 in 2003. The rate
stabilised at around 0.7500 USD in 2005.            Contracts were signed for Australian Dollar
denominated consultancies when the exchange rate was at currency values of between 0.5200 and
0.5600. Thus, as the US dollar depreciated against the AUD, the US Dollar cost of the AUD
denominated contracts substantially increased. This exchange rate change resulted in the project
contingencies budget being exhausted early in the project and the only option available was to
either cancel one or more project components or reduce the scope of existing contracts. This
issue was discussed with the Task Manager in the Bank, the Bank's Procurement Specialist and
the Steering committee during the mid-term review, and as a result the Geological Stratigraphic
Lexicon project was initially deferred and later cancelled. The IRC project scope was also
reduced in scope and the Legal and Policy Services Contract scaled down by removal of the
Offshore Mining Component. This was done in order to ensure that the project activities stayed
within the US$ budget ceiling and that the project did not find itself in a position of having
contractual financial commitments it could not meet. The fall in the value of the US Dollar had a
greater impact on project implementation than any other single factor and was the most difficult
to predict and manage, being outside of the control of the PCIU.

Government Counterpart Funding The original approval of the project by NEC committed the
GoPNG to providing US$1.5 million equivalent in counterpart funding. During the project not all
Government counterpart funds were provided as agreed. As at project completion the GoPNG
had provided only US$1.2 million.           This constrained project activities at times, because
counterpart funds were required to pay all taxes and GST, and in addition there were defined
counterpart funding requirements at certain percentages under the loan agreement for certain loan
categories.

Staffing Shortages Throughout the project the Department of Mining suffered from a lack of
staff to effectively contribute to and benefit from all of the project interventions. The Department
had an effective freeze on recruitment imposed on it by the Department of Personnel management


                                                  5

during the duration of the project. During that time 18 senior technical staff left and two died.
Departures included one divisional head and four branch or section heads. As at the end of the
project approximately 80 staff were employed by the Department out of an establishment of 124.
Of the 44 vacant positions 39 were for technical and senior coordination staff. The number of
technical as opposed to clerical and support staff fell to just 40 which includes the Geological
Survey and Observatories. As at the end of the project Mining Division had only 18 professional
staff to cover all functions of the Department. This situation left many areas of the Department
critically short staffed. This placed high demands on the remaining staff and limited their time
for input into consulting activities or on-the-job training. Staff left the department either to take
up alternative employment in the private sector, or to become candidates in National Elections.
In addition, a number expatriate officers departed and were not replaced by either other
expatriates or new national staff. Even the two staff who died were not replaced due to a
recruitment freeze applied by DPM and Treasury. As each staff member left, the technical
capacity of the Department steadily became eroded and many functions were supported in
substantial measure by external consultants provided under the project. This has meant a serious
drain on capacity for the Department. The meager budget allocations also make many of the
interventions unsustainable, including the existing computer/email/internet system. These
developments have highlighted the necessity for the early establishment of the Mineral Resources
Authority to assure any measure of sustainability for the project initiatives.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E system was prepared jointly with the government during the design period of the
project and included reporting templates and key indicators. Project monitoring reports were
received from the PCIU in a timely manner and provided monitoring information regarding (i)
progress on each component; (ii) progress under each major service contract; and (iii) project
outputs and outcomes. In addition to the mid term review, an annual review was held by the
Bank supervision team with senior DoM staff and the Minister of Mines who followed the project
closely.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

With regard to the safeguards requirements, no issues were identified in connection with the TA.
Moreover, the activities under Component D (Sustainable Development) of the project, helped at
improving social and environmental performance of companies.

Regarding the fiduciary requirements, the project was fully in compliance throughout the project
life.

Financial Management Aspects: The Financial Management System (FMS) in place was one of
the best used by a Client country, with accurate and representative Financial Monitoring Reports
being submitted quarterly by the PCIU. Annual project financial audits were unqualified.

Procurement Aspects: There were no problems associated with the procurement activities under
the project. All contracts were procured in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.

Disbursement Aspects: Disbursements under the project commenced slowly, due to late arrival of
the Procurement Specialist in the PCIU. Once major procurements got on the way, disbursements




                                                 6

trended satisfactorily against the original planned amounts, but delayed by some six months. By
the end of the project life, the entire proceeds of the loan were disbursed.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Sustaining the reform and capacity building achieved under the project is a key challenge since
for the past several years the Department of Mines has had insufficient budgets and staff to meet
its statutory and administrative obligations and functions. The project has provided some relief
but this was only good for the life of the project. However, the need to set DoM on a sustainable
footing was recognized during project preparation and the project included an assessment of the
institutional structure of the sector which, after careful study of the options available,
recommended that a new Statutory Authority ­ the Mineral Resource Authority (MRA) ­ be
established to administer the sector. The benefit of this is that the MRA can raise its own funding
from sector licensing fees etc and would not be subject to funding shortages or to arbitrary
staffing restrictions imposed by the Department of Personnel Management. The recommendation
also took account of the risks involved and the history of mixed success with Statutory
Authorities in PNG and included specific measures to mitigate against potential governance risks
by defining a structure with (i) the MRA Board being either ex officio State Secretaries or
selected by independent parties (such as the Chamber of Mines and Petroleum and the PNG
Institute of Directors) to minimize the risk that the Board could be controlled by political
appointees; and (ii) a clear separation between the Board and the MRA management and with the
Board, not the political leaders, selecting and appointing the MRA Chief Executive Officer and
senior managers. The MRA was formally established in 2006 and became operational in 2007.
The sustainability of the outputs and outcomes of the project should be ensured once the MRA is
up and running and fully staffed and operational in the next 12-24 months.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project objectives were consistent with the October 21, 1999 CAS goals, which sought to
reduce poverty and improve the quality of life of the people in PNG . Specifically, the project
supported the CAS objective of "improving the Governance Framework for Sustainable
Development" by strengthening the capacity of the relevant government departments to attract,
regulate and monitor new private investment and improve the sustainability of mining activities
in PNG.

Mining remains the largest segment of the commercial economy and the largest export sector and
the project has supported better administration of the sector, improved tax collection and has
helped stimulate new exploration in the sector. Most importantly, the focus on sustainable
development and the Women in Mining work have had a significant impact on improving the
contribution of the mining sector to poverty alleviation and sustainable development in PNG by
helping to empower the poorest groups in the mining communities and by reducing the risks and
enhancing the benefits of mining for women and families in the many communities affected by
mining. Thus, the objectives, design and implementation are considered to be highly relevant to
both the current country priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy.



                                                   7

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The project has been a considerable success in most respects. The project was active and
supported the Department of Mining through what was a very difficult period in its history where
it suffered many staff shortages and lack of budget. The difficulties experienced were primarily
caused as a result of failures within the Government system to support new staff recruitment in
order to ensure that counterpart staff were available for training and development. Whilst most
project components were successfully implemented there were some which were outstanding
successes in terms of outputs and development results. In particular
    · the success of the GIS data digitization project has been outstanding in terms of the
         interest it has generated within the private sector and how it has impacted on exploration
         and licensing activities. Data products were keenly sought by both major and junior
         companies and resulted in many new license applications. The areas where the GIS work
         was completed on average received 5 times the number of new applications as the
         balance of the country.
    · The IRC component was another notable success with the IRC generating new tax
         assessments from industry which have raised additional tax assessments of K70 million
         from companies, of which K56 million has been collected, which more than offsets the
         entire cost of the whole Technical Assistance Loan.        In addition there has been a
         compliance effect where companies have voluntarily paid more tax in anticipation that
         there lodged returns will be more vigorously scrutinized.
    · The Sustainable Mining Component has led to a significant empowering of community
         women who now seeks a role to engage with mining companies to improve the benefits
         and reduce and mitigate the risk of mining activities for them. The support from the
         project has led to the development of a of a Five Years 2007-2011Action Plan for
         Women from Mining Areas which is being submitted to the NEC for endorsement as a
         National Plan

More details are as follows:

(i)      Outcomes associated with improved DoM and IRC capabilities to administer and
regulate the sector:

a) There has been an increase in new exploration license applications from 5 in 2002 to 15 in
    2003, 49 in 2004 and 26 in 2005 and a substantial increase in exploration expenditures from a
    low of US$8.0 million in 2002 to US$29 million in 2005. This substantial new interest in
    PNG exploration has been encouraged by most importantly (i) the improved regulatory
    framework and revisions to the mining sector fiscal regime (under Component A); (ii) the
    improved and new data availability from the GIS and geophysics sub-components
    (Component E); and (iii) the improved tenements management system (Component C), as
    well as by increases in commodity prices. During the project life, three new mining
    developments were approved, with a combined capital value of US$ 1.2 billion, following a
    period of more than five years when no new investments took place.
b) New license applications within the GIS area covered by the project are 5 times as great as
    the rest of the country. The GIS coverage was provided by the data digitization sub-
    component of Component E.
c) Improvements in mine safety are expected to result from an increase in technical and safety
    audits and the appointment of two new mines inspectors (under Components B). Further



                                                  8

    improvements are expected following the enactment and implementation of a new Mining
    Safety Act (under Components A).
d) Tax collections have increased substantially since project inception, not only as a result of
    increased profitability because of high commodity prices but also as a result of improvements
    in compliance by mining companies. Component F of the project has directly resulted in
    over 70 million kina in extra tax assessments as a result of the first two pilot audits by the
    IRC and as a result of the audits some other companies have also, on a voluntary basis,
    resubmitted tax returns with higher payments than previously estimated in recognition of the
    increased capacity to monitor compliance by the IRC.




(ii)    Outcomes associated with improving the environmental and social sustainability of
mining

a) Communities have benefited from an increase in community development-related support
    activities at mining project sites provided not only by government but also by mining
    companies. These activities include
        (i)        improved levels of stakeholder consultation introduced as part of the
                   government's draft "Sustainable Mining Development" policy
        (ii)       training and skills transfer to community members,
        (iii)      increased availability and use of micro credits and start-up of new businesses,
        (iv)       improved regional and community development planning and
        (v)        improved mine closure planning.


b) A second and perhaps even more important outcome of the project, which initially was not
    envisaged, is related to the empowerment of vulnerable groups, in particular community
    women from the mining areas who have now been given a seat at the table in the project
    decision making process. There are several important outcomes of this including:
        (i)        the appointment of a Women's Officer by each of the main mining companies
                   to be responsible for women's issues both within the company and within the
                   communities impacted by the mining operation;
        (ii)       increased engagement of women and women's groups with the mining
                   companies to improve the impact of mining on vulnerable groups such as
                   women and families;
        (iii)      in 2006 the preparation of a Five Years 2007-2011Action Plan for Women
                   from Mining Areas, which has been printed by the Government Printing
                   Office and has been submitted by DoM for Cabinet approval. The Action
                   Plan, which was prepared with inputs from the Women's Associations in each
                   mining community, is a very good example not only of grass roots activity but
                   also cooperation between different government departments and consultation
                   with affected groups in a bottom-up approach.
        (iv)       The latest Memorandum of Associations (MoAs) at the Kainantu and Morobe
                   Gold projects contain an improved structure for benefits management and
                   ensure better integration of landowner concerns within the MoAs as a result of
                   the Sustainable Mining Development Policy (Component D).
        (v)        The Kainantu and Morobe MoAs also include specific provisions requiring
                   the inclusion of women in the project approval process and requiring that a




                                                  9

                    portion of the funds being paid to communities be made available for
                    women's activities and priorities.

All these outcomes above that are related to communities and community women and women's
groups were supported by the Sustainable Mining Development component (Component D). In
addition, the project provided the basis for a small scale mining project which was developed and
funded by a Japanese Social Development Fund grant as a pilot project. Given the demographics
of the country between 250,000 and 500,000 rural Papua New Guineans are direct beneficiaries
of revenues from small scale mining. The JSDF pilot project was focused on capacity building
and training for the small scale mining community in the Wau region and establishment of a
demonstration center for clean water. The project financed the preparation of various good
practice handbooks, including one on health and safety, usage of mercury, environmental issues.
(The JSDF project is expected to reach completion in the third quarter of 2007.)

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Not Applicable

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Project has met its original objectives with full disbursement of the Loan.

Project outcome is rated as "satisfactory", as it successfully achieved its relevant objectives and
its approach to mining sector reform:

    capacity building, resulting in: (i) increasing the capacity of IRC to undertake tax audits of
    mining companies; (ii) improved capacity of project coordination branch to negotiate and
    monitor the performance of the Mining Project Agreement; and (iii) increase capacity of mine
    inspectors to conduct occupational health and safety audits
    increased mineral exploration and development expenditure resulting from geogical data
    capture and dissemination;
    increased engagement with affected communities.

The "Women in Mining" activities also built a very strong constituency of support for the Bank
among women's groups in PNG. The very positive relationship of the Bank team with their
counterparts and the Minister himself made a positive contribution to the Bank-Government
relationship during an extended period when the overall Bank-Government relationship was
strained by difficulties in the forestry sector.

As a sign of the positive results achieved by the Project, the PNG counterparts in the DoM and
the IRC, with the support of the Department of National Planning, expressed their desire to have a
follow-up project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


                                                 10

During implementation of the Project activities it was recognized that women were being
discriminated against in the development process in many mining impacted communities. This
led to the adoption of the "Women in Mining" activities described previously which have directly
impacted many of the poorest and most vulnerable women and their families in mining impacted
communities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project has made an important contribution to the institutional development of mining sector
institutions in PNG. Namely, an autonomous Mineral Resources Authority (MRA) was set up
with the assistance from the project. The creation of the MRA ensures the sustainability of the
institutional strengthening provided to DoM and the project outcomes. The DoM supervision
skills have improved through intensive training programs financed with the assistance from the
project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project helped sustain the DoM through what would otherwise have been an extremely
difficult period for the Department due to declining recurrent budgets and staff departures.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
The conferences and subsequent workshops with representatives of women's groups
demonstrated very strong appreciation of the project for providing women a voice and
empowering them to have greater influence on mining activities that have a profound effect on
their lives, their families and their communities.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The establishment of the MRA which will not be subject to the same budget and staff limitations
as the Department of Mining, and where the Chief Executive Officer will be appointed by an
independent Board rather than a political process should help ensure sustainability of many of the
achievements under the project. The MRA will be funded by a levy on production, set at the level
of 0.25% of the value of mineral production, remitted monthly by each mineral producer directly
to the Authority. At this level of support, the MRA will have an annual budget at least twice that
of the former DoM and will be able to attract and retain quality personnel.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory




                                                 11

The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was satisfactory. It was consistent
with the Government's development strategy and the Bank's assistance strategy for PNG. The
Bank was proactive in initiating the dialogue with the Government for the sector reform and
capacity building. The Bank had a good skill mix, and had a good working relationship with the
Borrower. The project preparation was also well organized, systematic, and satisfactory. During
the project appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits and they were highlighted
in the project documentation and well mitigated in practice.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Over the five
years of project implementation, there were 12 supervision missions, about 2.4 missions per year.
The Bank's supervision teams worked closely with the Government, its the implementing
agencies, mining companies and civil society groups. The Bank team's working relationship with
all of its counterparts was very cordial and productive. Aide-memoires were regularly prepared
and left in draft in the field and were finalized and transmitted in a timely manner. The Bank team
also provided comments on the studies conducted under the project. The Project Status Reports
(PSRs), later Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance of the
project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation.
Throughout the implementation of the project, consultation meetings were organized with civil
society and local community groups and the bank team built a highly constructive relationship
and trust with women's groups at the different mining sites.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, Bank performance during project preparation, appraisal and implementation is rated as
"satisfactory."

Disbursement was satisfactory and there were no undue delays.

The project was able to achieve 100% disbursement rate during its lifetime.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Borrower performance in preparation is assessed as "satisfactory." The Government, at the
request of the World Bank team, identified capable staff to assist with project preparation and to
provide local assistance and the required resources. The Department of Mining was a capable and
a committed partner, despite the constrains on recruitment imposed by other government agencies,
limiting project effectiveness in some areas. The DoM assisted in the identification of strategic
reforms objectives for mining sector reform and institutional strengthening.              Borrower
performance during implementation is also considered satisfactory. There were no significant




                                                  12

delays in project implementation, counterpart financing, disbursements or problems with financial
management.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

    Implementing
      Agencies                                          Performance

Department of         The DoM's implementation performance is assessed as fully satisfactory.

Mining;               The DoM actively engaged with the World Bank on the reform process,
                      and demonstrated its commitment to project objectives by complying with
                      all covenants. Counterpart financing was for most of part timely and
                      satisfactory.
Internal Revenue
Commission;           The IRC component (Component F) was implemented by the IRC whose
                      performance was also fully satisfactory.

                      The Project Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU) was able to
                      carry out all of the planned activities for the project in a timely manner.

The Project           There were no delays, and the PCIU had consistent and reliable leadership,

Coordination and      and a positive relationship with the task team and the Government. In

Implementation Unit   addition, the PCIU disbursed about 100% of the funds allocated for project
                      activities, and followed procurement and financial management procedures
                      in line with the World Bank guidelines. The PCIU also managed to adjust
                      its operations and activities at the times of USD exchange rate fluctuations
                      to maximize the benefits to PNG from the project.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Borrower performance is based on the Government performance and the
implementing agencies performance, as mentioned above in (a) and (b).

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Development Outcomes:

a) Engaging with Women's groups can help achieve improved development outcomes in a
    sector such as mining.         Technical assistance operations do not always take note of
    stakeholder concerns. The strong emphasis on social issues and stakeholder participation in
    the Sustainable Development component provided the window through which the Women in
    Mining work emerged. Without engaging with and listening to the views of women and
    women's groups the Women in Mining work would not have taken place. The Women in
    Mining activities demonstrates that engaging with women's groups can help improve
    development outcomes.
b) Technical Assistance and Capacity Building are a multi-year activity that may not be
    completed and all the available development outcomes achieved within the life of a
    single project. While much has been accomplished under the project, there still remains a



                                                 13

   substantial agenda of work to be completed, especially in terms of the start up of the newly
   established MRA, completion of the full geological information system, scaling up initial
   successes e.g. the IRC tax audit work, women in mining work, and addressing new issues e.g.
   artisanal and small-scale mining.

Project Design

c) Technical Assistance projects can have significant outputs and outcomes if well
   designed. Technical assistance and capacity building operations have a mixed track record.
   The success of this project reflects that, despite having several different components, each
   was very carefully and tightly designed with clear outputs and outcomes in mind.
d) But technical assistance projects also need to be realistic and not too ambitious in scope.
   The project scope, in particular, for the legal and policy consultancy was too ambitious given
   the time it takes to engage all stakeholders in consultation meetings to review the proposed
   policies, laws and regulations. The overall project timeframe of five years is short when
   dealing with both the procurement timetable of 9-18 months and then trying to achieve major
   development initiatives over the remaining life of the project.
e) The project provides a good example of the importance to approach sector reform in an
   integrated, instead of a piecemeal, way. By having a broad range of different components
   which included policy work (new mining legislation and mineral fiscal regime), sector
   promotion (geological mapping) and environmental and social mitigation and benefit sharing
   (the sustainable development work) the project was able to not only improve the investment
   environment and help revive exploration but also help translate into mining activity into
   better development outcomes.

Project Implementation

f) Commitment and buy-in from an early stage by sectoral counterparts is essential for
   regulatory/legal/institutional reform and subsequent sustainability. Ownership of the
   project by the Minister and senior DoM and IRC staff from the very start facilitated the
   reform process and expedited regulatory changes necessary for legislative changes. This also
   contributed to the project taking place so well even though the overall Bank-country
   relationship was deteriorating.
g) But good projects can also be highly susceptible to changes in oversight authority. As
   noted earlier, signing of the final audit reports during project completion was delayed because
   of the changes in leadership of D0M. The project would have been in jeopardy had this
   appointment taken place say two years earlier when the individual concerned would have
   been in a position to impede the implementation of project activities.
h) Sustainability of Project Components requires a Champion. Each and every project
   component requires a champion to guide the consultants towards completion of the
   component and to take responsibility for the outputs and maintenance of the achieved
   components.      This is particularly important when physical assets are created such as
   laboratories or computer facilities. Each champion also needs an understudy to take over the
   function in the event that the champion is unable to continue
i) There needs to be more concerted effort on the part of all Government Agencies
   responsible for project implementation to ensure that staffing is adequate to meet the
   objectives of the project. The unavailability of staff due to Department of Personnel
   Management restrictions preventing any hiring by Department of Mining has reduced the
   effectiveness of the overall project by limiting the opportunities for technology transfer and
   training of national staff.



                                                 14

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
In the comments received from the Government (see Annex 7), the Secretary for Mining
identified the need for additional funding and support to complete a number of initiatives
developed under the project. The World Bank has agreed to fund a follow-on project, upon a
request made by the Minister for Mining. The new Mining Sector TA2 project is in the initial
stages of preparation.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Positive comments have been received from the Wau Ecology Institute, the implementing
Agency of the JSDF Grant on Small Scale Mining (see Annex 8) .




                                                15

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

  (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                         ComponentsAppraisalEstimate Actual/Latest         Percentage of
                                       (USD M)        Estimate (USD M)      Appraisal
Policy and regulatory institutional
strengthening                                1.60               1.80         112.50

Development. of department
capacity to monitor and execute
technical audits of exploration and          1.00               0.50          50.00

mining activities
Strengthening of departmental
mineral tenements management                 0.80               0.70          87.50

Development of project
coordination and environmental
assessment capacity for sustainable          1.10               1.40         127.27

development in mining project areas
Institutional strengthening of the
geological survey & developmental            4.30               3.60          83.72
of geological information system
Institutional strengthening and
capacity building for IRC                    1.20               1.00          83.33

Project coordination and
implementation unit                          1.20               1.80         150.00

Audit                                        0.10               0.10         100.00
                Total Baseline Cost         11.30              10.90
              Physical Contingencies         0.00
                  Price Contingencies        0.00
                 Total Project Costs        11.30
                   Front-end fee PPF         0.00               0.00          0.00
                  Front-end fee IBRD         0.10               0.10          0.10
        Total Financing Required            11.40              11.00          96.50



  (b) Financing
                                              Appraisal
        Source of Funds            Type of                   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                 CofinancingEstimate (USD
                                                 M)       Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

    Borrower                                        1.40               1.00      71.40
    International Bank for
  Reconstruction and                                10.00             10.00     100.00
  Development
    Local Govts. (Prov.,
  District, City) of Borrowing
  Country




                                              16

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Project Component A - US$1.80 million (including contingencies)

Policy and Regulatory Institutional Strengthening

The following outputs were achieved under this component: :

    (i)    a study of the future organization of DoM and a review of Statutory Authorities and a
           corporatisation sand staffing plan for the MRA. (completed 2002)
    (ii)   reviews of the Mining Act and Mining Safety Act were completed with external
           review; amendments of the existing Mining Act 1992 to reduce ambiguity and
           improve its functioning were submitted by the consultants for completion by DoM
           and a new draft mining occupational health and safety legislation was prepared in
           2006). The offshore mining component of the project was cancelled due to budget
           constraints and the draft of the Mining Act and Mining Safety Act did not reach the
           NEC for approval or Parliament for enactment prior to project completion due to
           staff constraints.;
    (iii)  revision of the Standard Mining Development Contract, with a view to incorporating
           all of the new policy initiatives listed above and to see that mine closure strategies are
           outlined and regional development aspects considered (incomplete due to budget
           constraints);
    (iv)   a prospectivity review was completed and 1500 copies of new volume "Geology and
           Mineral Potential of Papua New Guinea" printed; CD version including an
           interactive Mineral Occurrences Map was also published in 4th quarter 2005;
    (v)    a mine closure and rehabilitation policy paper to ensure an orderly and acceptable
           mine closure was completed and circulated; draft legislation was prepared and public
           discussions carried out (completed 2005);
    (vi)   a Training Needs Analysis and Training Plan Training was prepared and conference
           and workshop activities provided which focused on promotional activities and
           mineral policy and taxation, and project negotiating skills (completed 2005);
    (vii)  the DoM Intranet and Internet Web site were completed in 2nd quarter 2003 and a
           Department wide network hardware elements was also completed in 2004; and
    (viii) investment promotion materials including Mineral Policy Handbook and , as noted
           above , the Strategic Geological Potential of Papua New Guinea and the web site for
           ready access by potential investors (completed 2005).

Project Component B - US$0.5 million (including contingencies)

Development of Departmental Capacity to Monitor and Execute Technical Audits of
Exploration and Mining Activities

This Project component was implemented through workshops and on-the-job training. The
following outputs were achieved under this component: :

    (i)    efficient procedures for monitoring and auditing of company safety practices
           including appropriate monitoring and reporting formats were developed
    (ii)   safety audit strategies were prepared and mines inspection staff trained in the
           identification of key issues for audit inspection



                                                 17

   (iii)   technical and expenditure reporting for exploration tenements was improved,
   (iv)    reserves and resource reporting and the reporting of production, exports, commodity
           prices and royalties on production tenements was improved
   (v)     project safety audits and reviews were undertaken and the backlog of investigations
           of serious accidents and incidents was reduce
   (vi)    on the job training activities and workshops included Feasibility Studies, Open pit
           and Underground Mining Strategies, metallurgical processes and mining safety
           completed.
   (vii)   guidelines for tailings dam management were completed.
   (viii)  review of Hidden Valley Feasibility Study was carried out including field review of
           tailings dam facility.
   (ix)    advice on Mining Safety Regulations was provided.
   (x)     Elements relating to individual project reviews were not completed due to
           resignation and departure of DoM staff which could not be replaced..

Project Component C - US$ 0.70 million (including contingencies)

Strengthening of Departmental Mineral Tenements Management

The DoM mineral tenements management system (Mining Cadastre) was upgraded to a
computerized management system. under this component: : This included:

   (i)     95% of field surveys were completed, but the project experienced some delays due to
           ongoing landowner disputes and Law and Order problems in Morobe Province which
           led to 5% being abandoned due to landowner problems and refusal of entry. All
           competed plans were received in hard copy and digitally.
   (ii)    plans are examined for compliance with GoPNG Lands and Surveys requirements
           and once approved by the Lands Department were registered without further delay.
   (iii)   development of a computerized mineral tenements management database and
           bibliographic database, with sufficient security features to ensure data integrity, and
           which incorporated all aspects of tenement administration as required under the
           Mining Act 1992; this was supported by training took place in last quarter 2005
           (completed 2006).
   (iv)    integration of the tenements database and bibliographic database into the
           departmental GIS
   (v)     training of Mining Wardens to assist in strengthening their ability to respond to
           mineral tenements issues including system and land compensation claims and judicial
           inquiries; first training occurred in January 2004 on roles and functions of Mining
           Wardens and the processes involved in collecting evidence for compensation claims.
           Second course completed at an advanced level in September 2005.

Project Component D - US$1.40 million (including contingencies)

Development of Project Coordination and Environmental Assessment Capacity for Sustainable
Development in Mining Project Areas

The following outputs were achieved under this component: :

   (i)     A training needs analysis was carried out and completed, which was followed by
           training and skills development of coordinators in most of the above fields as



                                               18

              appropriate to the needs of each staff member, although some elements were not
              implemented as recommended, mainly due to manpower shortages
     (ii)     Retreats, seminars, workshops and two international conferences were organized to
              address how mining development can better contribute to poverty alleviation and
              rural development in PNG;
     (iii)    A review of sustainable development initiatives in the mining sector, which provided
              the basis for a Draft Green Paper on Sustainable mining development prepared.
              Comments received and draft White paper circulated for comments.
     (iv)     Studies were undertaken to see the extent to which compensation benefits reached the
              neediest members of the community and to see whether all segments of the
              community are adequately represented in consultation and negotiations with project
              developers and operators.
     (v)      Support for two international conferences and one national conference focused on the
              development issues facing women in communities impacted by extractive industries.
              These conferences resulted in the preparation of a five year action plan for the
              development of women in mining communities which was prepared by a multi-
              stakeholder group of women including the several Government Departments, private
              sector mining companies, local community representatives and local level
              government representatives.
     (vi)     Regional development plans for two mining areas were developed in a fully
              participatory manner involving local communities and provincial government
              officials
     (vii)    training and skills development was provided for project coordinators, resource
              scientists and liaison officers in basic social and economic knowledge of exploration
              and mining projects, environmental impacts, MoA negotiation and mediation, land
              management, communication, business management, accounting and financial skills,
              and a knowledge of development economics; training activities included workshops
              for coordinators, as well as Women's development and training activities
     (viii)   in total 12 conferences, seminars and workshops were either partially or fully
              supported by the project under this component

Project Component E - US$3.60 million (including contingencies)

Institutional Strengthening of the Geological Survey and Development of Geological
Information System (GIS) Capabilities

This component provided support to strengthen the capacity of the PNG Geological Survey to
manage and benefit from newly available data sources (remote sensing and Geophysical data
interpretation and archiving), digital mapping capability and to establish a Geological Information
System (GIS). Specific outputs included:

(i) Institutional Strengthening of the Geological Survey

(a) Remote Sensing

Specific outputs included:

     (i)      remote sensing facilities development and imagery acquisition completed.
     (ii)     the acquisition of digital and analogue remote sensing data and images;




                                                   19

    (iii)    the establishment with associated training of an appropriate software suite and
             computer facilities to integrate remote sensing techniques into the mapping and
             interpretation of the geology of PNG.
    (iv)     development of a remote sensing database and associated map and image
             interpretation training
    (v)      training in field validation and geological mapping based on remote sensing imagery
    (vi)     map production and GIS component completed.
    (vii)    the structural reinterpretation of 50% of the geology of Papua New Guinea;

The Remote Sensing Laboratory staff member resigned on completion of the project leaving the
facility without a champion to manage and maintain the facilities created by the project.

(b) Geophysical data interpretation

Specific outputs included:

    (i)      development of an integrated geophysical data set using available data;
    (ii)     addition of Geophysical data to intranet and internet site completed and a web based
             database query system for geophysical meta data developed; and
    (iii)    training and development of the geophysical interpretation skills of national staff.

    Dept staff continued on with activities until staff left for private sector employment.

(ii) Development of a Geological Information System (GIS)

The outputs of this sub-component included:

    (i)      development of a GIS information policy and its implementation strategy;
    (ii)     establishment of the GIS institutional information management framework, including
             the identification of human and financial resources to sustain its development and
             maintenance;
    (iii)    design and build-up of an integrated geological and mining information system,
             including the purchase of software and hardware, installation of a LAN, development
             of a Web site and connection to internet;
    (iv)     training of DoM users at different levels in information, database and network
             management as well as in processing and output of thematic maps and customized
             products;
    (v)      digitization of geochemical and geological information from mineral exploration
             reports covering 50% of the land surface of PNG amounting to 500,000 fully
             attributed discrete data points; Data capture from open file reports covered 60-65%
             of the land surface of PNG
    (vi)     digital maps at 1:250,000 scale now available to DoM clients. Map edge rectification
             remains to be completed
    (vii)    training activities on geological mapping and Mapinfo GIS software were completed
             and field mapping training in geology, geophysical methods and remote sensing
             ground truthing carried out; masters degree programs were supported for three staff.




                                                  20

Development of PNG Lithostratigraphic Lexicon and completion of geological map rectification
program component cancelled due to insufficient budget caused by weakness of US Dollar.

Project Component F - US$1.00 million (including contingencies)

Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building for IRC

This component resulted in over 56 million kina of additional assessments and collections. Other
outputs included:

    (i)     completion of two major mining project pilot audits including on the job training
    (ii)    assessment of the results of the two audits and preparation of training draft guidelines
            for future audits;
    (iii)   training completed on first audit now being put into practice by further audits.
    (iv)    Successful training activities and network building with Australian Tax Office in
            Australia.
    (v)     Meetings sponsored with Canadian Authorities over tax treatment of rehabilitation
            and closure costs

Project Component G - US$1.8 million (including contingencies)

Project Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU)

Outputs included:

    (i)     monitoring, supervising, and technical and administrative management control of the
            Project;
    (ii)    completion of project procurement, including all contracting works and purchases,
            and the hiring of consultants,
    (iii)   management of the Project's financial accounts
    (iv)    preparation and submission to the Bank of quarterly reports dealing with Project
            implementation, and the yearly audits of the Project.

Project Component H - US$0.10 million (including contingencies)

Project Financial Audits

Annual audits of the project were completed.

MEETING THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES

The Development objectives as initially stated are reviewed against achievements as follows:

· review and develop mineral policy and regulations; (Achieved, awaiting passage of new laws
    and regulations)
· improve the mining development contract; (Not Achieved)
· strengthen the interface between public and private mining sectors, NGOs, and local
    communities; (Achieved, community conferences drew together many stakeholders and
    improved communications)



                                                21

· review the organizational structure of DoM; (Achieved with passing on new MRA Act and
    corporatisation plan)
· conduct technical and safety field audits of exploration and mining projects; (Partly Achieved,
    shortage of counterpart manpower hindered completion of work)
· improve environmental compliance and sustainable development benefits from mining;
    (Achieved, especially with respect to impact of mining on women)
· address the issue of mine closure and its impact on local communities and the broader macro
    economy; (Partly Achieved, mine closure policy mostly developed, but required legislative
    amendments to give effect)
· improve mine safety and investigate accidents; (Partly Achieved, improved audit skills, but
    manpower and resources shortage hinders full capacity of the inspectors)
· improve the availability of geological data for potential mineral investors; (Mostly Achieved,
    additional information available but much remains to be done. Increased availability has
    contributed substantially to increased exploration activity.)
· conduct tax audits of mining and petroleum companies; (Partly Achieved, many companies
    remain to be audited)
· establish effective inter-relationships between different government agencies regarding tax
    collection, environment management, and so forth. (Partly Achieved, confidentiality clauses
    in legislation hinder cooperation).

If successfully implemented, the project will assist the Government of PNG to:

· attract more high risk exploration and mining development capital expenditures from
    international and domestic private investors; (Achieved, Exploration has dramatically
    increased from 2003 to 2006 as a result of improved fiscal term, increased availability of
    geological data and improved commodity prices.)
· improve the benefits to the nation especially through increased employment and skills
    transfers especially to rural areas; (Partly Achieved, increased attention on community
    development and women's development by mining companies and on small scale mining
    benefits to rural communities)
· improve environmental and social performance of mining operations; (Achieved, increased
    community focus from the industry and increased environmental awareness and consultation
    amongst stakeholders)
· achieve safer exploration and mining operations; (Achieved, new safety audit skills of staff
    have improved safety compliance at sites)
· increase tax collections at a time when revenue collection is a critical country priority.
    (Achieved, new audits raised significant additional revenue and achieved compliance effect
    improvements in tax assessments)

MEETING THE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS


The following is an assessment of the Key performance indicators against which the success of
the project could be measured.

1)      Strengthen present mineral policy to maintain and increase private investment and
exports:

· increased annual investments in exploration and in new mining projects relative to 1999
    level; (Exploration license applications and exploration expenditure has quadrupled from a



                                                22

   low of US$10 million in 1999 to over 40 million in 2006. During the project life, three new
   mining developments were approved, with a combined capital value of US$ 1.2 billion,
   following a period of more than five years when no new investments took place.)
· increased annual mineral exports relative to 1999 level; (annual exports of mineral products
   has increased mainly due to increases in commodity prices, however one new mine reached
   production during the project life and with significant support from the TA project, and four
   new mines were under construction in 2006, which will lift production substantially in the
   coming years)
· number of mineral spin-off businesses; (local business development has increased as a
   result of new arrangements in new MoAs)
· enactment of legislation on offshore mining, mining safety, and revision of the Mining Act
   1992 and establishment of the Mineral Resources Authority; (Legislation prepared and
   awaiting enactment)
· preparation of a revised standard mining contract; (Not yet done)
· completion of eight seminars or workshops on environmental, engineering, social and
   development issues associated with mining operations (More than 12 conferences,
   workshops and seminars supported by the Project were held covering a range of
   development issues).

2)     Increase capacity of DoM/IRC to investigate, audit, regulate and manage the mining
industry:

· new social impact assessment guidelines for mining; (Prepared)
· new social monitoring guidelines for mining; (As above)
· number of annual DoM full technical and mine safety audits for each mining operation (five
   operations at present); (The number of audits increased from none to three with skills
   developed in national staff to undertake more in future given the resources)
· number of IRC full tax audits on mining and petroleum companies resulting in increased
   related revenue; (Two major tax audits completed. More than PGK70 million raised in
   additional tax assessments)
· environmental and social practice and compliance statistics; (Statistical collection remains
   weak, but practice continues to improve, data collection needs more focus in future)
· mine safety statistics; (Safety statistics remain good for major mines, but poor for artisanal
   miners, more effort required to collect statistics on small scale miners required)
· mineral-related taxes collected; (Significant new assessments on mining companies as a
   result of the two major tax audits. More than PGK56 million collected to date in new
   revenues)
· number of geological thematic maps issued. (Significant new digital geological and
   geochemical and geophysical maps released as well as geological data in GIS format)




                                                23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not Applicable




                                          24

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
        Names                  Title                Unit         Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
John E. Strongman      Mining Adviser        COCPO               Task Team Leader
Adriana Maria Eftimie Mining Spec.           COCPO               Geological specialist
Cristiano Costa e Silva
Nunes                  Procurement Spec.     EAPCO               Procurment Specialist

Christopher Gilbert
Sheldon                Sr Mining Spec.       COCPO               Mining Specialist

Maythinee
Sriboonruang           Program Assistant     COCPO               Administrative Assistant



b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                              No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)

Lending
                     FY99                                                          18.11
                     FY00                                     34                 149.72
                     FY01                                                           0.03
                     FY02                                                           0.00
                     FY03                                                           0.09
                     FY04                                                           0.00
                     FY05                                                           0.00
                     FY06                                                           0.00
                     FY07                                                           0.00
                                       Total:                 34                 167.95

Supervision/ICR
                     FY99                                                           0.00
                     FY00                                                           0.00
                     FY01                                     16                   62.07
                     FY02                                     16                   75.29
                     FY03                                     13                   73.17
                     FY04                                       7                  68.30
                     FY05                                     11                   86.51


                                           25

FY06              10     66.67
FY07               2     26.69
        Total:    75    458.70




            26

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not Applicable




                                      27

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not Applicable




                                        28

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    29

30

31

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                        32

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



Back to Office Reports and Aide Memoires

Proceedings of the following Conferences
       Mining and Community (1999)
       Sustainable mining development (2001)
       Women in Mining (2003)
       Women in Mining II (2005)

Five Year 2007-2011 Women in Mining Action Plan

Green Paper Draft PNG Sustainable Mining Development Policy (2004)




                                           33

