Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7018 PNG
Loan Agreement
(Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening Technical Assistance Project)
between
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 16, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7018 PNG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 2000, between THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW 
GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"DoM" means the Borrower's Department of Mining;
(b)
"Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower's fiscal year commencing January 
1 and ending December 31;
(c)
"Kina" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d)
"GIS" means geological information system;
(e)
"IRC" means the Borrower's Internal Revenue Commission;
(f)
"PCIU" means the Project Coordination and Implementation Unit, 
established within the Borrower's Department of Mining;
(g)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each interest period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in the said 
interest period;
(j)
"Maturity Fixing Date" means, for each disbursed amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for the said disbursed amount is established, such 
date being the first day of the Interest Period next following the interest period in 
which said disbursed amount is withdrawn; and
(k)
"Executing Agency Trust Account" means the account established in a 
commercial bank for the deposit of counterpart financing for the costs of goods and 
services required to carry out the Project not financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to ten million 
Dollars ($10,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain a 
special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the effective date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
Page  3
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at the rate equal to: 
(i)
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from 
the date on 
which such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the 
provisions of 
Section 3.02 of the General Conditions but not 
to include the fourth 
anniversary of such date; and 
(ii)
seventy- five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each interest period 
at the variable rate; provided, that upon a conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the conversion period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on November 1st  and May 1st in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
approved currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a variable rate to 
a fixed rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the variable rate applicable to all or 
any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the 
establishment of an interest rate cap or 
interest rate collar on the said 
variable rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A through E of the Project through 
its DoM, and Part F of the Project through its IRC, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, tax, legal, engineering, 
environmental, and mining practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall deposit into its Executing Agency Trust 
Account in Kina, not later than the last day of each calendar quarter, amounts 
sufficient to cover counterpart funding for estimated disbursements under the Project 
for the succeeding three month period.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on the said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
management reports or statements of 
Page  5
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of the said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 
31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by the said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by the said report, and (B) 
explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have appointed key PCIU staff (Project Director, 
accounting specialist and procurement specialist) with terms of reference and 
qualifications acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
 the DoM shall have adopted the Financial Management Handbook referred to 
in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance and Treasury
Page  6
P.O. Box 710
Waigani
Port Moresby
Papua New Guinea
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
TREASURER
NE 22218
(675)328 8213
Boroko
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF 
    PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By /s/ John Kaputin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Klaus Rohland
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   1,160,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
Page  7
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants' services
   7,210,000
100% 
and training
(3)
Incremental operating
     440,000
80% of expenditures
costs for DoM and IRC
incurred through
FY2002, 60% in 
FY 2003, 40% in
FY 2004 and 20%
thereafter 
 (4)
PCIU operating costs
      70,000
100% of foreign
(excluding consultants'
expenditures,
 services)
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(5)
Front-end Fee
     100,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   1,020,000
TOTAL
  10,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the terms "incremental operating costs" and "PCIU operating costs" mean 
expenditures for travel, per diem, operating costs for vehicles, including vehicle 
insurance, communications, meetings, and office materials required for Project 
implementation; 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except for expenditures not exceeding $200,000 incurred on or after 
February 3, 2000  for the Project under Categories (1) through (4).
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (i) contracts for goods costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent each; (ii) incremental operating costs and PCIU 
operating costs; (iii) training; and (iv) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of 
individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in strengthening the 
institutional capacity of its DoM and its IRC to administer, audit and regulate 
Page  8
exploration and mining projects and thereby contribute to socially and environmentally 
sustainable private mineral investment in the Borrower's mining sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Policy and Regulatory Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening the Borrower's policy and regulatory framework for the mining 
sector, through a review of existing mining policy and legislation and the development 
of new strategies and legislation as required, including provision of technical 
assistance, training of relevant staff in negotiations skills, and acquisition of 
technical literature, office equipment and vehicles.
Part B: 
Development of Departmental Capacity to Monitor and Execute Technical 
Audits of 
Exploration and Mining Activities
Strengthening the capacity of DoM to audit existing mining and exploration 
projects to determine appropriate compliance with legal, safety, contractual, and 
policy obligations, including on-the-job training of staff, establishment of efficient 
procedures for monitoring and auditing of company reports and activities, provision of 
technical, commercial and legal training courses for relevant staff, provision of 
technical assistance, and acquisition of office equipment, legal and technical 
literature, and vehicles.
Part C: 
Strengthening of DoM's Mineral Tenements Management
Strengthening of DoM's tenements management through:
1.
The development of a strategic action plan for lease conversions, execution of 
field assessments of existing leases, and cadastral boundary survey definitions for 
lease transfers and input into the departmental database for plotting and 
verification.
2.
Development of a mineral tenements management database and integration of the 
tenements database into the departmental GIS system.
3.
Training of mining wardens in basic mining and land laws, values for damages, 
investigation of claims skills and judicial inquiries skills.
4.
Provision of technical assistance and acquisition of specialized survey software 
and computer and plotting equipment.
Part D:
Development of Project Coordination and Environmental Assessment
Capacity for Sustainable Development in Mining Project Areas
Development of project coordination and environmental assessment capacity for 
sustainable development in mining project areas through: (i) the carrying out of a 
training needs analysis, (ii) training and skills development of project coordinators, 
resource scientists and liaison officers in basic social and economic knowledge of 
exploration and mining projects, environmental impacts, negotiation and mediation, 
land management, communication, business management, accounting and financial skills, 
and a knowledge of development economics; and (iii) meetings on the environmental, 
engineering, social and development issues associated with mining operations.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening of the Geological Survey and Development of 
Geological 
Information System Capabilities
1.
Institutional Strengthening of the Geological Survey
(a)
Remote Sensing
Strengthening the mapping and interpretation of the geology of Papua New Guinea 
through (i) the acquisition of digital and analogue remote sensing data and images; 
(ii) the provision of technical assistance to DoM for the establishment of software 
Page  9
suited to manipulate a remote sensing database to allow a structural reinterpretation 
of the geology of Papua New Guinea, and for the geohazard mapping for infrastructure 
and land use planning; and (iii) the training of staff in remote sensing data 
management techniques and map generation.
(b)
Geophysical Data Interpretation
Strengthening the capacity of DoM to develop an integrated geophysical data set 
using available meta data and to develop the geophysical interpretation skills of 
national staff, through provision of technical assistance and training.
(c)
National Lithostratigraphic Lexicon and Map Rectification
1.
Provision of technical assistance to DoM for: (i) the development of a national 
lithostratigraphic lexicon and database; (ii) completion of digitization of the 
1:250,000 geological map series; (iii)  production of a national standard for 
geological map legends; and (iv) resolution of the existing edge-matching problems in 
the existing geological map series. 
2.
Training of staff in the production of geological thematic maps.
3.
Development of a Geological Information System
(a)
Provision of technical assistance to DoM to: (i) develop an information 
policy and implementation strategy  and input relevant existing data; (ii) set-up the 
institutional information management framework, including the identification of human 
and financial resources to sustain its development and maintenance; and (iii) design 
and build-up an integrated geological and mining information system, including 
acquisition of software and hardware, installation of a local area network, 
development of a web site and connection to the Internet.
(b)
Provision of training to DoM users in information, database and network 
management as well as in processing and output of thematic maps and customized 
products.  
Part F:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building for the Internal 
Revenue Commission
Strengthening the IRC's capacity with reference to the mining and petroleum 
sectors to provide it with long-term auditing capacity to enhance the country's 
revenue base, through provision of technical assistance for: (i)  the determination of 
matters to be scrutinized and their effect on the revenue; (ii) the carrying out of 
pilot audits to assess their results;  (iii) carrying out full audits as directed by 
IRC; (iv) preparation of draft guidelines for future audits; (v)  on-the-job training; 
(vi) carrying out other duties of IRC as relevant to the mining and petroleum sectors; 
and (vii) the acquisition of office equipment, vehicles, and technical literature.
*        *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
 Installment Share
Page  10
    Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
November 1, 2005
1.93
May 1, 2006
2.00
November 1, 2006
2.07
May 1, 2007
2.14
November 1, 2007
2.21
May 1, 2008
2.29
November 1, 2008
2.37
May 1, 2009
2.46
November 1, 2009
2.54
May 1, 2010
2.63
November 1, 2010
2.72
May 1, 2011
2.82
November 1, 2011
2.92
May 1, 2012
3.02
November 1, 2012
3.12
May 1, 2013
3.23
November 1, 2013
3.35
May 1, 2014
3.46
November 1, 2014
3.58
May 1, 2015
3.71
November 1, 2015
3.84
May 1, 2016
3.97
November 1, 2016
4.11
May 1, 2017
4.26
November 1, 2017
4.41
May 1, 2018
4.56
November 1, 2018
4.72
May 1, 2019
4.89
November 1, 2019
5.06
May 1, 2020
5.61
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
Page  11
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $870,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $310,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (ii) the first three contracts for goods awarded 
each year in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph C.2 and C.3 
above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in paragraphs C.1 and C.2 above and estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Direct contracting
Goods and services for Part E(1)(a) up to an aggregate not to exceed US$600,000 
equivalent, with the Bank's prior consent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction to and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The shortlist of consultants for services for institutional strengthening, mineral 
tenements management, sustainable development capabilities and geological information 
Page  13
system development, under Parts A, C, D and E of the Project, and which shortlist is 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for institutional strengthening, technical audits and tax audits under 
Parts A, B, and F of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Fixed Budgets
Services for tasks that are not only simple, but are also precisely defined and 
fall under a fixed budget may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Least cost-selection
Services for tasks that are of a standard or routine nature (audits, engineering 
design of noncomplex works, and so forth) and are of a small amount, and for which 
well-established practices and standard exist, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Consultants' Qualifications
Services whose threshold costs do not exceed US$100,000, and for which the need 
for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is not justified, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
6.
Single-source selection
In very exceptional circumstances, and where the context of the overall 
interests of the Borrower and the Project, and further where the Bank's responsibility 
to ensure economy and efficiency are well considered, services of consultants may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
to 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants' services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of the said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  14
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $ 200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
 The Borrower shall select and appoint PCIU staff on a competitive basis, 
with qualifications and experience, market-related salaries and terms and conditions 
(including performance criteria and evaluation procedures) acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) 
The Head of the PCIU shall report to the Secretary DoM as Chairman of the  
DoM/IRC Steering Committee.
(c)
DoM shall prepare and adopt a procurement operations manual acceptable to 
the Bank by December 31, 2000.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, and in accordance with the following indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof:
(i)
increased annual investments in exploration and in new mining 
projects
relative to 1999 levels;
(ii)
enactment of legislation on offshore mining, mining safety, and 
revision of 
the Mining Act 1992 and establishment of the Mineral 
Resource Authority;
(iii)
completion of eight seminars or workshops on environmental, 
engineering, 
social and developmental issues associated with 
mining operations;
(iv)
carrying out of full technical and mine safety audits for each 
mining 
operation (five operations at present); and
(v)
initiating and carrying out of a program of tax audits on mining 
and petroleum 
companies resulting in increased related revenue.
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Page  15
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that DoM prepares and adopts and thereafter follows a 
Project Financial Management Handbook satisfactory to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "authorized allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the authorized allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the authorized allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the authorized allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the authorized allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para-graph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
Page  16
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to the said Section in respect 
of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the authorized allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
