Papua New Guinea: Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening Technical Assistance Project
                                                                                                     94111
                                                                                                    April 17, 2012




 Sustainable Investment in Mining:
 Benefitting Communities, Supporting Sustainable Investment in Papua
 New Guinea’s Mining Sector


Overview
The first Mining Technical Assistance Project in Papua New Guinea contributed to creating an
enabling environment for sustainable mining, with a special focus on environmental and social
aspects, and improved mining legislation and institutions. The project also worked to create
better and more meaningful relationships with communities and increase mining-related
benefits at the local level. One particularly pioneering part of the project was the Women in
Mining Initiative, which engaged and empowered women in mining-affected communities.




Challenge                                                        More Results
Since independence, the mining sector has been vital to the
local economy and economic fortunes of Papua New Guinea


                                                                 $26
(PNG). Mining has made substantial contributions to
government revenues, against a background of challenging
social issues and significant environmental impacts in some

                                                                 million
mining areas. A persistent problem was that benefits from
mining often failed to reach local communities. Where they
did, they tended to be captured by men, but the impacts of
social disruption and environmental harm fell most heavily on    new tax revenues received by
                                                                 the government from mining
women and children.                                              activities under new legislation


Approach
What made this technical assistance project so successful?
The project worked on several different levels, including
policy work to strengthen legislation; support for investment,
                                                                 6
                                                                 local action plans were
and social development activities through benefit sharing and    integrated in a National Action
community participation, particularly through the involvement    Plan for Women in Mining
                                                                 Areas, enabling women in
of women. In this way, the project was able to not only          mining-affected communities to
improve the investment environment and help revive               participate more equitably in
                                                                 mining benefits, and play a
exploration, but also translate mining activity into better      larger part in decision-making
development outcomes for communities. Establishing a
Geographical Information System (GIS) helped encourage
exploration and promote investment. New legislation
improved policy, strategy, and regulation. Training programs     MORE INFORMATION
built government capacity in tax collection, auditing and other     Mining Sector Institutional
essential functions. One of the most innovative aspects of          Strengthening Technical
the project was its support to the Women in Mining Initiative,      Assistance Project
a series of activities designed to empower women. This              Country Website
support enabled women in mining-affected communities to
                                                                    Country Overview
participate more equitably in mining benefits, and play a
larger part in decision-making.                                     Country Assistance Strategy

                                                                    Data and Statistics
Results                                                             Paper: Engendering Mines in
                                                                    Development: A Promising
       By 2006, more than Papua New Guinean Kina 56                 Approach from Papua New
                                                                    Guinea
       million (approximately US$26 million) was collected in
       new tax revenues.                                            Website: Extractive Industries
                                                                    and Gender
       Three new mining developments were approved with
       a combined value of US$1.2 billion. This activity
       followed a period of more than five years when no
       new investments took place. Applications for new exploration licenses increased by
       more than 80 percent between 2002 and 2005.

       Communities benefited from local development activities at mining sites. These included:
              improved consultations as part of the government’s new Sustainable Mining
              Development policy;

              training and skills transfer programs;

              increased availability and use of microcredit and new business startups;

              improved development planning, with fully participatory regional development
              plans drawn up for two mining areas; and

              better planning for mine closures.

       Three international conferences for the Women in Mining Initiative were organized and
       attended by hundreds of women from mining areas in the country. Six local action plans
       were integrated in a National Action Plan for Women in Mining Areas (2007-2012),
       endorsed by the government, and a Women’s Officer was appointed by each of the
       largest mining companies.

       The success of the GIS data digitization project was outstanding. The areas where the
       GIS work was completed on average received five times more applications than the rest
       of the country.

       The project supported the establishment of the autonomous Mineral Resources
       Authority (MRA) to help increase sustainability.

       A new Mining Safety Act was enacted and implemented and two new Mines Inspectors
       were appointed.

Voices

      We want to emphasize that girls go to school and get a better
   education, be good contributors to the community, the province
   and the country. I want to see mothers taking the lead, having a
   say in decision-making – just like the men do.
                   — Clara Fred, Star Mountain Women’s Association
Bank Contribution
IBRD provided US$10 million; the Government of PNG provided US$1.2 million in counterpart
funding.

Partners
The project was implemented by the (former) Department of Mining and Internal Revenue
Commission. The department provided the basis for two projects developed and funded by
Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) grants: (i) a small-scale mining project ina mining
community in the Wau region, and (ii) a capacity building and training project for women in the
mining and petroleum areas.
The Women in Mining activities built a very strong constituency of support among women’s
groups and local community groups at the various mining sites. The first two Madang
Conferences on Women and Mining were organized with the support of several different
agencies including the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP), Norwegian-
Dutch Trust Fund for Mainstreaming Gender (GENFUND), the Australian Agency for
International Development (AusAID) and several of the mining companies operating in Papua
New Guinea. Successful training activities and network building with the Australian Tax Office
were organized for PNG’s Internal Revenue Commission.

Toward the Future
A follow-on project, the Second Mining Sector Institutional Strengthening Project, was
approved in 2008. This project builds on much of the work of its predecessor: it aims to
continue improving the benefits from extractive industries to the national budget and for mining-
affected communities, and to mitigate health and safety risks. These objectives will be
achieved through improving key institutions, supporting communities to monitor the delivery of
programs and services, empowering disadvantaged groups including women and youth, and
improving accountability of the sector and management of revenues from mining.
