Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7531
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 360.4 MILLION (US$450 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
FOR AN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
May 17, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit  =  Congolese Franc (FC)
US$1 (Average 2000)  =  CF 50
US$1 (May 3, 2002)  =  320
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF                   African Development Fund
AfDB                  African Development Bank
AIDS                  Acquired immune deficiency syndrome
BIS                   Bank for International Settlements
DDR                   Demobilization, disarmament and reintegration
DSA                   Debt sustainability analysis
ERC                   Economic Recovery Credit
EERP                  Emergency Early Recovery Project
EMRRP                 Emergency Multisector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program
EU                    European Union
FY                    Fiscal year
GDP                   Gross domestic product
HIPC                  Highly indebted poor countries
HIV                   Human immunodeficiency virus
IBRD                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                   International Development Agency
IDF                   Institutional Development Fund
IMF                   International Monetary Fund
MDRP                  Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program
MONUC                 United Nations Observer Mission in Congo
PER                   Public expenditure review
PRGF                  Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (IMF)
PRSP                  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SDR                   Special Drawing Rights
SMP                   Staff Monitored Program (IMF)
TSS                   Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
Vice President            Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director          Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager            Cadman Atta Mills
Task Team Leaders         Brendan Horton, Eric R. Nelson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONOF THE PRESIDENT .......................................... 1
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ..................................... 1
I.  INTRODUCTION ................................................ 1
II.  COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ............................................... 1
A. Progress towards peace                          ..3
B. Economic Reforms                               ..4
C. Social Situation                             ..6
D. Economic Situation and Prospects                     ..7
m. EXTERNAL DEBT.                                .          .                     8
A.   Normalization of Relations, Arrears Clearance and Debt Service  .    .     8
B. The Enhanced HIPC Initiative .10
IV.   DONOR SUPPORT AND FRAMEWORK FOR WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE          ...         11
A. Donor Support                               ..11
B. IMF Assistance              ..12
C.   Framework for World Bank assistance: the Transitional Support Strategy  . . 13
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT .         .      .      .......................... 14
A.   Objectives and Design ................................                    14
B.   Justification for the Proposed Credit ................................    15
C.   Features and Content of the Program ................................      16
1.  The Interim PRSP and the Govemment's Reform Program     ..16
2.   Components of the Program Supported by the Credit        .      .       18
2.1 Improving governance, enabling the private sector and reducing corruption . 18
2.2 Public enterprise sector reform .22
2.3 Recovery of the Financial Sector .24
2.4 Natural Resource Sector.                                              25
3.   Looking Forward: The Immediate Agenda for Growth and Poverty Reduction....  30
D.   Credit Implementation, Monitoring and Disbursement Arrangements  . .30
E.   Summary of Conditionalities and Benchmarks             ..31
F. Environmental Aspects            ..32
VI. BENEFITS AND RisKs                   .         .        .32
A. Benefits               ..32
B. Risks..33
VIII. RECOMMENDATION ............................................. 34
ANNEXES ............................................                             35
1. Timetable of Key processing Events
2. Letter of Development Policy (Government)
3. Policy Matrix
4. Democratic Republic of Congo Social Indicators
5. Democratic Republic of Congo at a glance
6. Democratic Republic of Congo- Key Economic Indicators
7. Country Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Democratic Republic of Congo
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget
Amount:                  SDR 360.4 million (US$450.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:          0.50 percent on undisbursed Credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Disbursement:            The proposed credit would be released in three tranches, the first of
which would be cross-sectoral of about US$410 million; and two
floating sectoral tranches, one for US$15 million and one for US$25
million. Signing of the proposed Credit would take place once all of the
DRC's arrears to IDA and IBRD have been cleared, with release of the
first tranche taking place immediately upon effectiveness. The two
sectoral tranches could be released in either order when related triggers
have been satisfied in the forestry and mining sectors.
Net Present Value:       Not applicable
Map:                     IBRD 31546
Project ID No.:          P057293
Background and            The proposed Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) is an integral part of
Description:              the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) discussed by the Board
on July 31, 2001, to assist the Democratic Republic of Congo in its
economic and social recovery, in the context of the Governent's 2001-
2003 Interim Reform and Growth and Poverty Reduction Programs.
Proceeds of the proposed Credit would provide funds necessary to assist
the Democratic Republic of Congo with foreign exchange needs
immediately after arrears to the World Bank have been paid.
Rationale for IDA        The Bank's involvement is justified by the need to: (i) address the
involvement:             immediate post-conflict needs of the country, including stabilization,
rehabilitation and recovery; (ii) help the DRC focus on the sustainable
development and poverty reduction agenda of reforms; and (iii) provide
the development leadership needed for the reengagement of the
international community in a key country in the delicate and troubled
central Africa region. IDA provided a grant of US$50 million in July
2001 to help the DRC's interim reform program and to prepare a wide
range of reforms and programs that would underpin rehabilitation,
recovery and development in the DRC. The program supported by the
Credit would be implemented in parallel with the Emergency
Multisector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program (EMRRP),



-II-
which is aimed at an investment program rehabilitating economic and
social infrastructure. Implementation of an IMF Staff Monitored
Program, preparation of the proposed credit, the EMRRP and a number
of other donor programs have benefited from support by the IDA grant.
This operation is also part of a coordinated effort by intemational
financial institutions to help the DRC normalize its relations with the
intemational financial community. The DRC is also requesting support
of US$730 million from the EIF under the PRGF facility, of which the
first tranche will principally be used to clear arrears (US$5 10 million).
Govemment/Country         Since  January  2001, Govenmment has   demonstrated  forceful
Commitment:               commitment to macroeconomic and structural reforms. This is
illustrated by overall satisfactory implementation of the front-loaded
IMF Staff Monitored Program designed to break hyperinflation, resume
budget balance and launch a wide-ranging and deep structural reform
program. Exchange rates and all prices have been liberalized with the
exception of utility and transport prices that are regularly adjusted to
reflect production costs. A new investment code has been approved and
a mining code awaits ratification; a new forestry law that provides for
direct access of rural communities to 30 percent of forest revenues and a
new labor code are proceeding toward final form. A law creating
commercial courts has been published. Public enterprises have been
audited and many of the general managers replaced. An audit of the
civil service has been conducted and 21,652 ghost workers are being
removed from the payroll. Commitment at the highest level of the
country's leadership and the Govemment, as well as support from the
civil society has been demonstrated and reaffirmed on several
occasions. The program has been endorsed by participants in the inter-
Congolese dialogue held in Sun City, South Africa in March-April
2002.
Benefits and Risks:       The Credit would support the resolution of the IDA/IBRD debt arrears,
without which access to Bank financial support would not be restored. It
also supports policies that stabilize the economy and pave the way to
environmentally and socially sustainable growth and poverty reduction
through a number of interventions.
The primary risks-and associated mitigating measures-are (i)
renewed internal and/or regional conflict, which is reduced by the
Lusaka peace process, by UN intervention, and by a Bank-led
multinational regional demobilization and reinsertion program; (ii) the
DRC losing intemational financial support and again falling into debt
service arrears following clearance, which is mitigated by overall
program of multiyear assistance with an agreed financing plan, by the
foreign exchange freed by the Credit itself and by the renewed access of
the DRC to IDA resources only if debt service is maintained; and (iii)
insufficient institutional capacity, which is being addressed by technical
assistance and capacity-building activities being provided by the Bank,
IMF, UNDP, AfDB and others.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONOF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    This report seeks approval to extend an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) to the
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) for SDR 360.4 million (US$450 million
equivalent). The proposed credit is an integral part of the Bank's Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS) discussed by the Board on July 31, 2001, which supports the
government's far-reaching program of economic refonn in preparation for sustainable
growth and poverty reduction.
2.    Proceeds of the proposed Credit would provide funds necessary to support DRC
cash flow immediately after arrears to the World Bank have been paid. The approval of
the Credit would permit the resumption of assistance from several donors after a decade
of interruption and would also set the stage for assistance under the enhanced Initiative
for Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) that would lift the debt overhang from a
generation of Congolese. Credits made possible following arrears clearance would help
finance the economy's continued stabilization, rehabilitation and reconstruction. The
basis for the rehabilitation would be continued implementation of appropriate economic
policies, renewed inflow of foreign exchange through official development assistance,
growth in private capital inflows, lower cost of doing business and higher private
investment, a broader fiscal revenue base and more effective social sector and
development expenditures improving delivery of social services. Stabilization and
recovery will support Congolese efforts and progress toward national reconciliation and
provide income-eaming alternatives to violence for the poor. In addition to the wide
range of reforms being supported, the Credit would also address some extremely urgent
initial steps for the restructuring of the mining giant Gecamines and steps to prevent
widespread destructive exploitation of the natural resource patrimony in the lead-up to
new policy regimes that will limit such abuses in the future while attracting responsible
private investment.
II.   COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
3.    The DRC is gradually emerging from a dreadful decade of political instability and
conflict. There is a consensus within the international community that a window of
opportunity has opened in the DRC to put an end to the conflict and to put the country
back on the road to development. The return of economic growth in the DRC could have
a dramatic effect not only on the DRC's 55 million people but also on economic
prospects in the whole of central Africa. Because of its size, its central location and its
great agricultural, forestry, mineral and hydroelectric resources, the DRC could play the
role of an "economic engine" for the region and create new opportunities for poverty
reduction, including in neighboring countries.



-2-
4.     The conflict has taken a terrible toll on the DRC. About 200,000 persons-mostly
civilians-may have been killed. The destruction and decay of physical and social
infrastructure caused by the conflict has contributed to a death toll between 1.5 and
3 million since 1997. Millions have been displaced. Transport infrastructure has
effectively collapsed, so markets are no longer connected; in many parts of the country,
farmers can no longer commercialize their surplus while urban food prices are high. The
dislocation of public administration has allowed for large fiscal evasion.
5.     By 2000, Government resources had shrunk to around 5-7 percent of a greatly
reduced GDP as a result of collapse of the economy and to disruption of the internal
market by the conflict. Mining activity has declined due to lack of infrastructure
maintenance, trade in rebel-occupied territories is untaxed and trade between regions has
ceased, forestry resources-the exploitation of which are also affected by the conflict-
are taxed according to an obsolete regime which permits individuals to enrich themselves
at the expense of the community and the State, and a large part of pre-war economic
activity has reverted to the informal sector. On the expenditure side, social needs place a
heavy but unmet demand on this budget.
6.     The conflict has also taken a regional dimension, with the involvement of seven
foreign countries of which four are still present, on a territory almost as large as the
whole of Western Europe.' Continued instability in the DRC has had clear consequences
for its direct neighbors, seven of which (out of nine) have experienced war or severe civil
disturbance over the last decade. The rebel movements of Burundi, Rwanda, and Uganda
all have rear bases in the DRC. In this context, the stabilization of the DRC is key to
sustainable peace in the Great Lakes region.
Box 1- THE 1990S IN THE DRC
The DRC went through a decade of political instability and conflict in the 1990s, following
decades of corruption and mismanagement and collapse of the State under the regime of Mobutu
Sese Seko (1965 - 97). The decline was punctuated by riots and plundering by an unpaid military
(1991, 1993) that destroyed much of the productive capital. The regime was overthrown in 1997
by the forces of Laurent Kabila. Civil war broke out anew in 1998 and drew in up to seven other
nations as well as militias opposing neighboring governments.
The government (supported by Angola, Namibia, and Zimbabwe) controls most of the Western
and Southern part of the country, and portions of the Northern and Eastern regions. This
represents more than half of the territory (equivalent to more than a third of the EU) and two-
thirds of the 55-million population. Two main rebel groups, the Mouvement de Liberation du
Congo and factions comprising the Rassemblement Congolais pour la Democratie (backed
respectively by Uganda and Rwanda) control most of the Northern and Eastern provinces. Local
movements take place across this invisible line, but large-scale movements of goods and people
remained hindered.
The DRC is an example of the "contagion" of conflicts, which has been highlighted in a series of recent Bank
research.



-3-
A.     Progress towards peace
7.     Significant progress has been achieved since Joseph Kabila became President in
January 2001. Implementation in earnest of the long-stalled ceasefire, signed in Lusaka
on July 7, 1999, was begun that month and is being maintained. African leaders from the
entire continent have provided assistance in the effort at reconciliation. A UN peace
keeping force, the Mission d'Observation des Nations Unies au Congo (MONUC) has
been deployed under Security Council Resolutions 1341 and 1355, with a total of 2,408
military personnel as of October 15, 2001. MONUC has monitored adherence to the
cease-fire agreement, supervised the separation and redeployment of the armed forces
and has taken steps towards disarming and demobilizing militias and armed groups
(including foreign groups such as the Rwandan ex-FAR and Interahamwe). Incidents are
limited to the rebel-controlled Eastern regions (clashes between rebel forces and local
militias). Angola and Namibia have withdrawn their forces, Zimbabwe has allegedly
repatriated several battalions, and there has been a significant departure of Ugandan
troops. Around 2000 Rwandan militia are being demobilized in a pilot effort at Karnina.
Since February 2002 the Bank has seconded a staff member to MONUC as a liaison
officer for demobilization and reintegration activities. This progress has prompted the
Bank to design in consultation with donors and governments in the region a regional
demobilization, disarmament and reinsertion     (DDR) program, the Multi-country
Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP) for the greater Great Lakes region.
A multi-donor Trust Fund in support of the MDRP has been launched and already
received over US$180 million in donor contributions.
8.     Under the Lusaka Accord, an inter-Congolese dialogue among the Government,
rebel groups, unarmed opposition and civil society is intended to lead to "a new political
dispensation and national reconciliation". After a false start, the dialogue was
successfully opened in Sun City, South Africa, on February 25, 2002 and concluded on
April 19. An agreement reached between the Government and the rebel Mouvement pour
la liberation du Congo (MLC) was signed by more than 70 percent of the delegates.2 Key
provisions of the agreement include creation of the post of prime minister as head of
government as well as governance bodies (an assembly, a senate and a senior army
council) and ministerial appointments representing all groups. Joseph Kabila will remain
president until elections with ministries of foreign affairs, defense and interior
responsible to the President and all others responsible to the Prime Minister. A
mechanism will be established for the formation of a new national army comprising all
3
rebel groups. A working group will draft a transitional constitution, for which some
factions have already provided drafts.
2 The initial 258 signers arnong the 366 delegates included not only the Government and MLC, three quarters of the
opposition political party delegates, 28 of 33 civil society delegates, and two of the three factions (RCD-ML and
RCD-N) of the dissenting Rassemblement congolais pour la democratie; others are expected to join as the transition
govemment is formed. Although (as of May 10) the RCD-Goma continued to refuse to sign the agreement, official
posts (President of Parliament and Ministries of Defense and Justice) are reserved for it in the transition govemment.
3 The Mayi-Mayi are to be included in the army though they are not party to the Lusaka Accord.



-4-
B.    Economic Reforms
9.    The country once called Zaire was long known for economic mismanagement
with direct implications for the welfare of its people, and for the misuse of foreign aid.
Reversing this is a goal of the new Government. Since early 2001, the Government has
implemented a number of far-reaching economic reforms under an interim program the
first phase (of three overlapping phases) of which was monitored by IMF Staff (SMP) for
the period June 2001 to March 2002, and successfully completed in March 2002. The
first, stabilization, phase of the program was aimed at opening and stabilizing the
economy, removing major distortions and obstacles for private sector activity, restoring
normal and transparent budgetary processes, and granting the Central Bank full
independence. The second, recovery and rehabilitation, phase will aim to consolidate
stability and further reforms while laying the path for increased access to international
capital flows and poverty reduction. This would include introducing a pro-poor budget,
improving efficiency of service delivery and the integrity of public service, removing
government from the productive economy, and fostering broad-based growth. The
Government has agreed with the IMF on a program to be financed under a Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility covering the period April 2002 through July 2005, to be
submitted to the Fund's Board at the same time as this proposed Credit will be presented
to the Bank's Board. Following recovery, a third phase will promote pro-poor sustainable
growth.
10.   A cabinet appointed in April 2001 named respected technocrats to key economic
and social sector positions. The new Government implemented a broad range of measures
aimed at breaking hyperinflation, based on restrictive budgetary and monetary policies. It
removed restrictions on foreign exchange and floated the currency, the Congolese franc,
on May 26, 2001.4 Expenditures were restrained by managing expenditures on a cash
basis throughout the 2001 budget year, by capping the wage bill and controlling non-
salary expenditures, and by reinstating expenditure controls in the provinces. Broad
money growth is being controlled, and a new banking law as well as legislation
reaffirming the independence of the Central Bank has been approved by Parliament. As a
result, inflation has fallen from an annualized rate exceeding 680 percent during the first
five months of 2001 preceding the adoption of the interim program to 8.8 percent during
the remainder of the year.
11.   Fiscal revenues came to only 4.5 percent of GDP in 2000. The Government
program calls for revenues rising to 7.3 percent of GDP for 2002, with GDP projected to
grow by 3 percent. The Government has focused its efforts on a reform of the customs
and excise administration (also to reduce incentives to corruption) and on rationalizing
the tax and customs codes, to eliminate exemptions and deferrals and to simplify
enforcement through centralized procedures. Monthly revenues increased by 75 percent
(from a low first-quarter base) by the last quarter of 2001, so the 7.3 percent of GDP
target appears attainable although a major challenge.
4 The Congolese franc depreciated from US$ 1=FC50 to about FC350, then oscillated to 220 in July 2001 before
settling into a range of FC3 10-330. The spread between official and parallel rates has disappeared.



-5-
12.   In parallel to this effort, the Government implemented a number of structural
reforms. First, activity in key sectors was liberalized. Controls on the diamond trade were
abolished in February 2001. Petroleum prices were liberalized on May 26, 2001. Interest
rates were freed on the same day. All prices have been liberalized with the exception of
utility and transport prices that are regularly adjusted to reflect production costs.
13.   Second, steps were taken to enhance economic governance. An inter-ministerial
committee set up to enhance coordination on economic and financial policies, has been
operating satisfactorily for the last year. The Government has submitted and Parliament
has approved or is considering a series of laws that includes the recently revised Charter
of the Central Bank, the Banking Act, the Co-operative Banking Act, the Mining Code,
the Forestry Code and the Investment Code. A new Labor Code is being prepared.
14.   Third, these investment, mining and forestry code reforms break with past
practices and significantly enhance transparency, measures that will improve the
country's attraction to foreign investors. The investment code reflects international best
practice and should facilitate the involvement of foreign companies in the DRC. The
mining code, which has been approved by the President and under discussion in the
National Assembly, and forestry code are aimed at ensuring a transparent and
competitive award of concessions. A significant restructuring and possible privatization
(as appropriate) of state-owned mining companies should accompany the mining code,
while the forestry code makes provision for direct access of rural communities to 30
percent of forest revenues and provides for manageme.=t of forests by decentralized
bodies and neighboring communities, following recent best practices in forest
conservation.
15.   Fourth, the Government has prepared an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (I-PRSP) that draws on its own anti-poverty program and a participatory process
involving all branches of government, the private sector, civil society and the donor
community in parts of the country accessible to the PRSP team. This process helped the
authorities to draft and to revise a strategy that is based on the expressed concerns and
interests of the population. The poverty reduction strategy is based on restoring and
consolidating the peace process, maintaining macroeconomic stability and introducing
pro-poor growth, and working through community dynamics to develop and implement
socio-economic policies. Its financing should be facilitated by the expected reduction in
military expenditure as a result of peace process.
16.   Fifth, audits of provincial finances (a forceful public gesture of commitment to
reform) led to replacement of the Governors, Vice Governors, and senior staff in all but
one province. Among the three new senior officials in each province, at least one is a
woman.
17.   Sixth, a public enterprise reform program is being prepared, to resolve the budget
and perfornance burden imposed by state ownership of companies. The government
conducted financial audits of most public enterprises in 2001. The results of these audits
were published in the local press, and temporary administrators replaced most of the
general managers, pending the restructuring, privatization or liquidation of these



-6-
enterprises. The public enterprise reform program distinguishes between various types of
enterprises, depending on their financial health. It is likely to result in large-scale
privatizations and closure of some companies, and should be accompanied with adequate
measures to put in place a social safety net for employees declared redundant and to
transfer social assets (health centers, schools) to the relevant local authorities.
18.   Seventh, a civil service reform is also being prepared, to follow the elimination
(in progress) of "ghost workers" from the payroll. Customs and tax administrations were
audited. The IMF is providing technical assistance-including resident advisors-to
strengthen capacity in the areas of public expenditure management, revenue mobilization,
monetary policy, statistics, public sector reform, bank restructuring, and governance.
19.   Eighth, a restructuring of the banking sector is being undertaken as a first step
toward designing a comprehensive financial sector reform program. A new banking law
and cooperative banking law have been passed, which establish a sound basis for banks
and credit unions. A number of insolvent and illiquid banks have been closed and others
are being restructured under the auspices of a special bank restructuring decree. An audit
of the Central Bank has been launched. Four commercial banks have been audited, with
updates and audits of the other banks programmed. This provides a solid basis to decide
on the future of each individual financial institution.
C.    Social Situation
20.   The social situation remains alarmingly difficult. Social indicators, already low
before the war, have dropped further in recent years. The budgetary restriction required
for the Government to break hyperinflation and restore economic stability leaves scant
fiscal resources for alleviating the suffering of the people. The civil service pay scale has
fallen to about $0.80 to $8 a month (compared to about $150 a month needed to feed an
average household in Kinshasa).
21.   A recent study by the World Health Organization and UNICEF revealed that the
vast majority of the population live on the equivalent of US$0.20 per person per day, and
consume less than two thirds of the daily calories needed to maintain good health. The
FAO estimates that about a third of the population (16 million people) is starving or
malnourished. Approximately 70 percent of the population has little or no access to
health care. Eighty percent have no access to safe water. Nationwide, 2-3 percent of
pregnancies result in maternal death, while in areas impacted by conflict a spot survey
found a maternal death rate of 11 percent and a neonatal mortality rate exceeding 10
percent. HIV infection has increased from 4 percent of the population in 1997 to
somewhere around 20 percent-including 6 percent of children under 4-three years
later. Malaria (to which 500,000 deaths a year are attributable), cholera, and
trypanosomiasis are spreading. Only half the target population could be reached by a
UNICEF-supported vaccination campaign, part of the effort to eliminate polio
worldwide. Living conditions for the 2 million displaced persons and the many "oublies
sociaux" (socially forgotten ones) are particularly dreadful.



-7-
D.    Economic Situation and Prospects
22.   Despite the Government's economic reforms, and in the absence of substantial
external financial assistance, the Congolese economy continued its downward trend in
2001, albeit at a slower pace than in 2000 and with some signs of stabilization in the
second half of the year. Output in agriculture, rnining (with the exception of cobalt and
possibly of coltan mined in rebel-controlled areas) and manufacturing declined from the
already-low levels of 2000. Early indications for 2002 indicate that GDP growth may
recover to 3 percent per annum.
23.   Looking ahead, the DRC has important competitive advantages, which could
become sources of growth. Traditional exports include (i) mining, historically an
important source of employment, raw material for industry and export revenue;
(ii) export agriculture, which has been hampered by the conflict but will recover when
conditions permit; and (iii) forestry resources that exceed those of the rest of Africa
combined. In addition, the DRC has significant hydroelectric resources, with a potential
to export to neighboring countries and beyond to the Southern Africa Power Pool. Its
central location and its extensive inland waterways offer potential for trade throughout
the region. Its businessmen and women have long been considered among the most
entrepreneurial in Africa.
24.   To capitalize on this potential, the Government has defined a solid recovery
program. Good governance lies at the base of this, beginning by tackling corruption with
rule of law, and continuing with improving economic governance so that the country's
advantages contribute to pro-poor growth and entrepreneurial energies are directed to the
economic rather than the political realm. The Government's program is aimed at:
(i) rebuilding effective public institutions and policies; (ii) revitalizing economic activity;
and (iii) meeting basic and urgent needs. The Government is committed to ensuring that
recovery activities are adequately distributed throughout the entire country, including in
areas currently not under its control. Application of the new mining and forestry codes
should help deter abuses, increase revenue, assure environmental protection and increase
participation of local communities in natural resources management. A list of priority
investments during the recovery phase has been drawn up with assistance of the Bank.
Major policy reforms have already been implemented or are being prepared. A matrix of
policy actions taken and underway, including those monitored by the IMF under the SMP
and PRGF, is given in Annex 3 at the end of this Report; the description here is limited to
areas in which the Credit will support the economic recovery and paving the way for
recovery and pro-poor growth.
25.   Under this program, total fiscal expenditure-including scheduled debt service-
will rise to 11 percent of GDP. As a primary deficit of 0.9 percent of GDP will result,
reforms will continue to concentrate on improving mobilization of receipts and
strengthening of expenditure control. A decree to control the level of expenditure will
eliminate extra-budgetary expenditures, and the BCC will no longer finance expenditures
that have not been approved by the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget. The
Government will shift the composition of expenditure to raise social expenditure
significantly. Salaries will be increased progressively to reasonable levels: phantom



-8-
workers are being eliminated from the payroll, and a study of civil service employment
will be undertaken with assistance from Belgium before the end of 2002 so a full reform
of the civil service can be initiated in 2003. To link the budget process to outcomes,
budget execution for 2001 will be audited by the Cour des Comptes (General Accounting
Office). This will be repeated for the 2002 outcome, to provide the basis for a full review
before the end of 2003.
26.   The aim of monetary policy is to restrict monetary growth sufficiently to break
hyperinflation while accommodating a slight increase in demand for money as public
confidence returns. BCC will inject liquidity to enable banks to unfreeze their reserves at
the central bank so that they may in turn accommodate their clients. Policy makers expect
that the foreign exchange reserve position will continue to improve. A new law on
banking and credit establishments (as well as savings cooperatives), published in early
February, has assigned banking supervision to the BCC and given the BCC clear
authority to intervene in the sector. Interest rates have been lowered, but will remain
above the rate paid on certificates of deposits. With the independence of the BCC and the
above measures, interest rates and monetary creation will henceforth be instruments of
monetary policy rather than an instrument for financing the budget deficit.
27.   Under the PRGF, semi-annual performance criteria will include: no financing of
budget expenditure without the approval of the Ministry of Finance, net cumulated bank
credit to the government, net bank credit to public sector enterprises, floor on net foreign
assets of the BCC, and no new non-concessional external borrowing or guarantees. The
performance indicators for the first year program will also call for certain measures
concerning key public enterprises and banks, and a plan for good governance. This
should also pave the way for access to the advanced HIPC Initiative.
III.  EXTERNAL DEBT
28.   The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is one of the world's most debt-
laden countries. Over the past few decades, weak policies and conflict, compounded by
sometimes-misguided borrowing and lending decisions, have produced an unsustainable
debt burden. By the first half of the 1990s the DRC had interrupted the repayment of
most of this debt, which resulted in a significant build-up of arrears. The estimated total
stock of the DRC's external debt at the end of 2001 stood at US$12.9 billion, which
represents about 226 percent of GDP and 1,280 percent of exports. Ten creditors hold
about 87 percent of the total debt: the USA (21%), France (11%), the World Bank Group
(11%), the African Development Bank Group (9%), Belgium (8%), Italy (8%), Germany
(7%), Japan (5%), the Netherlands (4%), and the IMF (4%). Overall about 74 percent of
this debt is due to Paris Club members, 19 percent to multilateral institutions, and 7
percent to non-Paris Club members and commercial creditors (including short-term debt
in arrears for more than one year).
A.    Normalization of Relations, Arrears Clearance and Debt Service
29.   The current Government has stated its commitment to nonnalize relations with
the country's creditors as a critical step toward economic stabilization. The Government



-9-
has demonstrated its commitment to normalization by making symbolic deposits into an
escrow account at the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) since June 2001. Despite
a very difficult budget situation, monthly installments in the name of the IMF, the World
Bank, and the ADB (respectively SDR 100,000, SDR 60,000 and SDR 150,000) have
been paid regularly. The funds show earnest intent to make progress towards clearance of
arrears, but continue to form part of the DRC's foreign exchange reserves, and would not
be paid over to any creditor ahead of any arrears clearance effort.
30.   The nature and magnitude of the DRC's external debt raises two major issues.
First, arrears need to be settled. Of the total stock of external debt, about
US$10.1 billion (78 percent) is overdue. This includes US$1.9 billion to multi-lateral
creditors, US$7.5 billion to Paris Club creditors, and US$0.7 billion to non-Paris Club
bilateral and commercial creditors (including short-term debt in arrears). As of end 2001,
arrears to multilateral creditors include US$318 million to the World Bank (IBRD:
US$128 million, IDA:US$190 million), US$503 million to the IMF, and
US$942 million to the African Development Bank Group (ADB: US$901 million, ADF:
US$42 million). The magnitude of the DRC's arrears to the African Development Bank
(which amount to about 96 percent of total arrears to the AfDB Group) is of particular
concern and is the subject of a special review described in this section. Satisfactory
settlement of this issue is needed to maintain a satisfactory rating for AfDB debt.
31.   Second, debt service obligations have to be met. Short of a significant
restructuring of its debt, the DRC's payment obligations (excluding interest on arrears) to
its creditors in the coming years are not sustainable: US$356 million is due in 2002,
US$275 million in 2003, US$201 million in 2004. Debt service in 2002 represents about
106 percent of 2001 govenmment revenues. For the period 2002-2004, obligations on
current maturities to the multilateral institutions alone amount to about US$63 million per
year, which is equivalent to 6 percent of year 2001 exports and 19 percent of government
revenue. This includes obligations to IDA of US$28 million in 2002. To prevent a
renewed default after arrears clearance, extemal support will be needed, in the form of
debt relief on payment obligations andlor financial resources to cover payment
obligations (in particular for the service of the multilateral debt).
32.   The DRC has therefore an acute need for debt relief, in particular in a context of
major rehabilitation and recovery requirements and urgent need for speedy and effective
action to help break the cycle of violence, low growth, and severe poverty. The objective
is three-fold: (i) to clear arrears to multilateral creditors and to ensure that the DRC has
the capacity to remain current on service; (ii) to resolve the issue of arrears to Paris Club
creditors through a substantial provision of debt relief, and to ensure that the DRC has the
capacity to remain current on the resulting debt service; and (iii) to prepare for an
eventual access to the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC). The detailed
strategy for arrears clearance has been designed to avoid jeopardizing key recurrent
expenditures: (i) debt service payments to establish the Government's financial
responsibility have been reduced in reflection of its inability to pay debt service in the
period leading up to arrears clearance (para. 29 above); (ii) the IMF PRGF and this ERC,
along with other donor assistance being organized in support of the government's
investment budget (Part IV below), will ease the foreign exchange constraint to prevent



-10-
the increased debt service from cutting into other budget expenditures; and (iii) the
procedure for an early decision point under the enhanced HIPC Initiative (para. 35-38
below) with the debt service relief that would entail is an integral part of the TSS.
33.   Among multilaterals, the World Bank, the IMF, and the African Development
Bank have coordinated closely to work toward a coordinated arrears clearance approach
for the DRC. Arrears to the Bank will be cleared through a bridge lending operation. The
IMF arrears will have been cleared through a bridge lending operation following the
expected approval of the PRGF scheduled for June 10, 2002. An exceptional mechanism
has been prepared to clear arrears to the African Development Bank Group. This is based
on a full clearance of arrears to the African Development Fund, partial clearance of
arrears to the African Development Bank, and consolidation of residual arrears to the
African Development Bank into a new 20-year facility. It calls for an upfront donor
contribution of US$127 million (US$42 million to cover ADF arrears, and US$85 million
for the partial payment of ADB arrears). A settlement for arrears to other multi-lateral
creditors (totaling $149.1 million) is under preparation as part of a broader debt relief
effort.
34.   Concerning bilaterals, a meeting of Paris Club creditors took place on April 10,
2002. This meeting aimed to agree on a mechanism to ensure an appropriate burden
sharing by all creditors, in securing a satisfactory settlement of arrears. Creditors agreed
to consider, after the IMF Board approval of the PRGF arrangement, a rescheduling on
Naples terms of arrears and maturities falling due on pre-cutoff date debt, including a
deferral of post-cutoff arrears and capitalization of moratorium interest.
B.    The Enhanced HIPC Initiative
35.   Arrears settlement should facilitate the DRC's qualification under the HIPC
Initiative. Taking advantage of HIPC flexibility for dealing with post-conflict countries,
the authorities would need to demonstrate a track record of at least six months beyond the
SMP before a decision point under the HIPC Initiative could be envisaged. On this basis,
a possible target for reaching the decision point could be set as early as the -first review of
the PRGF, possibly January 2003. The completion point would be determined so as to
permit the DRC to develop a track record of performance. A Joint Staff Assessment on
the I-PRSP (described in Section V.C.I below) and a full Debt Sustainability Analysis
are presented to the Board in parallel with this Credit. The DRC would benefit greatly
from having an early decision point.
36.   Currently the DRC is not fulfilling its external debt service obligations (apart
from the token deposits into the BIS escrow account). Given the large stock of arrears to
be rescheduled during the process of normnalization of its relations with the international
financial community, and without taking into consideration interest due on arrears, post-
HIPC debt service obligations actually rise until 2008.
37.   Debt service projections on the existing stock of end-2001 debt are presented in
Table 1 in three stages: on current maturities before normalization of the DRC's relations
with its creditors; b) after normnalization of the DRC's relations with its creditors through



-11-
a possible Paris Club operation and the clearance of arrears towards all creditors; and
c) after the delivery of assistance under the enhanced HIPC Initiative. The arrears
clearance operations assume for all bilateral and commercial creditors a Paris Club
rescheduling under Naples Flow terms (a 67 percent reduction on eligible debt during the
consolidation period) including the rescheduling of post cutoff arrears over five years
with a one-year grace period at market rates. It is also assumed that the Naples Flow
operation would create exceptional treatment to the DRC through the capitalization of
moratorium interest. Multilateral creditors are assumed to reschedule all their arrears.
38.     However, further burden sharing is necessary. The debt reorganizations described
here to clear arrears engender larger debt service obligations after 2002. While debt relief
flows under the enhanced HIPC Initiative reduce the debt service obligations after arrears
clearance, post-HIPC scheduled debt service remains higher than current debt service
projections. It will be important for donors to ensure a positive net transfer of resources to
the DRC through grants and highly concessional credits in addition to debt relief.
Table 1 - DRC: Scheduled Debt Service on Current Maturities
In US$ millions
2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007      2008     2009    2010
On existing maturities 1/  355.6  275.4  201.3  189.9  180.7   171.3    160.6    147.3   135.8
After rescheduling and  54.3  222.2   451.9   679.0   874.4    881.4    687.9    581.5   531.9
arrears clearance 2/
AfterHIPCassistancel/  54.3   172.4   307.9   337.9   307.5    211.8    113.0    99.3    87.2
Sources: Congolese authorities, creditor statements and staff projections.
1/ Excludes interest on arrears.
2/ Arrears clearance operations assume a Naples Flow rescheduling including the capitalization of moratorium interest and the
rescheduling of post-cutoff arrears over five years with a one-year grace period at market interest rates for all bilateral creditors
and the rescheduling at various terms of all multilateral arrears.
3/ Bilateral and commercial creditors are assumed to deliver their share of relief through a Cologne Flow rescheduling on eligible
debt and the remaining of the required HIPC assistance is to be delivered at the completion point through a stock of debt
operation. Multilateral creditors are assumed to provide HIPC debt relief as of the completion point, except for the IMF, the
World Bank, the AfDB/F and the EU for which delivery would start as of the decision point (January 2003).
IV.     DONOR SUPPORT AND FRAMEWORK FOR WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
A.      Donor Support
39.     Between the early 1990s and early 2001, donors limited their assistance to the
DRC to humanitarian aid and a small amount of technical assistance. With the emergence
of a clear window of opportunity created by progress in peace, reconciliation and
economic reforms, donors are re-engaging or preparing to do so. United Nations agencies
are helping the government with a variety of programs designed to create conditions for
lasting peace, including programs to clear mines; health, agriculture, and nutrition
programs; education and training services; and programs to assist with demobilization
and reintegration of soldiers. The European Union is helping with an expanded
humanitarian program for the rehabilitation of infrastructure, agriculture, water supply
systems, and health care services. It is also assisting with reforming the judicial system
and with strengthening government institutional capacity. Among the programs of the



-12-
bilateral donors, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland,
the United Kingdom, and the United States are all supporting programs to provide health
and nutrition services, safe drinking water supplies, support for agriculture and other
urgent programs, and help with building capacity in public administration. The AfDB
Group is expanding grant-funded activities in governance, capacity building, recovery
from volcano devastation, and technical assistance, and, once arrears are resolved, plans
larger credit-funded activities in HIV/AIDS and in water and sanitation. Several donors
require that the government establish and maintain a program with the World Bank and
IMF so as to provide them (the donors) frameworks and mechanisms to increase or
channel their activities.
40.   An information meeting for donors was held in Paris in July 2001, at which the
government presented its economic recovery program; a follow-up meeting in Brussels in
December 2001 assessed progress made since the July meeting. The ongoing work on the
proposed Emergency Multisector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (EMRRP)
was also shared with donors at the December meeting. The December meeting called for
the launching of a Consultative Group process within the following six months, assuming
continued progress on the SMP (and PRGF) of the IMF and on the inter-Congolese
dialogue. In this respect, a pre-Consultative Group meeting is scheduled for May 21,
2002 in order (i) to share views on the DRC's economic reforms, to be briefed on MDB
plans for arrears settlement and to mobilize financial support to settle these arrears, (ii) to
review the status of ongoing economic assistance programs with a view to accelerating
disbursements, and (iii) to present an overall strategy for economic recovery, including
umbrella projects, with a view to ensuring their full funding at a Consultative Group
which could take place by October 2002.
B.    IMF Assistance
41.   The DRC is also taking steps to normalize its relations with the Fund after an
eleven-year interruption.5 Understandings have been reached with staff of the Fund on a
three-year program (2002-2005) to be supported by a PRGF arrangement, with total
access equivalent to SDR 580 million (about US$730 million) or 109 percent of quota
under the Eleventh General Review. The first disbursement of about SDR 420 million
would take place upon Board approval, envisaged for early June 2002. Six subsequent
disbursements of SDR 26.7 million (US$33.6 million) each would be made upon
completion of semi-annual reviews. Repurchase obligations would be falling due
beginning in 2007, i.e. after reaching the completion point under the Enhanced HIPC
Initiative, currently envisaged in 2006.
42.   Looking ahead, the challenge for donors will be to coordinate their activities, to
avoid gaps and overlaps but also to create synergies among their programs. Priorities
have been set, but unless donors clearly adhere to a consistent recovery program, the
overall effort may be unsuccessful.
5 DRC was declared ineligible to use the Fund's general resources in 1991, its voting and related rights were
suspended in 1994, and the DRC has faced initiation of the procedure for compulsory withdrawal since March 1998,
repeatedly postponed due to the unsettled political and security situation and the limited information available on
economic development and policies.



-13-
C.     Framework for World Bank assistance: the Transitional Support Strategy
43.    The overall objective of the Bank's activities is to contribute to the transition to
peace and stability in the DRC and the sub-region. The Transitional Support Strategy
(TSS) discussed by the Board on July 31, 2001 indicates four areas of focus: (i) meeting
basic and urgent needs, (ii) rebuilding effective public institutions and policies, (iii)
revitalizing economic activity, and (iv) rebuilding administrative and implementation
capacity. These are described in Box 2. The TSS promotes "early wins" to build a track
record for the Government to begin to restore confidence and a view of a future both in
the local population and among donors and private investors.
44.     The Bank will intervene using three instruments:
* Financial support, including leveraging contributions from other donors
through co-financing arrangements;
*   Policy and technical advice, closely coordinated with the IMF and others; and
* Aid coordination.
Box 2: Objectives of the Transitional Support Strategy
Objective                          Description of Program or Activity
Meeting basic and urgent  . Support social service delivery and social infrastructure ruined by looting,
needs                       war and years of neglect
. Re-integrate ex-combatants and displaced households
. Establish and support an anti-HIV/AIDS task force at a level higher than
the ministerial level. Establish facilities for safe blood transfusion.
Rebuilding effective public  * Strengthen transparency, accountability and participation
institutions and policies  * Lay the groundwork for broad-based growth with disincentives to
corruption and a new role for the State vis-a-vis local administrations, the
private sector and non-governmental groups
Revitalizing economic     . Aid the private sector through reconstruction of essential infrastructure
activity                  . Initiate community-driven development activities
* Revive the food linkages from farmer to consumer
* Introduce regulatory and other incentives for investment while ensuring
that all can broadly share the benefits of natural resource wealth.
Rebuilding administrative  * Develop an implementation capacity to manage donor aid efficiently,
and imnplementation         transparently and without corruption.
capacity
45.    The Bank is supporting an Emergency Early Rehabilitation Project (EERP,
funded through a $50 million IDA grant approved on July 31, 2001) and an Emergency
Stabilization and Recovery Project (ESRP, funded through a donor trust fund). Most of
the funds have been committed, and implementation performance on both projects is
rated more than satisfactory at 4.5. The ESRP is financing NGO and community-
executed projects include drainage, street repairs, and rehabilitation of social
infrastructures (schools, training centers, health centers, provincial hospitals). Activities
are spread over several provinces, with projects in the pipeline for rebel controlled
provinces in the East. PCF grants are financing demobilization and reintegration program
for vulnerable groups ($2 million), reintegration of street children in urban areas, and



-14-
emergency repairs in the city of Kisangani for the rehabilitation of social infrastructures
(schools and health centers) and rural roads executed by NGOs using labor-intensive
methods. In parallel, and in the context of the above operations, the Bank has provided
extensive technical assistance to prepare the reform of the investment and mining codes,
to prepare reviews of public expenditures and of the parastatal sector, to deepen work on
an I-PRSP, and to prepare for national and regional demobilization, disarmament and
reintegration (DDR) programs. These steps are essential prerequisites to further
development assistance measures. Key instruments underpinning Bank-re-engagement
beyond the EERP, ESRP and other small grants are the proposed Credit and an
Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program to support
rehabilitation in key sectors (Text Box 3). The EMRRP provides a framework and
institutions within which donors can coherently work together in order to address the
country's most urgent, minimum and non-deferrable rehabilitation needs.
Box 3: Overview of the Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program
The overall purpose of the proposed EMRRP is to initiate the long-term process of reconstruction and
economic rehabilitation. Parallel financing for this project is expected from a number of donors. The
program comprises four components: (a) rehabilitation and reconstruction of critical infrastructure
(transport, water supply, electricity, and urban infrastructure); (b) agriculture, delivery of social services
(education, health, social protection) and community development; (c) development of sector strategies
for the medium and long terms, and strengthening of human and institutional capacities; and (d)
management, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the program and the IDA-supported
project.
The proposed program will help prevent the further deterioration of health and loss of life of people by
increasing food security, delivering health care and other basic services, restoring water and energy
supply services, and improving public health conditions in cities. It will also help lay the groundwork for
future policy and institutional reforms and a future investment program for the country's development.
V.     THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.     Objectives and Design
46.    Objectives. The main objective of the proposed Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC) is to help advance the TSS goals of supporting economic stabilization and
supporting structural reforms to lay the basis for recovery within the strategy presented in
the Government's I-PRSP. More specifically, the ERC builds on the wide-ranging
reforms already undertaken and would support the Government's efforts to pursue policy
and structural reforms needed to (a) improve governance and reduce corruption with the
objectives of fostering private sector development and increasing the supply of public
services; (b) improve public sector financial management, especially regarding public
expenditures; (c) continue its reform and restructuring of the public enterprise sector,
(d) begin the reform of the financial sector, especially the restructuring of commercial
banks; (e) support policy actions in the forestry sector in anticipation of implementation
of new regulations; and (f) provide support to urgent special actions within the mining
sector that support prospects for fostering restructuring of the sector. These reforms will
thus help pave the way for a transformation from an inefficient and concentrated state-
controlled economy to one that is market-based and better able to deliver services and to



-15-
reduce the extraordinary levels of poverty-accentuated by conflict and the particular
needs of demobilized ex-combatants-in the DRC.
47.   Design. The Credit, in an amount of US$450 million equivalent, will be used as
follows. The first tranche, in an amount of about US$410 million, would be made
available at effectiveness. Of this, at the request of the Congolese authorities, about
US$330 million would be used to reimburse directly the creditors who had extended a
bridge loan used to clear the DRC's arrears to IBRD and IDA; the remainder of the
tranche after settlement with the bridge financiers (about US$80 million) would also be
made available at effectiveness and would be deposited into a special deposit account
opened in U.S. dollars and held in the name of the Ministry of Finance at the Central
Bank of Congo. These resources would be used to finance imports, except those on a
negative list, as specified in Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement. The use of the funds
deposited by IDA in the deposit account of the Central Bank will be subject to annual
audits by auditors acceptable to IDA.
48.   Two subsequent floating tranches would aim at buttressing initial, critical and
sensitive actions related to the natural resource sector. The forestry sector tranche,
about US$15 million equivalent, would be released after implementation of specific
actions, acceptable to IDA and pertaining to urgently needed safeguard actions and
reforms in the forestry sector as described in paragraphs 90-95. Disbursement of this
tranche would be made in U.S. dollars into the Ministry of Finance deposit account in the
Central Bank of Congo, and would be subject to that account's use and audit
requirements.
49.   The mining sector tranche, about US$25 million equivalent, would be released
after implementation of specific actions, acceptable to IDA and pertaining to the mining
sector and the restructuring of Gecamines, the country's largest mining company, as
described in paragraphs 101-104 Disbursement of this tranche would also be made in
U.S. dollars into the deposit account opened in the Central Bank of Congo, and would be
used to finance imports, except those on a negative list, as specified in Schedule 1 of the
Credit Agreement. The authorities intend to use the counterpart funds to finance
redundancies at Gecamines in accordance with the plan set forth in paragraphs 101-104.
The use of the funds deposited by IDA in the deposit account and the corresponding
counterpart funds will be subject to annual audits by auditors acceptable to IDA.
B.    Justification for the Proposed Credit
50.   The DRC is well endowed with natural resources. However, years of
mismanagement and conflict have resulted in a secular decline in per capita income,
which is now less than US$90 per year, or $ 0.25 per day. Moreover, over 70 percent of
the population now lives on less than one dollar per day. Since the early 1990s, the DRC
has accumulated arrears on its external debt of some US$9.5 billion, which is about
75 percent of total outstanding and disbursed debt.
51.   As described in Section II, social disruption and civil strife have been a fact of life
for many years. Following the civil conflict leading to the overthrow and departure of



-16-
President Mobutu in 1997, a new war on Congolese soil has resulted, directly or
indirectly, in over 1.5 million deaths. Since April 2001, the government has embarked on
an extremely ambitious reform program-described in Section II.B-supported by an
IMF Staff Monitored Program. To date, the SMP has been implemented in a satisfactory
manner, with two exceptions: some expenditures in the early weeks of the program were
made outside budgetary channels, and salary arrears accrued temporarily in late 2001 but
have since been repaid. A second review of the SMP has confirmed this and permitted the
DRC to negotiate a three-year PRGF arrangement. This is expected to be presented to the
Fund's Board shortly before this proposed Credit is presented to the Bank's Board,
together with the Joint Staff Assessment of the I-PRSP and the preliminary HIPC
document. The proceeds of the PRGF would be used to (a) assist the DRC in repayment
of a bridge loan from a third party to clear its arrears to the IMF (SDR 405 million) and
(b) to build up external reserves. Currently, the DRC has no current maturities to the
IMF.
52.   Other multilateral creditors also intend to restructure their arrears, beginning at
the same time as the IM\IF and the World Bank Group, in a way that would ensure a zero
cash flow burden to the DRC with respect to maturities falling due in 2002 following
arrears clearance. Bank and Fund staff have worked with the AfDB on a strategy for
clearance of Congolese arrears on AfDB and ADF debt so as to ensure full coordination
in approval of the issue. This work has also been undertaken within the backdrop of the
9th Replenishment of the African Development Fund. The Paris Club will meet after the
IMF Board approval of the PRGF arrangement to consider a rescheduling on Naples
terms of arrears and maturities falling due on pre-cutoff date debt, including a deferral of
post-cutoff arrears and capitalization of moratorium interest.
53.   Furthermore, the proposed PRGF and ERC are based on, and have been designed
to be, fully compatible with the I-PRSP (summarized in the next section). In the
preliminary HIPC document it is proposed that the decision point be reached in early
2003, on the basis of evidence including the second quarterly review of the PRGF. The
Joint Staff Assessment of the I-PRSP states "the I-PRSP provides a sound basis for the
development of a fully participatory PRSP, for reaching the completion point under the
HIPC Initiative and for Bank and Fund concessional assistance."
54.   In summary, the proposed ERC is a key building block for the normalization of
the DRC's relations with its external creditors, which is indispensable in the fight against
poverty. In this regard, it may be noted that following approval of the proposed ERC, the
Board will be asked to approve a credit to support the Emergency Multisector
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program.
C.    Features and Content of the Program
1.    The Interim PRSP and the Government's Reform Program
55.   The Government has prepared an Interim PRSP following wide consultations with
civil society, communities and other groups. This work was endorsed by the inter-
Congolese dialogue. A full PRSP is planned on the basis of procedures developed under



-17-
the I-PRSP, the outcome of the inter-Congolese dialogue and conditions on the ground.
The I-PRSP rests upon three pillars:
Restoration and consolidation of peace and sustainable good governance
Macroeconomic stabilization and pro-poor growth
* Community Dynamics6
Participatory consultations carried out under the I-PRSP as a test of the methodology in
four provinces as a preparation for the full PRSP revealed that the poor consider the
primary causes of poverty to be appalling governance at all levels, economic
mismanagement, systematic plundering of public and natural resources, total absence or
poor quality of public services, and lack of maintenance of economic and social
infrastructure. Filling the vacuum left by the absence of the State, particularly vibrant
community-led initiatives to maintain social services have evolved in most regions. At
the same time, the country's massive external arrears to multilateral and bilateral
creditors have effectively cut it off from access to fresh money that is needed to
rehabilitate and operate social and economic services.
56.    The government's reform     program   is laid out in three overlapping phases:
stabilization, recovery and growth. The stabilization and recovery phases aim initially
(2001-2005) at (i) restoring peace, establishing good governance and stabilizing the
macroeconomic environment, and (ii) putting in place the basic building blocks for
sustainable pro-poor growth, while (iii) making every effort to produce tangible benefits
for the population as a whole and the poor in particular.
57.    The I-PRSP proposes a strategic context for future actions and policies for
poverty reduction. During the coming three years, this outline would be transformed into
an operational plan. This requires the prioritization of the planned actions, an estimate of
program costs and identification of internal and external sources of financing. In this
context, it will be necessary to refine the macroeconomic framework and the sector
strategies and to allocate the government budget according to these priorities. In parallel,
the Government would need to put in place a management plan and assistance for
community dynamics that permits the people to identify, finance, execute, monitor and
evaluate actions and programs for poverty reduction at the community level. Finally, it
would implement a poverty monitoring system. The list of activities and their calendar
are laid out in the I-PRSP document. After the elements of the I-PRSP have become
operational, the Government proposes to prepare a full PRSP, with a target date of late
2004 or early 2005. This document will require deep reflection supported by the
experience and lessons leamed from the interim period.
6 The people of DRC responded to the challenges of survival over the past decades by developing their own, people-
based, ad hoc solutions (often based in the informal economy) making innovative use of whatever resources are
available. This capacity for social innovation and maintenance has diversified and even strengthened with time,
and this "community dynamics" has been identified by the PRSP team as a fundamental building block for any
strategy for pro-poor growth and development.



-18-
2.    Components of the Program Supported by the Credit
58.   Consistent with the I-PRSP, the proposed Credit supports reforms during the
stabilization and recovery phases in the following areas: (i) improving governance both
as it affects the poor and as it affects the allocation of resources and the efficiency of their
use; (ii) increasing public expenditure and improving its management; (iii) reforming the
public enterprise sector so as to increase its contribution to growth and poverty reduction;
(iv) restructuring the commercial banking sector, which is indispensable to enhancing
recovery led by private sector initiative; and (v) harnessing the country's natural resource
base as a motor of pro-poor growth.
59.   The ERC is focused on core areas, each essential in itself and together forming an
interlinked environment for economic recovery and a firm foundation for pro-poor
growth. In the context of ERC supervision, Bank staff will also closely supervise
implernentation of the Government program. Satisfactory implementation could
constitute the basis for further financial support from IDA in FY 2003-4, in coordination
with the Fund's supervision of the three-year PRGF arrangement.
60.   This section describes each component of the program to be supported by the
Credit providing in each case (a) an overview of achievements in the last year; and
(b) objectives over the next 12-15 months.
2.1   Improving governance, enabling the private sector and reducing corruption
61.   Context. During the participatory consultations conducted to prepare the I-PRSP,
the Congolese people strongly indicated their belief that poor governance and widespread
corruption are among the foremost causes of the widespread poverty. The rule of law is
not always respected in the application and enforcement of justice. The private sector
finds that unclear, mutually conflicting or unwise regulations inherited from the past
hamper productive economic activity and provide a vehicle for corrupt practices.
Economic recovery, particularly recovery leading to pro-poor growth, is especially
difficult in such an environment.
62.   The authorities' objective is to reverse this situation and to improve economic
governance. They have begun to develop and implement a comprehensive strategy for
improving governance and reducing corruption. Areas of particular concern in the short
run pertain to (a) strengthening rule of law, the judiciary, and the legal and regulatory
environment for private sector development; (b) reducing corruption in the public sector;
and (c) improving public sector financial management with a view to improving access to
basic services in key areas including health, education, and social protection. These are
described in greater detail in this section.
(a) Strengthening the rule of law, thejudiciary and improving the legal and
regulatoryframeworkfor private sector development.
63.   The authorities have already taken significant actions, including the removal of
price controls for all products concomitantly with the liberalization of the exchange rate
in May 2001. While exceptions are made for water, electricity, and transportation,



-19-
transparent mechanisms have been introduced to adjust regularly the prices of these
services to cover any increases in production costs. A new law creating commercial
courts was adopted by Parliament in early July 2001, and initial steps are being taken to
strengthen the judicial system with assistance from the European Union and bilateral
donors. The commercial courts are expected to be operational in July 2002; some of the
judges will be "consular" (selected from the business sector). A new investment code in
line with best intemational practice has been voted by Parliament and promulgated by the
President in February 2002. The Govermment expects to present to Parliament by end-
2002 a new labor code that is currently under preparation. At the sector level, new
legislation and implementing regulations have also been prepared in mining, forestry and
banking, and the allocation of concessions for the exploitation of natural resources will
now be done through a transparent and competitive process replacing personal
negotiations. These are described below in relevant sections of this Report.
64.   Govemment has recently reduced the number of taxes administered by central
organizations from 366 to 89, although it has not yet put into effect all the enabling
regulations (textes d'application) that are required to make the new laws effective,
ensuring also that all earlier legislation is annulled (in order to eliminate any opportunity
to benefit from the possibility of two or more, possibly contradictory, laws being
concurrently in effect and applying to the same circumstances).
65.   Looking forward, the government will conduct a rapid review  of the
implementation of the impact of the measures being undertaken to date and will take
complementary measures, as part of its medium-term program, to ensure that the legal
and regulatory framework for private sector development continues to improve while
ensuring appropriate protection of consumer and public interests.
(b) Reducing corruption in the public sector
66.   The Government proposes a multi-pronged strategy to address corruption in the
public sector. First, an ethics code for all persons in the employ of the state regardless
of rank and nature of appointment will be introduced. The Code will draw inter alia on
the model adopted by the Committee of Ministers to Member states of the Council of
Europe on codes of conduct for public officials. It will also draw upon, and update, the
texts of existing legislation and regulations dating from the era of the party-state,
consolidating them into a single, coherent, comprehensive document. The Code was
produced in draft in April 2002 and will replace former regulations by September 2002.
67.   Second, the authorities understand that sustainable reform in the area of
governance comes from within, and may be supported but not designed by others.
Government has asked the World Bank and the World Bank Institute to facilitate a
workshop on governance and anti-corruption in late August or early September 2002 in
order to initiate a Governance and Anti-corruption Strategy and Action Plan before
the end of 2002. The Action Plan would set out clearly the leaders and managers in
government who would be responsible and accountable for each of a range of actions and
reforms to be carried out or put in place by agreed dates. In recognition of the fact that
the design and implementation of governance and anti-corruption reforms require a broad



-20-
coalition, representatives of central and local government, civil society and the private
sector will participate in the Workshop.7 The workshop will provide guidance for
Government to put in place a system of monitoring and reporting regularly to the
President on progress and issues.
68.     Third,  Govermnent has       also  decided   to  establish  an   Anti-Corruption
Commission and other institutions that may help in this area. The Commission would
have a three-part mandate: first, it would be responsible for the investigation and
prosecution of cases of corruption and related offences; second it would be a focal point
for making recommendations and initiating measures to prevent corruption; third, it
would be responsible for designing and implementing a program of public awareness to
help citizens combat corruption.8 In establishing the legal mandate of the Commission,
Government would meticulously determine and set out the full spectrum of corruption,
criminal offences of an economic nature and other related offences that may be
investigated and prosecuted by the Commission. The authorities have requested technical
assistance to obtain certain specialized skills and the institutional capacity to address
particular governance and anti-corruption issues.
69.    Fourth, the Government intends to undertake a complete overhaul of public
procurement with the assistance of the IDA in the next eighteen months. This will build
on the mini-procurement assessment undertaken by IDA in May 2001. This assessment
called for (i) updating and revising procurement legislation; (ii) strengthening functional
structures in decision making; (iii) improving contract management; (iv) improving the
procurement information system; and (v) training of personnel. Pending the completion
of this reform, and as a safeguard measure, by end June 2002 the Minister of Finance will
appoint independent observers to the Conseil d'Adjudication with responsibility for
reporting to him as to compliance with the principles of good procurement. The
Government will also establish a black list of firms and individuals prohibited from being
awarded contracts. In doing so it will draw upon the World Bank's blacklist and from its
own list of companies who are known to be in breach of contract on ethical grounds, or
who have been identified as having been involved in corrupt practices in the past.
Government will make readily available to the public the infonnation, including
ownership, in the registry of firms who are eligible for government contracts.
70.    Fifth, the work of the audit and inspection services gives them insight into and
knowledge about corrupt practices and abuses of power in tax administration, expenditure
management, in procurement and throughout government. Government intends to
analyze the reports prepared by the audit authorities to contribute to a coherent program
of public sector reforms and to the design of appropriate administrative, legal and
' The participants will include representatives from the major organizations, functions and sectors of Govemment that
must work well in order to provide good governance and curb corrupt practice. They include the Presidency; the
National Assembly; the Judiciary; Provincial Govenmments; and the Ministries of Finance, Justice, Public Service,
and Human Rights; representatives of key economic sectors-agriculture, mining and forestry; representatives of the
key social sectors-education and health; as well as senior representatives from the Cours des comples, the
Inspectorate of Finances, the Customs and Excise Office (OFIDA), and the Conseil d'adjudication des marche's
publics.
8 Govemment will undertake to determine whether this accords with the current constitutional and legal framework
and, if not, what changes would be required to provide for it.



-21-
punitive measures. Specifically, it is expected that representatives of the Cours des
comptes and the Inspection generale des finances will identify systematically the reforms
that the auditors and inspectors have recommended and organize them as a contribution
to a coherent program of reforms. They would also identify all the sanctions that are
implicit in the auditors' findings in order to follow them up with the appropriate
measures.
(c) Improving Public Sector Financial Management
71.   Context. Public sector financial management broke down completely over recent
decades, in terms of both expenditure management and revenue mobilization. Corruption,
mismanagement and ad hoc spending became the norm, with even the existing legal
provisions being commonly disregarded. For several years there was no budget or no
relevant budget, the document being produced during or at the end of the fiscal exercise
and with allocations that bore little relation to actual expenditure. Moreover, substantial
off-budget channels emerged both for quasi-fiscal transactions and financial flows
between the State and its various dependent concems, notably Gecamines and MIBA,
which by the year 2000 accounted for as much as 25 percent of total govemment receipts
or 1.2 percent of GDP. Income generation also faltered, with annual government revenue
over the period 1995-2000 falling to below 5 percent of GDP, compared to an average in
Sub-Saharan Africa of around 30 percent.
72.   Objectives. The Government's objective is to ensure the transparent, effective
and accountable use of public funds, to which end it is seeking to restore acceptable
revenue generation and expenditure management practices and to regularize the budget
planning and monitoring process. In particular mechanisms will need to be put in place to
monitor the use of (i) expenditures in general, and (ii) poverty related expenditures
including those financed from possible HIPC related debt service savings, in particular.9
Over time, the objective will be to achieve the full attainment of international fiduciary
standards, though all sides acknowledge that this will be a difficult and lengthy process.
73.   Activities to date. Significant reforms have already been launched with technical
assistance from the IMF and the World Bank. These efforts are expected to continue for
several years and have focused to date on the regularization of the budget preparation
execution, accounting and expenditure tracking procedures and on the termination of all
off-budget spending. Looking ahead, the authorities intend, with assistance from IDA, to
initiate a public expenditure analysis cycle in FY 2002, which will produce
recommendations for the next stage of public expenditure work by end-September 2002.
This PER product will focus on the role of central government in (a) providing services
in key sectors (health, education, transport and infrastructure) and more importantly in (b)
increasing the availability of these services as currently provided by the
private/nongovernmental sector, whose role has increased dramatically as the State's
ability to meet basic needs has withered away. On the basis of this PER product and other
technical advice, the authorities expect to produce a budget law for 2003 that has
9 These mechanisms will need to be in place before the HIPC decision point.



-22-
improved estimates for budget allocations for all categories of recurrent and capital
expenditure. By the end December 2002, a poverty expenditure tracking assessment will
be undertaken with the assistance of the World Bank and MIMF, in order to be able to
properly account for the use of debt relief savings generated by the HIPC initiative.
2.2   Public enterprise sector reform
74.   Context and development objectives. Economic recovery is impeded by a
dysfunctional public enterprise sector. This is a large sector in the DRC, consisting of
51 purely stated-owned enterprises and about 44 mixed enterprises, covering all the
sectors of the economy. This presence has made the state the largest economic agent,
resulting in issues ranging from good governance and gaps in the delivery of key social
services to dilution of public sector capacity. The current legal structure supporting the
economic activity of state-owned enterprises is no longer adequate, and does not provide
for the necessary safeguards allowing for private sector investment. In addition, current
price regulations systems, an inadequate labor code, and an onerous and fragmented
fiscal regime hamper possible developments of both the public enterprises and the private
sector. Reforms of the public enterprise sector that can prepare the way for changing this
situation will be an important contributor to economic recovery.
75.   The objectives of the reform are (i) to ensure that basic services are provided on a
sustainable and profitable basis, (ii) to reduce fiscal pressure caused by public enterprises
mismanagement, and (iii) to contribute to attracting employment-generating investments
through the restoration of a conducive business environment. Finally, divestiture of some
enterprises will in some instances yield exceptional fiscal revenue for the state.
76.   Activities to date. Confronted with a depressed economic environment and
difficult political transition, the Government is in the process of building ownership-
both internally and within the broader public-of the need and will to reform state-owned
enterprises. This first step lays the groundwork for a general overhaul of the public
sector. Strong internal opposition to the process from  the Conseil Superieur du
Portefeuille, the regulatory authority in charge of all state-owned enterprises that is a
locus of the views of those who support a strong parastatal sector, hampers this effort. In
response, the Government has been undertaking a methodical internal process to build
consensus, to draw the Conseil into this consensus, and clear the way for quick reform in
the medium term. In this context it has already initiated several actions during 2001-02:
*  Audit of all the state-owned enterprises during the first semester of 2001 to
identify major governance issues. This public gesture serves as a bold statement
of the Governnent's intention: the results were published in the local press, and
led to most of the Managing Directors being replaced by temporary
administrators;
*  Seminar and Workshop on the issue of the reform, led by the Presidency. This
forum, which took place in September 2001, led to the preparation of a work
program for further development of strategy to reform the sector.



-23-
*   Establishment of a Steering committee for preparing and implementing the public
enterprise reform, scheduled for June 2002. The Steering Committee would report
to an inter-ministerial commission, and would have an Executive Secretariat. The
responsibilities of this Committee are: (i) to undertake an audit of all public
enterprises; (ii) to define the selection criteria and to select enterprises that should
remain in the State portfolio, and those that those should be transferred out; (iii) to
revamp the (organic) legislation governing public enterprises and establishments;
(iv) to establish the legal sectoral framework allowing for public enterprise
reform; (v) to establish divestiture strategies and procedures for those companies
which the State intends to divest; (vi) to restructure those companies which will
remain in the state portfolio; and (vii) to define and develop appropriate social
safety nets for workers made redundant by the reforms. In April the Presidency
informed all the relevant ministries and BCeCo of the launch of the administrative
procedures to select the staff of the steering committee, to refurbish the offices of
committee and to tender for the firms to conduct the public enterprise audit.
*   Establishment of sectoral working groups for identifying reform options for each
enterprise within each sector.' The Executive Secretariat of the Steering
Committee coordinates these groups.
77.     Looking forward, the Government proposes to follow-up its initial steps in
public enterprise reform as follows:
*   By end September 2002, it will conduct a two-step financial and technical audit of
each public enterprise, allowing for the diagnosis of steps to take for each
enterprise. This diagnosis will then be followed by the elaboration of the reform
strategy that will be ready by the end of December 2002.
*   The Government will also revamp the legal framework for public enterprises and
the law for privatization. General measures for the improvement of the business
environment, such as review of the fiscal regime, netting of the reciprocal debts of
public enterprises, and actions to promote small and medium sized companies,
will be taken. The corresponding enabling legislation will be ready for
submission to the National Assembly by end-December 2002.
*   The process of firm      level restructuring/divestiture    will begin    after the
legislative process is complete, expected in the first semester of 2003.
78.     The reform process is supported by the World Bank and by other bilateral and
multilateral donors playing key roles in reforming certain sectors of the economy. For
this process to succeed it must be a Congolese process, aided but not forced from the
outside. Much progress has been made in the past two years, and this process will be
monitored and assisted under the transitional strategy.
 Priority sectors have not yet been identified, although the authorities are giving considerable attention to
telecommunications and mining. A number of working groups have already been drawn up by the Minister of
Telecommunications to undertake an overall diagnosis of the sector and propose a global reform strategy. They have
already established (i) a draft law on telecommunications, (ii) propositions concerning the form of the ART, (iii) an
inventory of mobile licenses granted to date, and (iv) operating norms and standards for all existing cellular
operators. Mining reforms are discussed in the following section.



-24-
2.3   Recovery of the Financial Sector
79.   Context. Economic recovery of the private sector, the primary generator of
growth and employment, will require a supportive financial sector, one that can mobilize
savings efficiently, channel these savings into productive investment and support
commercial transactions through the provision of a variety of financial services. Today
the financial sector is in disarray, from the level of monetary policyll to that of
intermediation and services to clients.
80.   Banks have faced an extremely difficult operating environment for the past
decade, which has resulted in a dramatic decline in banking activity and widespread
insolvency in the system. Confidence in the system is low: many depositors have lost or
been unable to access their deposits, whose value has been seriously eroded by
hyperinflation. Bank deposits represent just 2 percent of broad money (M2) and credit to
the economy stands at less than 1 percent of GDP. The initial attempts by the
government-supported by an IDF grant and by Canadian assistance-to stabilize and
reform the banking sector were disrupted by the return of hyperinflation in the period
1999-2001; a recently completed audit of four banks, financed by this assistance, found
them to be undercapitalized, illiquid and insolvent, with over 60 percent of their
portfolios consisting of non-performing assets. Profitability is low or negative. Prudential
norms are not met. These banks are unable to perform the essential role expected of them
as regards (a) financial intermediation, (b) term transformation, (c) payment systems, and
(d) imposition of financial discipline. The situation of several of the remaining ten banks
is worrisome (non respect of prudential norms, organizational and managerial weakness,
significant financial disequilibrium and, in at least three cases, insolvency). One state-
owned bank, after ceasing operations from 1995-2000, has actually resumed operations
despite being insolvent.
81.   The objective of the Government's effort at financial sector recovery is to
recreate a financial system capable of fulfilling its role in private sector finance in a
sustainable manner. The legislative, regulatory and accounting structure, which is weak
and ill adapted to the requisites of the development of a sound financial sector, is being
strengthened by appropriate measures that will be completed by 2004. The fiscal regime
that is inappropriate to financial intermediaries, and the dysfunctional legal system that
poses a serious financial and operational risk, must be reformed in the medium term,
building on the initial steps already taken. The adequacy and transparency of banking
supervision and licensing procedures will be greatly augmented by this process.
82.   Activities to date. The Government proposes to tackle these problems and others
through a major rehabilitation of the banking sector, with the support of the IMF and the
World Bank Group. To this end, in 1998 the Government created a "Committee for
Restructuring the Congolese Banking Sector" (COREBAC) under the Central Bank.
COREBAC is responsible for bank restructuring. It has identified five private and three
"The Central Bank has only achieved independence under new Central Bank (BCC) charter passed in April 2002.
Before that time, it had not been able to refuse instructions to execute payments that had not been approved by the
Minster of Finance, making budget management and monetary control extremely difficult. The new law should
result in greater monetary discipline.



-25-
public sector banks as non-viable. The identified private sector banks are currently under
liquidation. A further four financial institutions have submitted restructuring plans to
COREBAC and are operating under a special restructuring regime. The new laws on
banking and on credit unions (February 2002) strengthen the legal environment for
financial institutions and provide greater independence to the supervisory authority.
83.   The new Central Bank (BCC) charter, which assures the independence of the
Central Bank as regards the conduct of monetary and exchange policy, was promulgated
in May 2002. A financial audit of central bank operations, financed using the resources of
the IDA-grant-funded ERRP, was launched in late April 2002 and is expected to be
completed by the end of September. A corrective action plan will then be prepared on the
basis of this audit, by the end of December 2002.
84.   Looking forward, the recovery of the financial sector is essential to private
sector recovery and growth. The Government intends to place the three public sector
banks identified as non-viable into liquidation by September 2002, and to limit
government shareholding in banks to under 20 percent. Liquidations and restructuring,
however, are only a necessary first step. An overall financial sector strategy under
development is to be adopted by end-June 2003. It will encompass legal, regulatory, and
accounting reforms, as well as a coherent strategy for other sub-sectors of the financial
system, including credit unions, microfinance, insurance, and specialized financial
institutions. As a next step in the bank-restructuring program, further audits will help to
determine more clearly the status of remaining banks. By September 2002 these audits
will permit the authorities to identify any ongoing banks which must be liquidated, and
which are to be privatized or restructured, including the conditions under this can be
done. The corresponding action plans will be ready by end-December 2002. The greatest
constraint to the implementation of this plan are the social liabilities on the balance sheets
of banks to be liquidated, and the high costs of restructuring and recapitalizing the
surviving banks which may be beyond the means of the current stockholders.
85.   One of the most urgent priorities in restoring the health of the financial sector is to
re-establish the fungibility of base money so that banks are able to convert free reserves
at the Central Bank into banknotes. The inability of banks to provide cash to their
customers has resulted in the discounting of checks, hampered regional commerce and
exacerbated financial disintermediation. The IMEF has made a number of
recommendations and offered technical assistance to the BCC to address this issue.
2.4   Natural Resource Sector
86.   Context and development objectives. Congo contains vast mineral and forestry
resources. In the past these have been abused, underused, and used to fuel a sad legacy of
more than a century of abuses of human rights as well as recent anmed conflict in the
Great Lakes region. Recovery of the sector must be accompanied by transformation to
modern best practices if the Congo is to escape the "curse of natural resources."
87.   The DRC has 60 million hectares of natural hardwood forest, which provides a
source of revenue and a way of life for the 35 million rural population of the country.



-26-
Present production is only 1 percent of the 6-10 million cubic meters sustainable annual
harvest. Taxes on export rights were only US$91,000 in 2001; exploitation rights netted
US$5,381 against a potential of US$60-360 million if all concessions were attributed in a
competitive market. If properly exploited, the sector would produce 60,000 jobs and
gross revenues of US$1 billion, 30 percent of which could flow directly to local
communities, improving rural life and encouraging sustainable forestry.
88.   The DRC has significant exploitable reserves of copper, cobalt, diamonds and
other minerals. Annual production of diamonds (including artisanal alluvial diamonds
and the production of the parastatal MIBA) has fallen from 26 million carats in 1988 to
16 million carets today. Production of copper has fallen from 475,000 MT to 25,000 MT.
The parastatal firm Gecamines was once the world's first producer of cobalt and a leading
producer of copper, as well as the country's first provider of foreign exchange (more than
US$1 billion per year, about three quarters of the total), 40 percent of the government's
revenues, and 7 percent of employment. Today Gecamines is bankrupt. In contrast,
private investors have been flocking to the DRC despite (or, in some instances
documented in the press and by the Security Council, in response to) the current
distressed environment12.
89.   The objective of Govermment policy in the natural resource sector is quickly to
rehabilitate and/or develop production in the country in an economically,
environmentally and socially sustainable way, and to ensure that development of the
natural resource sector contributes to growth, development and poverty reduction rather
than to the wealth of a privileged elite. Specific elements of the government's strategy
include:
*  Improving transparency and good governance in the management of mineral and
forest resources;
*  Establishing a legal and regulatory framework conducive to responsible private
investment, in order to contribute to resumption of growth in the natural resource
sector and in industries that utilize natural resources;
*  Increasing participation of local communities in forest management and direct
access to forest revenues; and
*  Addressing the immediate constraints of the largest mining company, Gecamines.
(a) Forestry
90.   Current activities. A new Forestry Code, recently drafted by the Ministry with
World Bank assistance and submitted to the Interministerial Committee on Economy and
Finance for its approval and formal submission in April 2002, will improve rural life and
encourage sustainable forestry. It assimilates intemational best practices. The Code states
that 30 percent of fiscal revenues (estimated to amount to US$60-360 million) will flow
directly to local communities, which will also be given the right to manage directly their
own forests. Large-scale logging concessions will be awarded through a transparent
Indeed, the Govemment's program, supported by the Bank calls for an evaluation of existing mining claims once a
new Mining Code is in place, with a view to annul those that were illegal.



-27-
market-based mechanism that discourages speculative holding of property while
encouraging private sector investment and operation, and which increases revenues
accruing to Government and local communities. Sustainable forest management will
become advantageous to local communities under this code. This promotes effective
enforcement in practice of the forest management plan that is a mandatory part of the
contract. This new code will also rationalize taxation in the forestry sector by reducing
the number of taxes (currently exceeding 60) and the number of authorized tax collection
agencies (currently 8 in number). The new code is expected to be adopted in June 2002,
and its implementing regulations by end-December 2002.
91.   The government has scheduled publication in May 2002 in its official gazette a
Ministerial Decree (Arrnte')13 establishing a moratorium on the issuance of all new
allocations, extensions or renewal of forestry concessions (including new autorisation de
prospection, lettre d'intention, and garantie d'approvisionnement or the transformation
of one such form into another) until the publication in the official gazette of the
implementation decree establishing new rules of adjudication within the context of the
new forestry code.
92.   By June 2002, the Government intends to conclude a review of concession
contracts under the old code in order to eliminate those that have expired or have not
complied with the terms and conditions (particularly payment of taxes and installation of
capacity) that the old code required. While political opposition to the measures taken is
likely, the Government has moved swiftly and boldly: by April 20, 2002, 143 contracts
covering 23.4 million hectares (out of 40 million hectares in 263 concessions under
review) had been annulled by decree.
93.   Immediate steps need to be taken to prevent speculative trading of long-term
logging rights on the forest in the period required first for legislative review and approval
and then introduction of implementation regulations for the new code to come into effect.
The contracts not yet annulled are largely held by speculators in the expectation that the
new regulations will greatly increase the value of their holdings. In April 2002 the
Ministry of Environment, with the concurrence of the Ministry of Finance, has decreed a
350-fold increase in the annual area fee (tax) on all existing contracts from US$0.000143
to US$0.50 per hectare to discourage speculative holding by those not engaged in
revenue-generating activity.
94.   The Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Finance are undertaking a detailed
review of the results of 2001 forest tax collections. This will be completed by June 2002.
The recommendations of a planned study of taxation of the sector based upon this review
will influence the regulatory texts implementing the code.
95.   These reforms, with immediate effects on government revenue and on supporting
community dynamics and self-reliance of the poor in forest areas-key elements of the
I-PRSP-would be supported by the forest sector floating tranche of ERC. This
13 This decree is satisfactory in forn and substance to the Association.



-28-
US$15 million tranche would be released upon submission for parliamentary approval of
new forestry code satisfactory to IDA.
(b) Mining
96.   Economic reform of the mining sector is underway. The authorities are pursuing a
strategy composed of three elements: (a) revision of the legal and regulatory framework;
(b) establishment of key institutional arrangements for the restructuring and privatization
of state owned mining enterprises; and (c) addressing the immediate crisis of Gecamines
through a study proposing strategies for the company's restructuring, and putting in place
voluntary program of separation for redundant, unpaid workers that will effectively begin
the restructuring process.
97.   Revision of the legal and regulatory framework. In 2001, the diamond sector
was liberalized. A diamond export monopoly granted a few years earlier was abolished
and purchasers and private trading posts may now operate without restriction in mining
production zones. Looking forward, as of 2002 the authorities are putting in place the
procedures for certification of origin required to adhere to the Kimberley Accord on
conflict diamonds; this should significantly enhance revenues from the sale of gem
quality stones.
98.   A new mining code was submitted into Parliament and is currently under
discussion; promulgation is expected in May 2002 notwithstanding substantial opposition
to reform on the part of certain national and foreign interests. The government has been
pursuing its mining sector reforms in a consultative manner. For the last three years,
mining conferences have been held to bring together foreign investors and other
stakeholders. The conference held in April 2002 focused on further measures the
government can take to attract responsible private investors interested in the long run
development of the sector.
99.    Following the adoption of new mining code, a new mining cadastre is to be
created by Presidential Decree in May 2002. A review of existing mining titles in light of
the new code will have been undertaken and a final list of valid titles expected to be
published by the end of 2002. New mining regulations (reglement minier) based on the
new code would be published by end-2002.
100.  The restructuring and privatization of state-owned mining enterprises. The
creation of a level playing field for mining investment in the DRC and the quick
rehabilitation of production require the immediate restructuring of state-owned mining
enterprises, especially Gecamines. This would entail the sale of a substantial part of their
assets, as well as the creation of a social safety net to assist redundant workers, the
transfer of social assets to municipalities, and the design of a program to handle
environmental activities. To this end, Government is seeking future World Bank
technical and financial assistance to reform, for a mining rehabilitation project currently
under preparation.



-29-
101. Restructuring of Gecamines. The government intends to completely restructure
Gecamines. The firm today has old, poorly maintained equipment, abysmal productivity,
high production costs that translate into substantial operating losses, 23,400 employees
who have not been paid for more than eight months, debt of about US$1.4 billion dollars
and arrears to the state and to state-owned utilities. It has become tangled in a multitude
of joint venture agreements, logistics contracts and supply agreements that substantially
reduce its viability. Restructuring is complicated by the firm's "quasi-state" role in the
provision of social services in much of the Province of Katanga and by the predominant
economic and social impact of the firm in that important province.
102.  As a first step, in April 2002 the President announced that a special Gecamines
restructuring unit is to be created within the Presidency; it is expected to be operational
by the end of May 2002. A restructuring study is being undertaken with IDA financing
and is expected to be ready at the end December 2002.
103.  However, in the very short run, Gecamines' ability to continue operations is
compromised by its wage arrears which, as of end-January 2002, were equivalent to
US$65 million and growing by about US$4 million per month. The company's
management recently calculated the cost of terminating the employment of around 11,000
retirees and candidates for voluntary departure, but a separation package under the
collective agreement with the company's unions would cost about $120 million, roughly
5 years of wages for an average Gecamines worker. This poses an impossible financial
burden for mass lay-offs at a bankrupt, illiquid company, and would set a precedent for
future programs of restructuring of public sector enterprises that the Government would
not be able to afford.
104. Accordingly the government has decided to put in place an initial program of
mutually agreed separation outside of the existing collective bargaining agreement with
the unions which could permit a rational restructuring of the mining sector to proceed.
Such an option of obtaining immediate payment of salary arrears in lieu of protracted
waiting for an uncertain outcome would likely be chosen by a significant number of
workers. The cost would be equivalent to salary arrears owed to workers paid in national
currency, about US$25 million. The program is expected to be in place by October 2002.
Departures are expected to begin immediately thereafter and to be completed by June
2003. Provided that the Government has, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA,
(i) established a commission for the validation of mining titles and an autonomous
mining registry (cadastre), (ii) established a permanent Gecamines restructuring unit at
the Presidency level, responsible for strategic decisions and the management of the
company's fixed assets, and responsible for carrying out the program for mutually agreed
voluntary separation, and (iii) furnished evidence of a voluntary separation plan of
Gecamines' workers with the agreement of its unions, then the fiscal burden of this
voluntary departure program would be partially financed by the mining sector floating
tranche of US$25 million.



-30-
3.    Looking Forward: The Immediate Agenda for Growth and Poverty Reduction
105.  Progress following the inter-Congolese dialogue is expected to permit a fuller
voice of the Congo's population, from all regions, in the poverty reduction and growth
agenda and in community dynamics. Looking beyond the ERC, the Government intends
to implement the I-PRSP while proceeding with necessary steps toward a full PRSP. The
reforms being tracked under the proposed Credit, macroeconomic stability (which is
tracked by the IMF but is a prerequisite for economic recovery) and governance, are key
to setting the stage for comprehensive reform of public enterprises and the financial
sector, and to supporting policy reform and restructuring in forestry and mining, in
preparation for growth.
D.    Credit Implementation, Monitoring and Disbursement Arrangements
106.  During credit implementation, IDA and the IMF will monitor to assure that the
macroeconomic framework does effectively support growth and poverty reduction and is
also adequate for the provision of future credits.
107. Overall coordination of the Credit. Day-to-day implementation of the reform
program will be coordinated by the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget.
Monitoring will be the responsibility of a high-level committee responsible for
implementing the programs of the Bretton Woods institutions, chaired by the Minister of
Economy, Finance and Budget. An inter-ministerial technical committee, headed by a
high-level coordinating staff, and comprising senior level staffs from various line
ministries, will assist the steering committee on a day-to-day basis focusing on policy
indicators. The technical committee will regularly inform the Bank about the progress of
implementation. The overall reform program will be reviewed by the Government in
close coordination with regular Bank and IME missions to ensure continued
implementation of all reforms within a sound macroeconomic framework.
108.  Disbursement mechanism. The Credit will have three tranches, of which the
first will be released on effectiveness, and the remaining two upon completion of specific
conditionalities in the mining and forestry sector. The Government will make two
disbursement requests for the first tranche so that: (i) about US$330 million of the
tranche would be disbursed by IDA to repay directly the obligations of the DRC to the
institution(s) that had extended the bridge loan used to clear arrears to IDA and IBRD;
and (ii) the balance of the tranche (about US$80 million) would be paid into a special
U.S. dollar deposit account in the name of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget
in the Central Bank of Congo. The foreign exchange made available under the mining
sector tranche and the forestry sector tranche will also be deposited to the same
deposit account. The Credit will follow the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures
for adjustment credits.14 Thus, disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases
and, hence, there will be no procurement requirements. In case any portion of the
proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes as set forth in the Credit
14 See "Simplifying disbursement procedures under Structural and Sectoral Adjustmnent Loans," Operational
Memorandum, February 8, 1996.



-31-
Agreement (Schedule 1), IDA would require the borrower to either: (a) return that
amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to
IDA. The deposit account will be independently audited by auditors and on terms of
reference acceptable to IDA.
109.  The authorities intend to use the counterpart funds from the mining sector tranche
to support only the program of mutually agreed separations of Gecamines workers who
opt for participation in the program, as specified in the DCA. The Ministry of Finance
will also set up accounting and tracking arrangements to ensure that these resources from
the Credit (including counterpart funds) are committed and expended in accordance with
the revised budgetary procedures and expenditure tracking arrangements currently being
set up with long-term technical assistance from the IMF.
110. Fiduciary and financial risk management. Recognizing the capacity
weaknesses as the DRC emerges from conflict, the authorities are making substantial
efforts to strengthen public sector financial management and accountability. The Central
Bank has created an internal audit department which contains an analysis of management
risks and weaknesses. At the same time an external audit of the BCC's financial
position is being currently conducted by an internationally recognized firm financed by
IDA. The auditor's final report, which will be completed by September 2002, will serve
as the basis for an action plan to be finalized by December 2002. Customs procedures
and systems (including for valuation) are being completely overhauled with long-term
technical assistance from the IMF in order to improve revenue collection and avoid over-
and under-invoicing 5. Government expenditure management and processes are being
reinforced to ensure that funds are being used appropriately, with long term currently
ongoing technical assistance from the IMF based on an initial in-depth diagnosis
undertaken by the Fiscal Affairs Department in July 2001. This will be deepened through
an Assessment and Action Plan (AAP) for tracking poverty expenditure using the 15
HIPC tracking benchmarks, to be undertaken jointly by IDA and the IMF, before
December 2002. This will be followed in the medium term by a full fledged CFAA. On
the IDA side, both the AAP and the CFAA will be undertaken with both PREM and
Financial Management staff. To improve procurement, a mini CPAR was prepared in
May 2001. A full CPAR will be undertaken in the next 18 months to assist the authorities
in completing a comprehensive proceed reform.
E.    Summary of Conditionalities and Benchmarks
111.  General conditions for any tranche releases are that IDA should be satisfied that
(a) macroeconomic policy framework for growth and poverty reduction is broadly on
track; and (b) that satisfactory progress has been achieved out in the carrying out of the
Program. In addition, this ERC is in effect a first step in support for a medium-term
rehabilitation and recovery program, in which further progress depends upon continued
effort by the government toward essential economic and pro-poor reforms. The
benchmarks for the Credit and for the medium-term program are summarized in Text
Box 4.
5 Imports are also subject to preshipment inspection, for invoicing purposes, by an internationally recognized company
with worldwide experience in this area.



-32-
Box 4: SUMMARY OF BENCHMARKS
I.      BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
* A macroeconomic policy framework, based on indicators mutually agreed upon, is being satisfactorily
implemented.
* Submission of the new Mining Code by the President to the National Assembly.
* Maintaining the existing moratorium on signing any new investment agreements that are incompatible with the
provisions of the new Mining Codes.
HI.     BEFORE EFFECTIVENESS
* Satisfactory clearance of arrears to IBRD and IDA.
* Refund of the outstanding balances in special accounts of closed operations in the past portfolio, if any.
mII.    BEFORE RELEASE OF THE FORESTRY SECTOR TRANCHE
*   Submission of a Forestry Code satisfactory to IDA in form and substance to National Assembly.
IV.     BEFORE RELEASE OF THE MINING SECTOR TRANCHE
* Establishment by decree of a commission for the validation of mining titles
* Establishment by decree of an autonomous mining registry (cadastre).
*   Adoption by G6camines, with the agreement of its unions, of an immediate program for mutually agreed voluntary
separation.
*   Establishment by decree of a permanent Gecamines restructuring unit at the Presidency level, responsible for
strategic decisions and the management of the company's fixed assets, and responsible for carrying out the
program for mutually agreed voluntary separation.
V. TO BE MONITORED AS PART OF A MEDIUM-TERM PROGRAM
*   Approval by National Assembly of budget for 2003 including recurrent and capital budget allocations for key
development ministries and agencies, acceptable to IDA.
* Satisfactory implementation of governance and anticorruption strategy and priority action plan, (including
realization of specific agreed actions).
*   Satisfactory implementation of commercial bank restructuring action plan, and the realization of specific triggers
within the control of govemment.
* Establishment of a Steering committee for preparing and implementing the public enterprise reform
* Adoption of the reform strategy for the public enterprise sector.
* Promulgation of the legal framework for public enterprises and the law for privatization.
* Completion of an examination of all existing forestry contracts for conformity with contractual termns and
regulations for their allocation, extension or renewal, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
* Annulment by Ministerial decree of each forestry contract not in conformity with these terms.
* Adoption of the forestry code, with a continuing moratorium on transformation of claims filed historically under
the old code into exploitation rights.
*   Completion of the restructuring of the Mining Cadastre, with validation of at least 90 percent of the existing
pemlits.
* Completion of a Gecamines restructuring study.
* Completion of an audit by an independent entity of the calculations of payments to separated Gecamines workers
*   Adoption of a program, based on the audit, to bring Gecamines' work force to an economically justifiable level by
2004, including a mechanism for the delivery of social protection benefits (severance pay and any unpaid wages)
to laid-off workers
F.      Environmental Aspects
112.    The program is classified as environmental category U as an adjustment credit; no
component is expected to have a negative environmental impact.
VI.     BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.      Benefits
113.    The first benefit would be the resolution of the IEDA/IBRD debt arrears constraint.
Without the foreign is exchange cash flow provided by the proposed operation, the DRC



-33-
would find it very difficult to clear its arrears to the Bank, in which case access to Bank
financial and other support would not be restored. The second benefit would be to
support policies that would help stabilize the economy and pave the way to
environmentally and socially sustainable growth and poverty reduction, through
(a) improved governance and reduced corruption, (b) an improved legal regulatory and
administrative environment, conducive to increased private investment, (c) improved
public expenditure management and a higher share of pro-poor expenditure;
(d) establishment of a public enterprise reform strategy; (e) initiation of banking sector
restructuring; (f) new mining and forestry codes; and (g) the adoption of key enterprise
level reforms in Gecamines.
B.    Risks
114.  Internal conflict. Although the Congolese have made significant progress in
dialogue, implementation of the resolutions made may be slow. At worst, the de facto
division of the country could be codified. This could leave the Government controlling
only part of a divided national territory, without the full resources needed to meet
international economic and political obligations or to address poverty. Even with a
satisfactory settlement among the parties to the current conflict, the "negative forces"
(largely parties to conflicts in neighboring states who have taken refuge in the DRC)
discussed in the Lusaka accord may continue their violent confrontation with local
authorities and local populations for several years to come.
As mitigation, deployment of UN forces and observers in support of the Lusaka
unification process helps to build up confidence and stability. The risk would be
further mitigated by the implementation, already underway, of the multi-national
demobilization and reinsertion program (MDRP) discussed by the Board on April
25, 2002. This program provides both a structure for conflict resolution and
conflict reduction and, with the associated trust fund, the means to finance an
inclusive and prompt demobilization, disarmament and reinsertion process.
115. Regional conflict. Separately, the conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo
and the population displacements within its borders and immiserization associated with
conflict are not entirely amenable to national policies and programs, but are linked to
conflict in the neighboring countries. The resource plunders across borders and the poor
reputation in the minds of international investors concerning the region as a whole are
also linked to this conflict. Even if the DRC is able to obtain satisfactory progress on the
peace and stabilization fronts, the possibility remains that the regionalization of other
conflicts will exacerbate the other risks noted in this section.
Besides the MDRP, a larger effort is underway. The regional approach to conflict
resolution and development, already begun by the Bank, the Organization for
African Unity, the Organization for European Cooperation and Development and
others, must be continued resolutely to minimize this risk.
116. Renewed arrears and lack of international support. When arrears are cleared,
the scheduled debt service of the DRC will rise to an unsustainable level unless
extraordinary debt relief and external financial assistance is provided, including through



-34-
the Enhanced HIPC Initiative. Should this not materialize, renewed default would be a
certainty since government revenues would be insufficient to cover fully the obligations.
The risk is mitigated by the fact that the proposed Economic Recovery Credit is
part of an overall program of multiyear assistance with an agreed financing plan,
with appropriate assurances forthcoming from different donors. On the
Government side, the assurance of future support to the reform program, and
potential access to the enhanced HIPC initiative, creates strong incentives to
remain current with debt service, once arrears have been cleared. The Bank will
also work actively to mobilize donor support in a timely manner, and to work
with the government and others in RDC to reduce obstacles-real or perceived-
to raising levels of donor commitment.
117.  Insufficient capacity. Despite its more-than-satisfactory implementation of the
SMP program over the last year, the Government's relatively weak institutional and
administrative capacity could lead to delays in the implementation of key measures.
Attention to other matters such as political reconciliation-including an increase in the
number of ministries, ministers and vice-ministers to accommodate the transition
government-and security could also cause delays. In this context, the inter-ministerial
committee charged with implementing programs of the Bretton Woods institutions will
improve its coordination mechanisms and mobilize a full-time technical team to work on
program design and implementation.
To mitigate this, the Government team will continue to benefit from massive
technical assistance from donors, in particular the IMF, the World Bank, the
African Development Bank, UNDP, ADBF and other donors.
118. Fiduciary risks. Fiduciary risks are considerable, but the government is making
substantial efforts to mitigate them through its various efforts, set forth in this report, to
strengthen public sector financial management with assistance from IDA and the IMF.
VIII. RECOMMENDATION
119.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
May 18, 2002



-35-
ANNEXES
1. Timetable of Key processing Events
2. Letter of Development Policy (Government)
3. Policy Matrix
4. Democratic Republic of Congo Social Indicators
5. Democratic Republic of Congo at a glance
6. Democratic Republic of Congo- Key Economic Indicators
7. Country Map



36
Annex 1
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the Credit:     6 months
Project prepared by:                  Government and IDA staff
ROC Decision Meeting:                 April 8, 2002
Appraisal:                            February 28, 2002
Negotiations:                         April 27, 2002
Board Presentation:                   June 11, 2002
Effectiveness                        June 2002
Project Completion:                  June 2003
This operation was prepared by a team led by Brendan Horton and Eric Nelson (Task
Team Leaders, AFTP3) and including Onno Riihl (Resident Representative for DRC);
Hans Wabnitz (LEGAF), Renee Desclaux (LOAAF), Abdul Haji (AFTQK); Ivan
Rossingol (AFTPS); Ann Rennie (AFTFS); Laurent Debroux and Giuseppe Topa
(AFTR2); Danielle Dukowicz, Sam Arie and Nadege Nouviale (AFTP3); J. Titsworth
and Gilles Gauvreau (Consultants); Paulo de Sa (CMNPO). The peer reviewers were
Stefan Koeberle (OPCPG), Brian Ngo (AFRCE) and Willem Zijp (AFTQK).
The Macroeconomics Sector Manager is Cadman Atta Mills, and the Country Director is
Emmanuel Mbi.



37
Annex 2
Letter of Development Policy
Translated from the French Original
May 14, 2002
To the President of the World Bank Group
1818 H Street NW
WASHINGTON D.C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Mr. President;
Despite its immense human and natural resources, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo is classified as one of the poorest countries of the world. For more than 30 years,
the country was governed in a highly centralized power structure. The passage to a
democratic state has been a difficult experience since 1990. Institutional instability,
pillaging and the resulting interethnic conflict have plunged DRC into a multidimensional
crisis of which one effect has been the aggravation of poverty. The accumulation of
arrears on multilateral and bilateral debt led donors and creditors to suspend development
cooperation at the beginning of the 1990s, with disastrous consequences for the welfare
of our population. Furthermore, the persistence of the economic and institutional crisis
has been exacerbated by violent armed conflict on Congolese soil with the participation
of several rebel movements and the armies of seven other African countries, and the
effective partition of our national territory.
The economic, social and environmental cost of this conflict is extremely high.
More than three million lives have been lost. The number of displaced persons is
estimated to be about four million in the subregion as a whole. Between 10 and 15
thousand children have been used as soldiers. The breadth and the complexity of the
conflict have put to the test our institutional stability and socio economic infrastructure,
represent a real threat to the territorial integrity of DRC, and risk to enflame the whole
subregion.
Since the first quarter of 2001, our government has been resolutely engaged in
restoring peace and constructing a modern state, to restoring macroeconomic equilibrium,
and restarting economic growth, as well as addressing the major needs created by the
conflict and natural catastrophes. Our partners have very favorably received our efforts.
Our determination to restore peace and to reconstruct the State has been first
expressed in our support of the Lusaka Accord, and subsequently by the establishment of
a cease-fire arrangement (UN Security Council resolution No 1341) and its enforcement
by the United Nations Mission to Congo. On the political front, we are happy to observe
that our efforts to reinforce the peace process and the intercongolese dialogue, which took
place in Sun City in April 2002, have had positive, encouraging results. The resulting
agreement has established the basis for a transition government.



38
Regarding economic and social policy, the government's document of reference is
our Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). This represents the expression of
the Congolese government's determination to begin the renaissance of our national life,
in a sustainable participative manner, based on a process of partnership with the whole of
civil society as well as internal and external partners. The I-PRSP serves as an organizing
theme and as a guide for actions to be taken at different phases of the process. In
addition, the strategies developed in the I-PRSP are articulated around three pillars,
namely (i) restoration and consolidation of peace; (ii) macroeconomic stabilization and
getting pro-poor growth going; and (iii) community dynamics. The I-PRSP has been sent
to you separately.
Our strategy to relaunch growth has several phases.
The first phase of the reforms, which is one of stabilization, has already given rise
to encouraging results as regards control of public expenditure and inflation. These
results reinforce the projects and programs that the government has put in place with the
assistance of the World Bank, United Nations agencies and other bilateral partners, in
order to attenuate as far as possible a further deterioration of the economic and social
situation, as well as an increase in poverty. The continuation of these efforts and the
consolidation of the results already attained should enable the country to pass from the
stabilization phase (2001-2002) to a recovery phase. It is only then that the phase of
reconstruction and sustainable pro-poor growth will begin.
In addition the government has undertaken, with the assistance of the international
community, a certain number of actions in the context of its Augmented Interim Program
(Programme Interimaire Renforce) that has been implemented in collaboration with
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in the context of the Emergency
Multisectorial Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project. The European Union has just
relaunched its cooperation, which has as its base the objective of reducing poverty.
We remain convinced that only a medium term stabilization and adjustment
program will permit the Democratic Republic of the Congo to gain eligibility to the HIPC
Initiative, better to address the enormous needs imposed by the restoration of
macroeconomic equilibrium, the necessary reconstruction and rehabilitation, and by
keeping the agreements made with its principal partners.
To this end, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is pleased
to submit you the present Letter of Development Policy for the period 2002-2003. This
letter, which is to be considered as part of our long-term strategy for poverty reduction
(PRSP), is thus submitted in support of our request for an Economic Recovery Credit in
the amount of SDR 360.4 million for our country.
We hope that this proposal package will be favorably received by the World Bank Group.
/signed/    Matungulu Mbuyamu Ilankir
Minister of Economy, Finance and Budget



39
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR 2002-2003
INTRODUCTION
1.    The government's document of reference is our Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), which is the expression of the government's determination to
begin a renaissance, in a sustainable participative manner, based on a process of
partnership with the whole of civil society as well as internal and external partners. The I-
PRSP serves as an organizing theme and guide for actions to be taken at different phases
of the process. In addition, the strategies developed in the I-PRSP are articulated around
three pillars, namely (i) restoration and consolidation of peace; (ii) macroeconomic
stabilization and getting pro-poor growth going; and (iii) community dynamics.
2.    The I-PRSP proposes several approaches to mobilize the receipts needed to
finance its actions; these actions include more efficient mobilization of tax and customs
receipts, control over expenditures and increased quality thereof, reform of financial
administrations of the state and reinforcement of the related administrations. The
assistance of the international community, in particular through the HIPC Initiative will
support these domestic efforts.
3.    Our strategy has several phases.
4.    The first phase of the reforms, which is one of stabilization, has already given rise
to encouraging results, particularly as regards control of public expenditure and inflation.
The Government is constructing the second phase around two principal themes: (i) peace
and good governance, and (ii) good macroeconomic management which is needed in
order to pave the way for durable growth. Starting from this basis, the program's
objective is to reconstruct a well-performing public sector and a private sector that will
serve as motor for pro-poor growth.
5.    The second phase will depend on the capacity of the country to mobilize fresh
capital via the opening of the economy to the rest of the world, and on the efforts that will
be made to mobilize domestic savings.
PEACE AND GOOD GOVERNANCE
6.    The pillar of good governance comprises four priority themes, namely (a)
restoration and consolidation of internal peace; (b) care for the victims of conflicts; (c)
stability on Congo's borders and the promotion of good relations with neighboring



40
countries; and (d) the active participation of communities, through good governance, in
the design, execution and auditing of decisions. No sustainable growth or development is
possible without peace and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Restoring and consolidating peace is the core theme in that it affects medium and long-
term performance of the other PRSP themes.
7.    Concerning the victims of conflicts, the Government has responded by taking two
types of demobilization and reintegration measures (Decree Law N 0066 of June 9,
2000). To address this poverty exacerbated by conflicts, the Government plans to launch
a post-conflict reconstruction and economic recovery program, as an essential
accompaniment to the peace process. For this program, the government works closely
with the international community (through the MDRP) in the execution of a strategy with
a regional basis
8.    Good governance has public and private components. Improving public sector
governance and reducing corruption are the principal objectives of government policy.
The key steps are as follows:
*  Preparation of a code of conduct for all public servants, with a view to
implementing it by September 2002.
*  Preparation of an omnibus law on corruption and related offences, including the
creation of an anticorruption commission
* Realization in August, of a workshop on governance and anticorruption which
will lead to the preparation and adoption of a global governance and
anticorruption strategy, including a related action plan, before end-December
2002;
  Creation before end-December 2002 of an anticorruption commission.
9.    Improving the legal judicial and regulatory framework for the development of the
private sector is also a priority for the government's development policy. A law creating
commercial tribunals was promulgated in July 2001, and they should be fully operational
as of July 2002. A new investment code was promulgated in February 2002. Concerning
other operations under way, the revision of the Labor Code began in September 2001 and
will be terminated by December 2002. The new mining code was adopted by the
Parliament in early May 2002. The preparation of the new mining Cadastre and Mining
Regulations began in April 2002 and the related texts will be published by October 2002.
The elaboration of the Forestry Code and its application decrees will begin in May 2002
and will be finished in October 2002.
10.   The government accords a very high priority to reinforcing public expenditure
management. This is essential for good governance and the improvement of the
efficiency of public services. The following steps are foreseen in the short run in this
regard:
Continue efforts begun in July 2001 to improve public expenditure management,
in collaboration with the IMF and the World Bank;



41
* Conduct a review of public expenditures as a contribution to the preparation of
2003 Budget Law and the expenditure programs to be financed with savings from
the debt relief resulting from the Enhanced HIPC Initiative, from May to
September 2002;
* Establish and put in place the fiduciary arrangements for the execution and the
monitoring of expenditures financed by HIPC savings;
* Improve monitoring and oversight of public expenditures;
* Reinforce internal and external audit functions (Inspection Generale des Finances
and Cour des comptes);
Name independent observers to public procurement commissions; and
Undertake an independent audit of government accounts for 2002 (and thereafter)
by international auditors during 2003.
11.   Improving and consolidating the institutional framework for popular governance
is a prior condition for all categories of interventions which could be envisaged in this
domain because popular ownership maximizes the chances of success of later actions The
actions to be undertaken are described in the I-PRSP.
12.   In the short run, the highest priority is given to initiatives that are operating in
income-generating sectors such as food and agriculture, functional literacy and education,
health and cleaning up the environment. The basic idea is that the strategies would be
conceived, put into operation and monitored by the communities themselves, and we
support and encourage the replication of the best such initiatives.
STABILITY AND MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
13.   The establishment of the Augmented Interim Program (AIP) has permitted
government to stabilize the macroeconomic situation. After a deterioration of the
situation during the last four years (1997-2000), with a fall in GDP averaging 5.5 percent
per year and a hyperinflation at an annualized rate of 635.1 percent during the period
January-May 2001, the efforts undertaken by government and the BCC in the context of
the AIP, monitored by IMF staff, and which covered the period June 2001 -March 2002
has enabled us to reduce the rate of increase of the money supply to 102.1 percent
between December 2000 and December 2001. The effects of this policy have been to
reduce the rate of inflation. This attained a monthly rate of 0.74 percent between June and
December 2001 (that is an annualized rate of 9.25 percent) as compared to a rate of 18
percent per month in the first five months of 2001. The annual inflation rate, calculated at
end-December 2001 on the basis of the consumer price index of the Central Bank, was
estimated at 135.1 percent as against 511.2 percent in 2000.
14.   As regards public finances, program execution has resulted in a significant
improvement in budget procedures (expenditures) and an increase in the resources of the
State. Thus, budgetary receipts increased from 4.5 to 5.9 percent of GDP between 2000
and 2001. The primary balance (cash basis) changed from a deficit of 3.5 percent of GDP
in 2000 to a surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP in 2001.



42
15.   Concerning the exchange rate, it settled at 311.5 FC to the US dollar at end-
December 2001, as against 313.5 FC at end-May when exchange rates were unified. This
shows a relative stability of the Congolese Franc.
16.   To stabilize the economy, the government has undertaken a series of actions:
Public Finances:
* Rehabilitation of budgetary and accounting procedures via the utilization of
commitmnent vouchers (bons d'engagement) for expenses on goods and services
and strict compliance with payment order procedures (phase d'ordonnancement)
under the control of the Treasury Directorate;
* Budget execution of the budget on a cash basis based on the cash-flow plan;
* Launching of a study to verify internal arrears, on the one hand, among public
enterprises and, on the other hand, between public enterprises and the state;
* Creation of chambers of compensation for receipts and expenditures;
* Establishment of a tax and customs reform commission;
* Suppression of tax credits;
*  Suppression of revenue stamps as proof of payment of taxes and duties owed to
the Treasury and reinforcement of the role of banks in the collection of said taxes
and duties;
Monetary and financial sector
* Liberalization of interest rates;
* Audits of commercial banks;
* Continuation of the restructuring of the banking system;
* Use of Certificates of Deposits as a Treasury financing instrument;
*  Creation of a specialized commission to permanently solve the primary liquidity
crisis in the banking system;
* Audit of the Central Bank of Congo;
* Promulgation of the Banking Law and the law on cooperative savings and credit
institutions;
External Sector:
* Liberalization of the foreign exchange market;
* Adoption of a floating exchange rate system;
* Publication of new foreign exchange regulations
*  Signature of new exchange agreement among the different participants in the
foreign exchange market;
* Institution of market-based modalities for the determination of exchange rates.
Commerce and Industry:
* Liberalization of petroleum prices;
* Elimination of the trading monopoly in precious stones;
* Liberalization of prices of goods and services, with the exception of public
transport, water and electricity;



43
Economic management:
* Reinforcement of the Inter-ministerial Committee for Economic and Financial
Management (ECOFIN);
* Creation of the National Secretariat for Capacity Building (SENAREC);
* Promulgation of a Law granting independence to the Central Bank of Congo,
following its second reading by Parliament in April 2002;
* Promulgation of a new investment Codes;
* Preparation of a specialized committee in charge in monitoring the execution of
the economic reform program;
* Creation of a Coordination Bureau (BCeCo) responsible for managing funds
programmed to finance social and economic projects;
* Preparation of a reform of the public enterprise sector;
* Reinforcement of the capacity of the Public Administration.
Cooperation:
Creation of a Consulting Group to coordinate the efforts to mobilize US$ 1.5
million needed to finance the govermnent's Emergency Program, with support
from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
17.   At the beginning of May 2002, the legal instruments granting independence to the
Central Bank, and requiring that all payments made by the Central Bank have received
prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance had been sent to publication.
18.   The primary objective of the Government's Economic Recovery Program is to
arrest further deterioration of macroeconomic disequilibria by controlling inflation,
returning to normal budget procedures and liberalizing the economy. The program is built
around the objective of reducing inflation to 8 percent per year in 2003 and 5 percent in
2004. To do this, the government intends, in the short run, to maintain very tight control
over public finance. Specific actions to this end include centralizing the responsibility for
the issuance of payment orders; setting of monthly targets for the main Financial
Authorities (Regies Financieres); suppression of earmarking of certain categories of
taxes; assigning a larger role to commercial banks in the collection of State receipts;
computerization of tax receipt and expenditure management mechanisms; establishment
of specialized government revenue collection units for large payers, reduction of the
number of internal taxes and customs duties; improvement of budget allocation and
management procedures that comply fully with conventional budgetary execution
procedures; and the establishment of a monthly cash flow plan.
EXTERNAL DEBT AND TRADE
19.   The DRC is currently classified as a highly indebted country with a stock of
external debt of about US$ 13 billion as of December 31, 2001. Scheduled debt service
amounts to about 800 percent of exports of goods and services. For a very long time, the
net flow of external payments has remained negative notwithstanding multiple
rescheduling obtained from the Paris Club during the years 1975-1989.



44
20.    Following suspension of international financial cooperation in 1990 on the part of
its bilateral and multilateral partners, DRC stopped servicing external debt from 1992
onwards. Since then, the country has been on the blacklist of the international financial
community. As a result, the flow of external aid and foreign investment has continually
declined. Since 1998, the country has also had to deal with civil war that has completely
destroyed its economy, leading to increased poverty and diplomatic isolation.
21.    The government is now formally engaged in regularizing its relations with the
international financial community. Given its huge external debt arrears (preponderantly
to bilateral and multilateral creditors) and the current economic climate, the DRC is
soliciting exceptional treatment of its external debt from the international financial
community. The projections made, for example, on the basis of a combination of the
HIPC mechanism together with a Paris Club rescheduling on Naples terms, show that
these alone will not suffice to resolve the problem of arrears and permit the country to
restore sustainable growth.
Reform of Government-Owned Enterprises
22.    Conscious of the necessity for a public/private partnership to get the economy
moving again, the government is elaborating a strategy for the reform of the public
enterprise sector. The objectives of this reform are: (a) to ensure that public services are
supplied in a sustainable manner and on a commercial basis; (b) to reduce budget
pressures caused by deficient management of public enterprises; and finally (c) to attract
job-creating investments.
23.   In this spirit, preparatory works to date have included the production of audits of
public enterprises that have identified the main problems linked to the governance of
these enterprises. The Presidency has also organized a workshop on reform in September
2001. Finally, the Steering Committee for the reform of the public enterprise sector will
be soon created by Presidential Decree. The role of this Committee is to prepare and
execute the reform in particular through a diagnosis of all enterprises via a financial and
operational audit.
24.    Key steps are as follows: (a) establishment of sectoral groups with responsibility
for the strategic aspects of the reform; (b) the definition of a timetable identifying the
stages of restructuring or divestiture; and (c) the preparation of the key laws to be
submitted to Parliament.'
25.   In parallel, it will be important to launch an audit for Public domestic debt as well
as cross debts of public enterprises, of which the first results will be known in the first
semester of 2003. In this context, the first steps toward reform of public enterprises will
be taken during this first semester of 2003.
I.
' Including the framework law on public enterprises, the law on divestiture, and key sectoral laws.



45
PRIVATE SECTOR RECOVERY AND CIVIL SOCIETY
26.   The problem of employment has become acute since DRC entered the current
period of economic crisis and armed conflict. To remedy this situation, the government
intends to promote durable employment creation and income generation. In particular, the
government has taken several measures aiming at revising the fiscal regime for
enterprises, incentives for development of SMEs, in order to encourage firms to migrate
from the informal to the formal sector. Investment facilitation was also an important
consideration in the promulgation of the investment code, the creation of the mining code
and the creation of commercial courts. However, this will not meet with success without
the creation of an appropriate environment for private sector development through the
installation of regular consultations between the Government and the Federation of
Congolese Enterprises (FEC) as well as other professional organizations.
Reform of the financial sector
27.   The Government has already defined a draft strategy for restructuring the
financial sector (COREBAC, "Global Framework for Restructuring the Congolese
Financial System") which has been presented to the World Bank and the Intemational
Monetary Fund). This global strategy seeks as its objectives: (i) cleaning up and
rehabilitation of the banking and financials system (banks, insurance companies, micro-
finance institutions, and specialized financial institutions), (ii) improving the
management capacity of credit establishments, (iii) reinforcement of banking supervision,
and (iv) improvement of the banking, regulatory, financial and legal environment.
28.   In the context of this strategy, the government has already decided in April 2002
to limit its shares in bank capital to less than 20 percent, and to give up all management
powers. Furthermore we have identified short medium and long-term actions.
29.   As of today, the Government has already decided the first phase of its actions
which are as follows:
 The creation of the Congolese Banking System Restructuring Committee
(COREBAC) (1998);
* The stabilization of the macroeconomic framework (May 2001 onwards);
* Promulgation of laws on the activities and supervision of credit establishments as
well as the dispositions applicable to savings and credit cooperatives (March
2002);
* The liquidation of four private banks (ATB, BANCOR, BANCOC and COBAC)
between 1998 and today;
* The negotiation and monitoring of the implementation of three commercial banks
(BCDC, UBC, and BIC) and one specialized financial institution (SOFIDE) in the
context of the special regime which grants them special institutional dispensations
(since 1999);
* A first round of audits of four commercial banks with assistance from the World
Bank (2000);
Obligatory institution of internal control systems in credit establishments (1999).



46
30.   The second phase in the restructuring of the financial sector will proceed from
clean-up to stabilization and restructuring of that part which is financially sound, in
particular through the following actions and stages: (i) strengthening and improving
efficiency of the Central Bank; (ii) financial and operational audits of all banks, including
those already audited, including the valuation and certification of the balance sheets of
public banks, including (social) obligations to employees, of which the terms of reference
have to be finalized and sent to BCECO, and (iii) the establishment of a new list of banks
to place in liquidation, restructure or privatized. The accounting regime for banks will be
harmonized and their fiscal regime revised, prudential norms will be brought into line
with international standards, the liquidation of four private banks, NBK, and BCA will be
continued. BCCE's operating license for will be withdrawn, and it will be liquidated or
privatized.
31.   In May 2002 a law was published granting full independence to the Central Bank
of Congo. Moreover, a financial and organizational audit of the Central bank, for which
contract has been concluded an international auditing company began in April 2002. An
action plan will be prepared on the basis of the results of the audit.
32.   The process will be completed by the elaboration of a restructuring plan, if
necessary, for each bank that is considered viable.
The Natural Resources Sector
The Mining sector
33.   The government is currently reforming the legal and regulatory framework of the
mining sector. A new mining code has been elaborated since 1998 and was submitted to
Parliament in April 2002. The government has declared a moratorium on new mining
concessions while awaiting the adoption of the new mining code. Next steps up to the end
of December 2002 are as follows:
*  Promulgation of the new mining code;
* Preparation and adoption of new mining regulations;
*  Creation of a commission to validate mining titles;
*  Publication of a complete list of mining titles granted since 1995;
* Publication of a complete list of mining titles that have been confirmed, contested or
abandoned;
*  Establish by decree a new mining cadastre as an administratively and financially
autonomous agency.
34.   In the mining sector, the diamond purchasing monopoly has been abolished and
the sector liberalized. Before the end of 2002, exporters from DRC will be able to rely on
the Kimberly Agreement on conflict diamonds in order to be able to increase the value of
exported stones.
35.   GECAMINES was for a long time the most important producer and exporter in
DRC. However, the financial situation of the company is now extremely grave, and may
be summarized by the following key figures: (i) very high indebtedness amounting to



47
about US$ 1.3 billion, of which about US$ 100 million is on account of taxes; (ii)
cumulative operating losses of more than US$ 2 billion since 1990 and US$ 132 million
in 2001 alone, leading to negative net worth of more than US$ 600 million in 2001; (iii)
outdated equipment and inappropriate technologies; (iv) costs of production that are 2-4
time greater than international averages; (v) excessively large and aging workforce
(23,400 employees); (vi) salary arrears of more than 12 months for Congolese personnel
and 28 months for expatriates; (vii) fiscal burden of over US$ 100 million; and (viii)
frequent legal disputes and seizure of the company's products while en route to
customers. Current operations of GECAMINES entail significant loss of value and have a
depressing effect on the economy of the province of Katanga. Forecasts for the current
year suggest that it remains highly unlikely that the company will be able to meet its
salary obligations.
36.   In order to promote the recovery of the mining sector, the government is
proposing the following actions:
* Creation of a Permanent Committee within the Presidency [original states "an
Interministerial Committee", changed in negotiations] for the restructuring of
GECAMINES;
* Prepare and undertake a detailed restructuring study of GECAMINES;
* Prepare a restructuring strategy and implementation plan on the basis of the study;
* Prepare and implement a voluntary departure program in order to reduce
overstaffing.
37.   The current situation of GECAMINES requires urgent remedial actions that could
be undertaken in advance of the above-mentioned study. The company today is unable to
meet its wage and salary obligations and a significant number of employees would be
prepared to leave the company without a significant adverse impact on the company's
activities. The government hereby requests World Bank support for the voluntary
departure program through the proposed Economic Recovery Credit as a first step.
The Forestry Sector
38.   The DRC includes about 190 million hectares of forest and tree covered savanna.
Existing parks and conservation zones cover more than 18 million hectares, that is about
8 percent of the national territory. Permanent production forests (capable of producing
both ligneous and non-ligneous products) are estimated at about 60 million hectares. The
forest surface area capable of producing multiples services for the global environment on
a sustainable basis is even greater.
39.   The forest is the principal source of non-agricultural incomes, animal and
vegetable protein, for all of DRC. Officially, wood production today is 80,000 cubic
meters per year, compared to a potential of 6 million cubic meters per year. Fiscal
revenues in the form of duties and taxes amounted to US$ 100,000 in 2001. However,
they could attain several hundred million dollars if the right to exploit of production
forests were to be adjudicated through market mechanisms, it being understood that



48
forest management would be done according to plans that would guarantee their
sustainability and permanence.
40.   A sector strategy and policy are being prepared. Their basic principles are as
follows: (a) overall exploitation of the social, economic and ecological dimensions of
forests, including integrated management of plant and wildlife, and environmental
services; (b) creation of partnerships for the conservation of the biodiversity heritage, and
the production of environmental services with equitable sharing of related costs and
benefits; (d) retrocession to local communities of a part of the revenues resulting from
commercial forest exploitation; (e) establishment of a regime for community forestry
parallel to that for industrial forestry development; (f) protection of wildlife; and (g)
across-the-board extension of management plans for production forests, and enlargement
of the conservation network to 15 percent of the national territory. To attract responsible
national and foreign private investment to the forestry sector, the government is currently
elaborating a process of (a) a transparent, competitive and equitable selection of forestry
operators, (b) enforcement of laws and (c) the rigorous enforcement of penalties.
41.   Three major instruments underpin the new forestry strategy and policy:
* A clear definition of the existing situation including the establishment of an up to
date inventory of existing forest exploitation rights and the annulment of rights that
had been illegally obtained;
*  Reforn of the legal and regulatory framework: the new forestry law, which is in the
final stage of preparation, is the lynchpin of this reform. It aims, inter alia, at the
generalization of management plans, the creation of a framework for community
forestry; the distribution to local communities of 30 percent of the area tax levied on
forestry concessions, the transparent and competitive selection of forestry operators
and reform of forestry taxation;
* The reinforcement of national institutions: a thorough institutional review will be
undertaken in order to prepare the specific modalities of national institutional
reforms and strengthening concerning the forestry sector and nature conservation.
This reform has been included in the Emergency Multisectoral Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Project of the World Bank.
42.   Certain elements of the strategy have already begun to be applied, in particular:
* Clarification of exploitation rights: (a) abrogation of contracts which have been
rendered null and void because of non-compliance with the law; (b) giving notice of
suspension of contracts pertaining to operations in occupied zones and in other cases
where the operator is unable to meet contractual obligations; and (c) preparation of a
complete list of valid contracts, those which have been abrogated, and those which
are in dispute;
*  An increase in the annual area fee on forestry contracts from US$ 0.000143 to US$
0.5 per hectare in order to give a more appropriate value to forestry resources, and
indirectly to discourage land speculation in the forestry domain;
* A moratorium on all new forestry allocations until the application of the new rules
of adjudication of exploitation rights in the context of the new forestry law.



49
43.   Next steps to attain before the end of 2002 include the publication of the new
forestry code.
44.   Finally the government has prepared a priority action plan in collaboration with
the World Bank, which describes the principal steps to be undertaken in the area of
forestry reform beyond the period covered by the proposed Economic Recovery Credit.
This action plan is included as an Annex to the present letter.
Signed in Kinshasa May 11, 2002
/signed/ Matungulu Mbuyamu Ilankir
Minister of Economy, Finances and Budget



50
Summary Table of the Forestry Component of the ERC
Initial Multi-Sector Tranche
Before Board Presentation
(by May 16^ 2002)
* Moratorium decreed on all new allocation, extension or renewal (authorization,
letter and guarantee) pending definition of new rules of adjudication.
*  MINAFFET decree with agreement by ECOFIN - by May 16, 2002.
This measure is essentialfor avoiding attribution of new operating titles before the
implementation of the new law and a new transparent and competitive system of
attributing concessions. The decree has already been presentedfor discussion by
ECOFIN.
* Implement an increase on the area fee (tax) which will discourage speculation.
* MINAFFET decree countersigned by MINEFI - done.
* Circular by MINAFFET specifying 2002 rules of application - May 2002.
Signed on April 21, this decree raises the area fee to US$0.5 per hectare per year.
Still to do: a circular indicating conditions of application for the current year,
specifying a cutoff date for payment of end-July 2002 with prorated payments
permitted and automatic cancellation of contract in case offailure to comply.
* Examine all existing operating contracts (authorization for prospecting, letters
of intention, guarantees of equipment): (i) notify annulment of contracts not in
compliance; (ii) send letters of suspension to companies in occupied zones and
other companies prevented in the past from complying with their contractual
obligations; and (iii) prepare a complete list of validated, annulled, suspended or
contested contracts by the end of May 2002.
Documents to be provided:
* Analytical table of existing contracts - May 15
* MINAFFET Ministerial decrees of annulment and Letters of suspension sent to
concerned companies and individual operators - May 15
* This operation is ongoing To date, 143 contracts (23.4 million hectares) have been
recovered The analysis of 118 contracts remains ongoing This condition does not
necessarily require the resolution of contested cases or analysis in depth of the
contracts situated in occupied zones for which resolution will require additional
information. In this case, it will be sufficient to notify of the suspension with an
indication of the time limit granted to put the situation in order.
Floating Forestry Tranche (by October 2002)
* Forestry code submitted for the approval of Parliament (law) or President (decree-
law)
* Approval by ECOFIN and transmission to Parliament or President - estimated date: ?
The draft forestry code has been submitted to ECOFIN. It could be studied by
Parliament during its current session, adopted as a decree-law ifparliament is out of
session, or studied during the next session in October. The minutes of the
negotiations should specify that the choice of either law or decree-law is equivalent
for establishing conditionality.



REPUBLIQUE DEMOCRATIQUE DU CONGO
MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE. FINANCES ET BUDGET
Kinshasa, le 1    A[1 hA! ?
N0Q639 /CAB/MlIN/ECO-FIN&8UD/biz/2O02
A Monsieur le President du Groupe
de la Banque Mondiale
1818 H Street NW
WASHINGTON D.C. 20433
USA
Monsieur le Pr6sident,
En depit de toutes ses immenses ressources humaines et de sous-sol, la ROC
est classee parmi les pays les plus pauvres du monde. Pendant plus de trente ans, le
pays a ete dlrig6 par un pouvoir hautement centralise. Le passage a un Etat
democratique a ete difficile depuis lan 1990. L'instabilit6 institutionnelle, (es pillages
et les conflits interethniques qui en ont resulte ont plongd la RDC dans une crise
multiforme dont l'un des effets est l'aggravation de la pauvretd. L'accumulation des
arrieres des paiements sur la dette multilat6rale et bilat6rale a amend les bailleurs et
creanders au debut des annees 1990 a suspendre leur cooperation avec notre pays,
avec des effets nefastes sur le bien-tre des populations congolalses. Par ailleurs, la
persistance de la crise dconomique et institutionnelle est exacerbde par un violent
conflit arme' sur le sol congolais qui conna?t la participation de plusieurs mouvements
rebelles et des armees etrangeres de sept Etats africains, et la partition de notre
territoire national.
Le coOt konomlque, social, politique et environnemental de ce conflit est tr&s
eleve. Plus de trois millions de vies humaines ont ete perdues. Le nombre de
personnes deplacees est estime' A pr8s de quatre millions dans la sous-region et
quelques 10.000 a 15.000 enfants sont utilises comme soldats. L'ampleur et la
complexit: du conflit ont mis a dure epreuve ia stabilitt institutionnelle et les
infrastructures socio-6conomiques de base. Elle menace l'int6grltd territoriale de la
RDC et risque d'embraser toute la sous-region.
Depuis le premier trimestre de l'an 2001, notre gouvernement s'est
r6solument engage A restaurer la paix et reconstruire un Etat moderne, a resorber
les d&squilibres macroannomiques et relancer la croissance, et a faire face aux
besoins urgents crees par les conflits et les catastrophes naturelles. Cctte volowte a
resu un echo favorable aupres de nos partenaires.-4
zGOO                               3auI                  T9CZO99 CtZ IYA 99:C DM ZO 9O/PT



2
La volonte de restaurer la paix et de reconstruire l'Etat s'est exprlmee d'abord
par son soutien aux Accords de Lusaka, et ensuite par la mise en ceuvre d'un accord
de cessez-le-feu (Rdsolution du Conseil de S6curitd n 1341), et son renforcement
par les troupes de la Mission de l'Organisation des Nations-Unies au Congo. Sur le
plan politique, nous sommes heureux de constater que nos efforts pour renforcer le
processus de paix et le dialogue inter-congolais qui ont eu lieu en avril 2002 A Sun
City ont eu des r6sultats positifs et encourageants. L'accord conclu jette les bases de
la mise en place d'un gouvemement de transition.
En matiere de poltique economique et sociale, le document de reference du
Gouvemement est le DSRP interimaire (DSRP-I). Celul-ci est l'expression de la
volonte du gouvemement congolais d'engager un processus de renaissance de la vie
nationale, d'une mani6re participative et durable avec la participation de l'ensemble
de la population et des partenaires interieurs et exterieurs du pays. II sert de cadre
organisateur et de fil conducteur aux actions a prendre dans chacune des phases du
processus. Aussi, les strategies du document interimaire s'articulent-t-elles autour de
trois piliers, a savoir: (i) le pilier de la restauration et de la consolidation de la paix;
(ii) le pilier de la stabilisation macroeconomique et de la relance de la croissance pro-
pauvre; et (iii) le pilier de la dynamique communautaire. Le DSRP-I vous a k6
transmis separement.
Notre strat6gie de relance de la croissance comporte plusieurs phases.
La premiere phase des reformes, qui est une phase de stabilisation, a deja
donne, notamment dans le domaine de la maitrise des d4penses publiques et du
controle de I'inflation, des resultats encourageants. Ces resultats viennent renforcer
les quelques projets et programmes que le gouvemement avait dvia mis en place
avec le concours de la Banque Mondiale, des agences des Nations Unies et des
autres partenaires bilat6raux, aux fins d'attenuer tant soit peu, la d6t6rioration de la
situation socio-economique et I'aggravation de la pauvrete. La poursuite des efforts
en cours et la consolidation des resultats acquis permettront au pays de passer de la
phase de stabilisation (2001-2002) 3 une phase de relance. Ce n'est qu'aprks celle-ci
qu'interviendra la phase de la reconstruction et de la relance d'une croissance
durable et pro-pauvre.
En outre, le gouvernement s'est engag6 a entreprendre, avec le concours de
la communautb intemationale, un certain nombre d'actions du PrngrafrTie
Interimaire Renforce, effectue en collaboration avec le Fonds monOtaire international
et la Banque mondiale a travers le Programme Multisectorel de Rehabilitation et de
Reconstruction convenu avec les services de cette derniere. L'Union Europeenne
vient de rela cer sa cooperation dont l'objectif primordial est la reduction de la
pauvrete'
cN .1...
COO t               Dt .NIdOYXIW                    18CZ089 CI*Z Ay.    8SC ZOv  SO /oa



3
Nous restons convaincus que seul un programme de stabilisation et
d'ajustement A moyen terme permettra a la Republique DNmocratique du Congo
d'accdder a l'Initiative PPTE, de mieux faire face aux enormes besoins que lui
Imposent le retour aux principaux dquilIbres macroeconomiques, la reconstruction et
Ids rehabilitations necessaires, le respect des engagements vis a vis de ses principaux
partenaires.
A cet effet, le Gouvernement de la R6publique Democratique du Congo a
I'honneur de vous soumettre la prdsente lettre de politique de developpement pour
2002-2003. Celle-ci, qui s'inscrtt dans notre projet A long terme (DSRP), vous est
soumise A I'appui d'une demande de crddit de relance economique pour un montant
de 360,4 millions de DTS en faveur de notre pays.
Nous emettons le vceux que l'examen de ce dossier rencontre un avis
favorable du Groupe de la Banque mondiale.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President, 1expression de ma haute
considration.
-a                  oT                0 N GULtJ  , UM/tT
itOOfP                            OUH .NIJO3NIW         TSeZ088 etZ xvi eS:cr uv  ZO 9O/~T



REPUBLIQUE DEMOCRATIQUE DU CONGO
LE GOUVERNEMENT
DU GOUVERNEMENT DE LA
RIEPUBLIQUE DEMOCRATIQUE DU CONGO
POUR 2002-2003
INTRODUCTION
1. Le document de rdf6Tence du gouvernement est le DSRP intnrimaire (DSRP-I); II
cst 1'expression de la volont6 du gouvernemcnt congolais d'engager A ce
processus de renaissance, d'une maniere participative et durable, I'ensemble dc la
population nationale et les partenaires interieurs et ext6rieurs. 11 sert de cadre
organisateur et de fll conducteur aux actions & prendre dans chacune des phases du
processus. Aussi, les strategies du document intrimaire s'articulent-t-elles autour
de trois piliers, a savoir: (i) le pilier de la restauration et de la consolidation de la
paix; (ii) le pilier de la stabilisation macro6conomique et de la relance de la
croissance pro-pauvre ; et (iii) le pilier de la dynamique communautaire.
2. Le DSRP-I propose des pistes pour la mobilisation des ressources devant servir au
financement des actions retenues ; ces actions couvrent une mobilisation plus
efficace des recettes fiscales et douanieres, la maitrise et l'axn6lioration de la
qualit6 des ddpenses publiques, la rdforme des Regies fmanci6res de l'Etat et le
renforcement des capacit6s au sein des administrations concern6es. Le concours
de la communautd internationale, notamment A travers l'initiafive d'appui aux
pays pauvres tres endettes (PPTE), viendra en appui i ces efforts intemes.
3. Notre strateLgi de relance s'articule autour dc plusicurs phases.
4.  La premiare phase, qui est une phase de stabilisation des reformes, a deja donn6,
notammcnt dans le domainc de Ia mitrise des ddpenses publiques ct du contr8le
de l'inflation, des r6sultats encourageants. Le Gouvernement construit son
programme de deuxi6me phase sur dcux voliets principaux, A savoir la paix et la
bonne gouvernance et la bonne gestion macro6conomique afin de preparer la voic
pour une croissance durable. A partir de cette base, le programme a comme cible
la relance d'un secteur public performnant et d'un secteur priv6 moteur d'une
croissance pro-pauvre>
DaS  NIdOOaNIN        T8CZ088 Cg YVa 00: OT ZV  gO SO/tT



2
5. La deuxieme phase est tributaire de la capacitfe du pays A mobiliser les capitaux
frais par I'ouverture de l'conomie au monde exterieur, et de l'effort qui sera
d6ployd dans la mobilisation de l'6pargne nationale.
LA PAIX ET LA BONNE GOUVERNANCE
6. Le pilier de la paix et de la bonne gouvernance comprend quatre axes prioritaires
& savoir :a) la restauration et consolidation de la paix int6rieure; b) la prise cn
charge des victimes des conflits: c) la stabilite aux fronticres et la promotion des
relations de bon voisinage. et d) la participation active des populations par la
bonne gouvernance A la conception des d6cisions ainsi qu'au suivi et contr6lc de
leur execution. Sans la paix, le respect des droits humains et des libertes
fondamentales, aucwme croissance durable, aucun d6veloppement n'est possible.
La restauration et la consolidation de la paix est l'axe le plus imporlant en ce qu'il
conditionne la performanceA nnoyen et long terme des autres axes du DSRP.
7. En ce qui concerne les victimes des conflits, le gouvernement a pris deux
categories de mesures dc d6mobilisation et de reinsertion (DI:e-Loi n0066 du
9 juin 2000). Pour mieux lutter contre la pauvrete aggrav6e par les recents
conflits, le Gouvernement envisage la mise en place d'un programmc post-conflit
pour la d6mobilisation, le d6sarmement, la r6insertion, la relance 6conomique et
la reconstruction. Pour cc programme, Io gouvernement travaille etroitement avec
la conununautd internationalc (MDRP) dans la mise en c2uvre d'une strategie a
dimension regionale.
8. La bonne gouvemance a des composantes publiques et priv6es. Ameliorer la
gouvernance du secteur public et rdduire la corruption sont des objectif&
principaux de la politique du gouvernement. Les 6tapcs en sont les suivantes:
Preparation d'un Code de Conduite pour tous les fonctionnaires en vue de son
adoption avant fin septembre 2002;
* Prparation et promulgation d'une loi 4< omnibus >) au sujet des pratiques de
corruption et aux autres dWlits s'y rattachant, y compris la creation d'une
commission anti-corruption;
Realisation au mois d'aolit, d'un atelier sur la gouvenmance et l'anti-corruption
qui mbnera A la preparation et l'adoption d'une strat6gie globale de
gouvernance/ anti-corruption, y compris un plan d'action avant fin
d6cembre 2002;
* Creation avant fin d6cembre 2002 d'une commission anti-corruption,(
900g &N                           frd NIdOoaNi1         T960899 Ctg Vd TO:tT  Zo go 0/t



3
9.  Am6liorer le cadre 16gal, judiciaire et reglementaire pour le ddveloppement du
secteur priv6 est 6galement une priorite de la politique en developpement du
gouvernemcnt. Une loi creant les tribunaux conmerciaux a 6te promulgu6e en
juillet 2001 ; Ces tribunaux devraient ere pleinement fonctionnels a compter de
juillet 2002. Un nouveau Code des Investissements a ete promulgu6 en fevrier
2002. En ce qui concerne Ics oprations en oours, la r4vision du Code de Travail a
commence en scptembre 2001 et sera terminE d'ici decembre 2002. Le nouveau
codc minier sera adoptE par le Parlement en ce mois de mnai. L'Elaboration du
nouveau cadastre minier et du nouveau r6glement minier a debute en avril 2002 et
les textes y affErant seront ptibliEs d'ici octobre 2002. L'elaboration au Code
Forestier et des textes d'application s'y rattachant debutera en mai 2002 pour se
terminer d'ici a octobrc 2002.
10. Le gouvernement accorde une tres haute priorite au renforcement de la gestion
des d6penses publiques. Celle-ci est essentielle pour la bonne goulvernance et A
I'amelioratdon de I'efficacitE des scrices publics. Les Etapes prevues dans
l'inmediat sont les suivantes:
Continuer d'ameliorer la gestion des depenses publiques cn collaboration avec
le Fonds monetaire international et la Banque Mondiale, effort qui a commence
en juillet 2001;
* Conduire une revule des depenses publiques comme contribution   i la
preparation de la loi de Budget 2003 et le programme des ddpenses du
programme PPTE de mai a septembre 2002;
*ttablir et mettre en oeuvre des arrangements fiduciaires pour l'ex6cution et le
suivi des dEpenses fimancees par le PPTE;
AmEliorer le controle des dEpenses publiques;
. Renforcer les fonctions d'audit interne et externe (Inspection GEnErale des
Finances et Cour des Comptes);
. Nommer des observateurs independants dans les commissions des marches
publics: et
. Faire effectuer un audit independant des comptes 2002 (et suite) par des
vErificatcurs intemationaux dans le courant de 2003.
11. Ameliorer et consolider le cadre institutionnel de gouvernance a la base est un
prealable & toutes les interventions qui pourraient etre envisagees dans cc domaine
parce qu'il permet de maximiser les chances de reussite de tous les appuis
ultErieurs. Les actions engagees sont dEcritesc dans le DSRP-I.
12. A court terme, la plus haute priorite est accordee aux initiatives qui operent dans
les secteurs generateurs de revenus tels que I'alimentation et I'agriculture,
I'alphab6tisation fonctionnelle et l'dducation, la santd et I'assainissement du milieu.
L'id6e de base est que les strategies elles-nm8mes soient con9ues, mises en ceuvres
et suivies par les communautEs locales; ct nous soutenons et encourageons les
meilleures inltiatives;<
LOO0 P                            ocn  MM iiiEN          ioYre "   xvi wo:'1 g  z  .



4
STABILITE ET GESTION MACROECONOMIQUE
13. La mise en place du Programme Interimaire Rcnforc6 (PIR) a pennis au
gouvernement de stabiliser la situation macrocconomique. Apres une degradation
dc la situation au cours des quatre demi&res ann6es (1997-2000) avec une baisse
du PIB de 5,5 % par an, en moyenne, et une hyper-inflation A un taux mnualis6 de
635,1 % durant la peiode janvier-mai 2001, 1'effort enhrepris par Ic gouvenement
et la BCC dans le cadre du PIR, suivi par les services du FMI, et qui a couvert la
p6riode de juin 2001 a mars 2002, a permis de ramener le taux d'accroissement de
la masse mondtaire a 102,1 % entre d6cembre 2000 et decembre 2001. Les effets
de cette politique se sont traduits par un ralentissement du rythme de l'inflatiun.
Celle-ci a atteint une moyenne mensuelle de 0,74 % entre juin et decembre 2001
(soit un taux annualise de 9,25%) alors qu'elle *tail de 18 % au cours des cinq
premiers mois de 2001. Le taux d'inflation annucl, calculk a fin d6cembre 2001
sur base de l'indice des prix & la consommation de la Banque Centrale, a ete
estimn & 135,1 % contre 511,2% en 2000.
14. Sur le plan des finances publiques, 1'ex6cution du programme a permis
d'ameliorer les proc6dures budgetaires (d6penses) ct d'accrottre les ressources de
l'Etat. Aussi, les recettes budg6taircs sont passees d'une ann6e a I'autre de 4,5 %
du PIB a 5,9 %. Quant au solde primaire sur base caisse, il est passe de -3,5 % du
PI cn 2000 a 0,5 % en 2001.
15. En ce qui conceme le taux de change, il s'est 6tabli A fin decembre 2001 A 311,5
FC pour I USD. contre 313,5 FC A fin mai 2001 au moment de l'unification des
taux. Cela montre une stabilitM relative du franc congolais.
16. Pour stabiliser 1'economie, le Gouvernement a mis en ocuvrc une serie des
mesures suivantes:
ra Finances Publiques:
* Rohabilitation des procedures budg6taires et comptables par l'utilisation dos
bons d'engagement pour les d6penses des biens et services et le strict respect de
la phase d'ordonnancement sous le contr6le de la Direction du Tresor;
* Execution du budget sur base caisse suivant le plan de tr6sorerie ;
* Centralisation de toutes les recettes au comnpte gen*ral du Tr6sor a la Banque
Centrale;
* Lancement d'une etude en vue de la v&rification des arri6res int6rieurs entre
d'une part, les entreprises publiques et d'autre part, Ics entreprises publiques et
l'Etat;
* Cr6ation de deux chambres de conciliation des recettes et des depenses;
* Institution d'une commission de r6forme fiscale et douanitre>
9OaDI   a NODANIx     T8CZ088 tiZ XVd to:tT UK ZO 9O/Vt



14/05 02 MAR 15:12 FAX 243 8802381       MINECOFIN RDC
5
* Suppression des cr6dits d'impots;
* Suppression des timbres fiscaux comme preuve de paiement des droits et taxes
dus au Trcsor ct renforcement de la responsahiIite des banques dans la
perception de ces inp6ts et taxes.
o Secteur monhtaire etfinancier;
 ILib6ralisation des taux d'int&t;
* Audit des banques commerciales;
* Poursuite de la restructuration du syst6me bancaire;
R3cours aux Certificats de d6p8ts pour faire face au financeinent de l'Etat;
 Institution d'une commission pour rdsoudre durablement le problern de la crise
des liquidit6s primaires dans lc syst6me bancaire;
* Audit de la Banque Centrale du Congo;
* Promulgation de la loi bancaire et de la loi sur les coop6ratives d'epargne et de
cr6dit.
* Secteur ext&grieur:
* Lib6ralisation du march6 des changes;
* Adoption du systeme des changes flottants;
* Publication d'une nouvelle r6glementation de change;
 Signature d'une convention de change entre les diffrents acteurs du march6;
* Institution des modafit6s de d6termination des cours de change par le marche.
O Commerce et industrie -
* Lib&ralisation des prix des produits p6lroliers;
9 Elimination du monopole du commerce des matires pr6cieuses;
* Lib6ralisation des prix dcs biens et services, i I'exception de ceux du transport
en commun, de 1'eau et de 1'6lectricite
o Gestion economique:
 Creiation de la Commission LnterministdrielJe chargee du suivi des programmes
6conomiques conclus avec les Institutions de Bretton Woods et la Banque
afiicaine de developpement;
* Crcation de la Commission Interministerielle chargee du suivi de la strat6gie
nationale de lutte contre la pauvret6;
* Creation d'un Comite Technique charge du suivi des r6formnes 6conomiques;
, Cr6ation du Secretariat National pour le Renforcement des Capacit6s
(SENAREC);
* Loi consacant l'inddpendance de ja Banque Centrale du Congo promulgu6e en
mai 2002;/
6



14/05 02 MAR 15:13 FAX 243 8802381       MINECOFIN RDC                              0 004
6
Promulgation du nouveau code d'invcstissement;
Adoption par le Parlement du nouveau code minier;
Cr6ation du Bureau Central de Coordination (BceCo) charg6 de la gestion des
funds destin6s a financer les projets d'intdrOt social et economique:
Pr6paration d'une reforme des entreprises publiques;
Renforcement des capacites de l'administration publique.
o CoopOration:
Projet de cr6ation d'un Groupe Consultatif pour la Coordination de l'effort de
mobilisation de USD 1,5 milliard, necessaire au financement du programme
d'urgence du Gouvernement, avec I'appui de la Banque mondiale et du Fonds
monetaire internalioDal.
17. Au ddbut du mois de mai 2002, il a ete procede A la publication des instruments
juridiques garantissant l'inddpendance de la Banque Centrale et exigeant que tous
les paiemcnts effectues par la Banque Ccntrale re9oivent d'abord 1'approbation du
MinistUre ayant les finances dans ses attributions.
18. L'objectif prioritaire du programme de redressement elargi du Gouvernement est
d'arreter le processus de dEgradation des Equilibres macro6conomiques par la
mahIsc de l'inflation, le retour a un processus budgEtaire normal ainsi que par la
UbEralisation de 1'economic. Ce progranune a ete relaye par un programme &
moycn-terme pennettant de raunener le taux d'inflation a 8 % en 2003 et & 5 % en
2004. Pour ce faire, le Gouvernement s'engage, A court tcnne, a assurer la
maitse des finances publiques. Parmi les actions sp6cifiques envisagees, il y a
lieu de retenir le maintien d'un centre d'ordonnancement unique; la fixation des
objectifs mensuels aux Regies Financieres; la suppression des autorisations de la
pre-affectation de certaines recettes de l'Etat; le renforccment du role et de la
responsabilitc des banques commerciales dans la perception des recettes de
1'Etat; l'informatisation des circuits de perception des recettes ct d'execution des
depenses; la creation de la Direction des grandes entreprises au sein de la
Direction des imp8ts; la suppression de la multiplicite des taxes tant i l'interieur
qu'aux postcs frontaliers du pays; I'amElioration de I'allocation et la gestion
transparente des ressources budgEtaires impliquant le respect de toutes les phases
classiques de 1'exdcution du Budget et N'dtablissement d'un plan de trEsorerie
mensuel A exdcuter sur base caisse.
DETTE ET PAIEMENTS EXTE1UEURS
19. La RDC est class6e aujourd'hui parmi les pays pauvrcs tras endett6s, avec Un
stock de dette ext6rieure evaluEc A prEs de $US 13 niilliards, au 31/12/2001. Le
poids du service de la dette ext6rieure atteint actuellement 800 % des recettes
d'exportadon du pays. Pendant longtemps, les flux des paiemcnts ext6rieurs sont
demeures deficitaires, en dEpit de ultiples rEchelonnements obtenus aupr6s du
Club de Paris enatre 1975 et 19894



14/05 02 NAR 15:14 FAX 243 8802381       MINECOFIN RDC                               0O0
7
20. Suite a la suspension de la coopeation financi6re intemationale, en 1990, par ses
partenaires tant bilat6raux que multilateraux, la RDC a interrompu les paiements
au titre de sa dette ext6rieurc, a partir de 1992. Depuis lors, le pays a etd mis a
l'index par la communaute fmanciere internationale. En consequence, les flux
d'aides ext6tieures n'ont cessd de s'amenuiser en meme tomps que les
investissements prives. Depuis 1998, le pays fait face au conflit qui A fortement
ddsarticule son 6conomie et engendre une aggravation de la pauvrete et son
isolement diplomatique.
21. Le Gouvernement s'est formellement engage dans un processus de rdgularisation
de ses relations avec la communaute financi6re internationale. Compte tenu de
l'important stock d'arridrfs de la dette ext6rieure (dont une part prdpond6rante
due aux creanciers bilatmraux et multilatirmux) et du contexte economique actuel,
la RDC sollicite de la Communautd iinanci6re internationale un traitement
particulier de la question de sa dette exterieure. En effet, des projections faites,
par exemple, sur la base d'une combinaison du mecanisme PPTE avec le
rdechelonnemnent par le Club de Paris selon les termes de Naples montrent que
l'application stricte de ces mecanismes ne suffirait pas pour r6soudre le probleme
des arridr6s et engagcr le pays durablement sur la voie de la croissance.
RMforme des Entreprises du Portefeuile
22. Conscient de la n6cessitd d'un partenariat public-prive pour la relance de
1'6conomie, le Gouvernement a dlabore une strategie pour la reforme du secteur
des entreprises publiques. Les objectifs de cette reforme sont de: (a) s'assurer
que les services publics sont fourmis de maniere durable et sur une base
commercialc; (b) r6duire la pression budg6taire causee par la mauvaise gestion
des entrepnises publiques; et enfin (c) chercher & attirer des investisseurs
crdateurs d'emploi.
23. Ainsi, les travaux preparatifs de la r6forme ont deji permis au Gouvernement de
produire un audit des entreprises publiques pernettant d'identifier les probf6mes
principaux lids a la gouvernance de ces entreprises. Ensuite, la Pr6sidence de la
Republique a animd un atelier de reflexion autour de l'id6e de rMforme en
septembre 2001. EnfZn, le Comite de Pilotage de la reforme des entreprises
publiques sera cr6e incessamment par d6cret Pr6sidentiel. Le r6le de ce Comijt
est de preparer et mettre en place la reforrne, notamment par un diagnostic de
toutes les entreprises publiques effectue au moyen d'audits financier et
operationnel.
24. Les 6tapes a suivre maintonant sont le suivantes: (a) la mise en place des groupes
sectoriels devant aider A definir l'aspect strategique de la r6formce; (b) la
dfinition d'un calendrier identifiant Ics 6tapes de la restructuration et/ou du
d6sengagement; et (c) l'elaboration des textes organiques1 devant 8tre soumis au
pftrlement
'Incluant la loi cadrc sur les entreprises publiques, Is loi sur le ddsengagement do l'Etat ct lea lois se torinaes-



14/05 02 MAR 15:16 FAX 243 8802381       MINECOFIN RDC                              0 006
8
25. En parallle, il importe de lancer un audit de la dette inte'ieure de l'Etat ainsi que
celui des dettes croisees des entreprises du portefeuille, dont les premiers r6sultats
seront connus Yers le premier semiestre 2003. Dans ce contexte, les premieres
actions de reforme des entreprises publiques seront prises au cours du premier
semestre 2003.
RELANCE DU SECTEUR PRIVE ET LA SOCIETE CIVILE
26. Le probl6me de 1'emploi et du travail se pose avec acuitd depuis que la RDC
traverse une p6riode de crise 6conomique et de conflits armes. Pour remedier A
cette situation, Ic gouvernmnent s'engage a court et moyen terme a promouvoir la
cr6ation d'emplois et de revenus durables. Plus particuli6rement, le
Gouvernement a pris plusieurs mesures visant a revoir le cadre fiscal des
entreprises, les incitations au d6veloppement dos PME-PMI, afin d'encourager le
passage de I'6conomie informelle A I'economie formelle. II a aussi ete accordc des
facilit6s aux investissemcnts pour la promulgation du cadre des investissements et
l'elaboration du code niinier et la creation des tribunaux de commerce. Toutefois,
cela ne saurait se faire sas la cr6ation d'un environnement propice a 1'activit6 du
se&teur prive par J'instauration d'une concertation reguliere entre le
Gouvernement et la FEC et les autres organisations professionnelles-
Reforme du secteur Financier
27. Le Gouvemnement a d6j& d6fini une 6bauche de strategie globale dc restructuration
du secteur financier (COREBAC, << Sclema global de la restructuration du
systeme financier congolais o, Kinshasa, mars 2002), prisentee aupres de la
Banque mondiale et du Fond mon6tairc international. Cette strategic globale
poursuit les objcctifs d'assainissement et de r6habiitation du systeme bancaire et
financier (banques, compagnie d'assurance, institutions de micro-fmance,
institutions financi4ires specialisees), d'am6lioration de la capacite dc gestion des
etablissements de credit, de renforcement de la surveillance bancaire et de
l'aamelioration de l'environnement bancaire, r6glementaire, financier et judiciaire.
28. Dam le cadre de cette strat6gie, le Couvernement a deja choisi en avril 2002 de
plafonner A 20 % sa participation dans le capital social des banqucs, et
d'abandonner son pouvoir de gestion. Enfin, nous avons identifie des actions i
realiser a court, moyen et long terme.
29. A ce jour, le Gouvernement a deja termine la premi&re phase de son action dont
les Ctapes sont>E



14/05 02 .NAR 15:17 FAX 243 8802381      MINECOFIN RDC                               h 000'
9
a Ia crdation du Comite de Restructuration du Systeme Bancaire Congolais
(1998);
* Ia stabilisation du cadre macro-6conoinique (rnua 2001 et aprcs);
. la promulgation des lois sur l'activitt et le contrOle des 6tablissements de credit
ainsi que des dispositions applicables aux coop6ratives d'6pargne et de cr6dit
(mars 2002);
*  Ia liquidation de quatre banques prives (ATi1, BANCOR, BANCOC et
COBAC), de 1998 a nos jours;
 Ia n6gociation et le suivi de l'exeution des plans de restructuration de trois
banques commerciales ( BCDC, UBC et BIC) et d'une institution financire
sp6cialisec (SOFIDE) dans lc cadre du Regime Special leur accordant des
avantages institutionnels (i partir de 1999);
* Ic premier tour des audits de quatre hanques conmerciales sous fmancement de
la Banque Mondiale (2000) ; et
* l'institution obligatoire du systeme de contr6le interne dans les 6tablissements
de credit (1999).
30. La deuxieme phase de la restructuration du secteur financier passera de
l'assainissement du secteur a la stabilisation et la reconstruction de la partie saine,
notamment   par les actions ou les ftpes ci-apres: le reDforcement et
l'am6lioration de I'efficacitd de la Banque Centale; I'audit financier et
organisationnel de toutes les banques, y compris celles d6j& audit6es ainsi que
l'evaluation ct la certification de la situation patrimoniales des banques publiques.
y compris le passif social dont les termes de r6fdrences doivent e flnalis6s et
communiques au BCECO, et 1'6tablissement des nouvelles listes des banques a
liquider, a restructurer ou A privatiser. n1 est aussi prdvu P'hawmonisation du
systWme comptable bancaire et la revision dc Ia fiscalit6 bancaire ; I'adaptation du
dispositif prudentiel aux norines internationales; la poursuite de la liquidation de
4 banques privees; la liquidation de Ia N.B.K. at de la B.C.A.; et le retrait
d'agrdment, la liquidation ou la privatisation de la BCCE.
31. En ce qui concerne la Banque Centrale du Congo, la Loi relative a son
ind6pendance a et6 publi6e au mois de mai 2002. Par ailleurs, un audit financier et
organisationnel de la Banque Centmle est en cours de reafisation depuis avril
2002. Un plan d'actions ser formuld sur base des conclusions de cot audit.
32. Le processus sora boucl4 par I'elaboration d'un plan dc restructuration, si besoin,
pour chaque banquc consid&r5c viable.
Secteur des Ressources Naturelles
o Secteur Mnier
33. Le Gouverement est en train de r6former le cadre juridique et rdgulateur du
secteur minier. Un nouveau code minier elabore depuis 1998 est en train d'&tre
Yot6 par le Parlement en ce moment.



14/05 02 'MAR 15:31 FAX 243 8802381       MINECOFIN RDC                              @i001
10
Le gouvernement a d6j& d6clar6 un moratoire sur les nouveUes conventions
mineres en attendant l'adoption du nouveau code niinier. Les 6tapes pr6vues
avant le fin decembre 2002 sont les suivantes:
Promulguer le nouveau code minier;
Preparer et adopter les r*glements d'application du nouveau code minier;
Crier une commission de validation des titres minicrs;
Publier une liste complete des titres miniers octroyes depuis 1995;
Publier la liste complete des titres miniers confirm6s, contest6s et abandonn6s;
Mettire en place par decret le nouveau cadastre minier dotd d'autonomie
administrative et financi6rc.
34. Dars le secteur du diamant, le monopole sur l'achat des diamants est deja aboli et
lc secteur est lib6ralis6. Avant fin de 2002, les exportateurs de la RDC pourront
comptcr sur I'accord de Kimberly sur les dimants extraits dans les zones de
conflit afin d'augmenter le valeur des diamants export6s.
35. La 06camines ftait pendant longtemps le producteur et l'exportateur le plus
important du pays. La situation actuelle de la G6camincs est extr8mement grave
et peut Otis resum6e par quelqucs chiffies-c06s: (i) endettement tr6s 6lev6.
superieur k USD 1.300 millions, dont USD 100 millions de dette fiscale; (ii)
pertes d'exploitation cumulees sup6rieures A 2 milliards de USD depuis 1990
(USD132 millions en 2001), conduisant a des fonds propres n6gatifs de plus de
USD 600 millions en 2001 ; (iii) &quipement v6tuste et technologies inadapt6es;
(iv) cofits de production 2 a 4 fois superieurs aux mnoyennes internationales; (v)
personnel pl6thorique (23.400 salaries) et vieillissant; (vi) salaires en retard de
paiement de plus de 12 mois pour le personnel congolais et 28 mois pour les
expatri6s; (vii) dette fiscale superieure A U SD 100 millions ; et (viii) contentieux
judiciaires et saisies frequentcs des produits. Les op6rations courantes de la
Gecamines entrainent une importante perte de valeur et ont un effet de r6cession
sur l'6conomie du Katanga. Les oi towns pour l'ann6e en cours indiquent que la
socirt6 va vraisemblablement se trouver dans une situation l'emp6chant de faire
face i ses obligations salariales
36. Afm d'aider la relance du secteur mnimer, le gouvenrlment propose les actions
suivantes:
. Creer un Cornit6 de restructuration de G6camines qui sera plac6 a la
Pr6sidence;
Pr6parer et ex*cuter uDe 6tude de restructuraion d6taill6e de Gecamines;
Preparcr une strat6gie de restructuration et mettre en place un plan sur la base
des 6tudes effectuees ; et
Pr6parer et mettre en place un programme de departs volontaires afin de rdduire
les effectifs en surnombre;.



14/05 02 MAR 15:32 FAX 243 8802381        MINECOFIN RDC                              0 002
11
37. La situation actuelle de la Gecamines demande cependant des mesures urgentes
de redressement qui pourraient etre pnses mnme avant le resultat de l'6tude
mentionnee. La societe se trouve aujourd'hui 8tre incapable de faire face i ses
obligations salariales et un nombre important d'agents pourrait quitter la
Gecamines & court terme sans cffet sensible sur les activitcs de la soci&t4. Le
gouvemement demande a la Banque mondiale par voie de son credit de
redressement 4conomique un appui A son effort de depart volontaires comnme
premi&re dtape dans ce processus.
u Secteurforesfier
38. La Rl)C compte environ 190 millions d'hectares de forets ct savanes arborees.
Les parcs et les zones de conservation dejA existants couvrent plus de 18 millions
d'hectares, soit plus ou moins 8% du territoire national, Les forets de production
perenne dc produits forestiers ligneux et non ligneux traditionnels sont estim6es a
60 millions d'hectares. La superficie des forets susceptibles de produire
durablement des services nmultiples pour l'environnement global est encore plus
vaste.
39. La foret est le milieu de vic, la source principaJe de revenus non agricoles et de
source de proteines, tant v6g6tale qu'animale, pour toute la population rurale de la
RDC. Officiellement, la production de bois est aujourd'hui de 80.000 m3, alors
que la production nationale theorique depasse les 6 millions de in3 par an. Les
bendfices financiers per4us sous fonme de droits et taxes par l'Etat se situaient a
UISD 100.000 en 2001. lls sont susceptibles d'attcindre des centaines de mifllons
de dollars si l'exploitation des forets de production dtait attribue selon les
conditions de marche, sachant que I'am4nagement des forets se ferait selon des
plaus de gestion qui en garantissent la p6rennite.
40. La politique et la strat6gie de d6veloppement forestier sont cn preparation. Les
principes a la base de cette politique sont les suivants: mise en valeur globale de la
foret dans ses dimensions sociale, economique et ecologique, et gestion int6grde
de la flore, de la faune et des services environnementaux ; mise en place de
partenariats pour la conservation du patrimoine de biodiversite, et production de
services environnementaux avec partage equitable des co(kts et dcs b6nifices
financiers qui en d6coulent; rtrocession aux communaut6s locales d'une partie
des revenus de 1'exploitation commerciale des forets pour leur developpement, et
mise en place d'un regime de foresterie communautaire parall6le a celui
d'exploitation  forestiere  industrielle; protection  de  la faune  sauvage;
g6n6ralisation des plans d'amenagement pour les forets de production et
accroisscment du reseau de conservation jusqu'a 15% du territoire national.



14/05 02 -MAR 15:34 FAX 243 8802381        MINECOFIN  RDC                               Q 003
12
Pour attirer en RDC des investissements nationaux ou internationaux dans le
secteur forestier effcctu6s par des operateurs fiables, le gouvernement est en train
d'elaborer un processus de selection transparente, comp6titive et equitable des
operateurs 6conomiques forestiers. I1 devra aussi veiller a l'application rigoureuse
des lois et penalit6s.
41. Trois instruments majeurs sont A la base de la strategie de la nouvelle politique
foresti&e.
* Une definition claire de la situation de depart avec mise i jour des droits
d'exploitation forestire existants et purge des droits caducs et des droits
illegalement acquis;
* La refonte du cadre reglemcntaire. La nouvelle loi forestierc, qui est en phase
finale de preparation, est le socle de cette refonte. Elic vise, entre autres, a la
gen4ralisation des plans d'am6nagement; la creation d'un cadre de foresterie
communautaire; la distribution aux collectivites locales de 30% de la taxe de
superficie prelev6e sur les concessions foresti&res; la s6lection transparente et
competitive des opdrateurs forestiers ; et la reforme de la fiscalit ;
. Le renforcement des institutions nationales. Une revue institutionnelle
approfondie est prcvuc pour fornuler les modalitc specifiques de renforcement
des institutions nationales dans le secteur des forets et de la conservation de la
nature. Cette revue est inscrite dans le cadre du projet PMUIRR de la Banque
mondiale.
42. Certains elements de cette strat6gie suivants oat ddja connu un ddbut
d'application.
* Une clarification des droits d'exploitation avec: (a) I'abrogation des contrats
constates caducs; (b) la misc en demeure des contrats relatifs 4 des operations
en zone occupee et d'autres cas ou l'op6rateur se trouverait dans l'impossibilite
de faire face aux obligations contractuelles; et (c) la pr6paration de la liste
complete des contrt d'exploitation valides, des contrats abroges, des mises en
demeure, et des cas contestes;
 Une augmentation dc la taxe annuelle de superficie sur le contrats
d'exploitation a ete augmentee de 0.000143 USD A 0,5 USD par hectare pour
accorder aux ressources forestieres une valeur plus adequate, et par voie
indirecte, decourager la speculation foncitre dans le domaine forestier;
* Un moratoire sur toute nouvelle allocation foresti4Bre jusqu'a l'application des
nouvelles regles d'adjudication dans l'esprit de la nouvelle loi forcstiere.
43. Les 6tapes ult6rieures & atteindre avant la fm de 2002 incluent la publication du
nouveau code forestier.,



14/05 02 MAR 15:35 FAX 243 8802381        MINECOFIN RDC                                Q004
13
44. Enfin, le Gouvemement dispose d'un plan d'action prioritaircs arrmt6 en
collaboration avoc la Banque mondiale, qui liste les principales 6tapes a franchir
pour avanoor dans le cadre des r6fornes du secteur forestier au del& de la p*iode
couverte par le Cr6dit de Relance Economique. Ce plan est joint a la prdsente
lettre.
Falit  Kinshasa, le -i01 t Ai L3]2
Ministe de l'EZonoi1e- Finances etl3udget



14/05 02   MAR 15:36 aFX 243 8802381              MINECOFIN    RDC                                     im 005
Tableau syoptique de In Compounte foriedre du ERC
TRANqCFK TNTALE MULT&SECTORIELLE
CONDITIONS A SATISFARE AVANT PRESENTATION AU CONSEIL
Wd'id le 16 May 2002)
*  D1crter un moratoire sur toute uouvele allocation, extension ou reconduction de contrat
(autorition, lettre et garantie) jusqu'u In dftionffol des nouveiles r6gles d'adjudiation
- Arr&d MINAFFET sur approbation ECOFIN - Avant to 16 MW 2002
Cede melare esi essentielpour aviter la cow3se 6 /ttributnon de nouvea luires d'e*poation mnni la aise
en vigweur du lauuwke Aoi eti urn nouveau syifme d'a*buon de conession 7wparnie et camiTidt4f
L arrede mow,iohe est d4jkpr&mtd pour examen dECOFIN
* Meltre en application mne augmentation de to taxe de superiie qui diousude la sp6culation
- Arra6 du MNAFFBT consif par le MTNBPF - Nji fait
- Note circlaire du MINAFFET precisant lWs modaitis d'application 2002 - Mai 2002
Sgi Ik 21 avri Amrner, cer arret porre la  edo ekperficre d 0.5 US IrW/an. 11 reso  a envo r mrm now
dc&irlar, Pxiqwiv k. comruon  d 'applkcam pour l amde en coars  ponwu la dae4limdt de palemau a
fin jditfle 2002 accpaisenw aprormta lemporls et rlWlAton automnique ae so de &f aJonae.
*   Examiner tons les coutraft d'exploitation edsftnts (sutrbition do prospecdo, Wems
d'intetion et garaic d'appruviaiotmemet); (i) ootfe l'abroaton des contats eoumtis
caducs; (t) enviyor lett   dc mic e dnie nre aux socit& sitnes en zone .ccp6c ct i
d'aufrcs socit6s qui Etient par Ie passi dans I'impossibilit6 de fimre fe sax obligations
contractuelos; et (iLl) dreser Is liste compl&te des contrsts d'exploitation vades des conts
abrogis, d    ns  en demcuv, et des cm coutest6 a ls date de May 2002.
Documents A fturniir
-   Tableaux d'analyse des wontals exislaut - 15 Mai
-   An*es d'abwgaion et Lctbe des mise en demeure du MINAFFET cnvoy6es aux soci*tW et
exploitnts individucls ooDOn6s - 15 May
*  Cer opdraion et in cwrs Elle est acwe pour 143 contrass (3-4 illtfons d 'hecrrs). L analyse de 118
cantrat re.-Wwnt es en czr. Coen condition ne demade pt nicesarement la rcsolut)on de& Ys contests
au I awlyse approjbndie des contL  3itudes en zon ocaut dont la risoltwon paurrat ndceier ds
suwppments duunfonxwa   Dan ce Armor cas 11 sffiral la ktnot7ation de mxs en demewa aoec indication
des MMl& J  rpcte et des concitions de rd8ulorisation.
TRANCHE FLOTTANTE FORESTIERE (d'Wi Octobre 2002)
* Code forestier soumis a l'approbation du Parlmenmt (le!) ou de In Presideuce (d6cret-loi)
- Approbation par ECOFIN et transmission au Parlaunnt ou & la Pr6sidenc - due osinde: 7
Leprojes de code fore-ster est acuellem.l souwms a I'ECOFJx. n purai. A, avxmin par k Parlemeni |
cors de to session actue le. ou bten etn: adopt. nwvsfof e o ddcAret-loi penxaru  v ace parlamwnlalr,i
ou encore dire ereanun lors de la prochaine session en ociobre. Le proces verbal des ngociatlotns dvra
spcifler quo l traitewnt dtu code fioretier ss faorm  d loi on de ddcret prihdptifiel soXt ihnaleun aw
fins al la presento con'Ytionrw1iti.






51
Annex 3
Government Policy Matrix
Macroeconomic management
Matrix of actions
Action                       Actions                      Already            To be taken
No                                                        taken
Start date   Timetable for
completion
I.         EXTERNALSECTOR
1.1        Devaluation of Congolese Franc via introduction of a  May, 2001
floating exchange system, including publication of
related legislation and regulations
II.       MONETARY SECTOR
11.1       Liberalize all interest rates                   May 2001
11.2       Reduce central bank financing of budget expenditures  Since June
2001
11.3       Enact and publish all legislation granting                              April/May 2002
independence to Central Bank
11.4       Publish presidential decree requiring all payments to                   April/May 2002
have prior approval of Minister of Finance
III.      PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT
111.1     Improve revenue management
111.1.1    *  Deposit all tax and off-budget revenue with BCC  Ongoing
since June
_________                                     ~~~~~~~                ~~ ~~2001  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
111.2     Improve expenditure management and control
111.2.1    *  Strict management of expenditure on a cash basis  Ongoing
in line with available receipts               since June
_________                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~2001
111.2.2    *  BCC financing of expenditure limited to      Ongoing
monetary ceiling set in IMF monetary program  since June
2001
111.2.3   *   Reinstatement of proper expenditure management  Ongoing
procedures from commitment to payment         since June
2001
111.2.4    *  Approval of 2002 budget by Parliament         January
_  2002
IV.        STRUCTURAL MEASURES
IV. 1     Liberalize all prices, except for electricity, water, and  Ongoing
public transportation                           since July
2001                                _
IV.2       Liberalize petroleum product prices and establish an  Ongoing
automatic and transparent mechanism for pricing  since June
them. Adjust prices accordingly                   2001
IV.3      Liberalize diamond market and publish corresponding  May 2001
legislation/regulations



52
Governance
Matrix of actions
Action                      Actions                      Already           To be taken
No                                                      taken
Start date   Timetable for
completion
L.        IMPROVE PUBLIC SECTOR GOVERNANCE AND
REDUCE CORRUPTION                       ,               .____._I_.
1.1       Workshop on Governance and Anticorruption                    August
2002
1.2       Preparation and adoption of a global governance and        June 2002   December 2002
anticorruption strategy, including an action plan.
1.2.1     *   Adoption and implementation of Code of conduct           March     September 2002
for public officials                                       2002
1.2.2     *   Preparation and promulgation of an Omnibus               March     September 2002
Law on corrupt practices and other related offences,       2002
including the creation of institutions, as needed, for
investigation and prosecution - an Anti-corruption
Commission in particular
1.2.3     *   Creation of the Anti-corruption commission             September   December 2002
2002
11         IMPROVETHE-LEGAL JUDICIALAND REGULATORY
FRAMEWoRKFORPRIVATESECTORDEVELoPMENT
II. I     Promulgation of law creating commercial courts  July 2001
11.2      Promulgate new Investment Code                  February
2002
11.3      Revise Labor Code                                          September   December 2002
2001
11.4      Publication of Mining code, Mining regulations and         April 2002   October 2002
Mining Cadaster
11.5      Promulgation of new Forestry Code and its                  May 2002     October 2002
application decrees                                                  l
m.        IMPROVE PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
I1I.1     Continue improving Public Expenditure management  Ongoing   Ongoing       Ongoing
in collaboration with IMF and WB (e.g. CFAA, AAP)  since July
2001
111.2      Conduct public expenditure review as input into            May 2002   September 2002
preparation of 2003 Budget Law and HIPC
expenditures programs
111.3     Establish fiduciary arrangements for HIPC-financed          May 2002   September 2002
expenditures
111.4     Improve oversight of public expenditures                    May 2002      June 2003
111.4.1   *   Strengthen internal and external audit functions       April 2002   December 2003
(Inspection Gdnerale des Finances and Cour des
comptes)
111.4.2   *   Appointment of independent observers to Public         September
Procurement commissions                                    2002
111.4.3   *   Independent audit of 2002 government accounts            March        Annually
2003        thereafter



53
Public Enterprie Reform
Matrix of actions
Action                    Action                     Already           To be taken
No.                                                  taken
Start date   Completion
date
ELAVORATiONOF STRATEGY FOR RUORM OF
PUBLIc ENTERPRISE SECTOR
1.1       Undertake financial audit of all public    Semester 1
enterprises                                  2001
1.2       Workshop on public enterprise reform       September
2001
.3        Signature of decree establishing Public                             June 2002
enterprise reform committee (COPIREP), and
nomination of key managers
1.4       Formation of thematic and sectoral reform                           June 2002
strategy groups (Telecommunications, Energy,
Transport, Legal and Regulatory reform, and
I Social safety nets)
i.5       Operational audits of principal Public                 June 2002   October 2002
Enterprises
1.6       Audit of internal cross-debts of Public                June 2002    April 2003
Enterprises and Government
.7        Elaboration of a global strategy for                    October   December 2002
restructuring, liquidating and/or privatising            2002
Public Enterprises
.: n.1.    MoDERNISATioN OF LEGAL REGULATORY        -.
AND FISCAL FRAMEWORKCGOVtRNING
PUIBLIC ENTERPRISES                             .      .       -   _i-    ___
1.1 X     Revised law governing public enterprise                            October 2002
activities approved by Council of Ministers and
ready for submission to Parliament
II.2      Legal framework for privatization approved by                      October 2002
Council of Ministers, ready for submission to
Parliament                                                   __       _
11.3      Reform of tax regime for public and private              April    November 2002
enterprises: draft Law accepted by MINEFB,               2002
and ready for submission to Parliament
REFORM OF KEY SECrORS
Ill.1     Telecommunications                                     May 2002
*   Seminar                                                         May 2002
*   Presentation of new laws and regulations                        June 2002
*   Adoption of new laws and regulations                          November 2002
*   Other high priority measures                                  December 2002
(normalization of licenses and establishment
of interconnection regimes)
111.2      Reform OCPT                                           May 2002      June 2003
111.3      Reform Postal Services                                May 2002      June 2003



54
Financial sector Reform
Matrix of actions
Action No                        Action                        Already taken        Actions to be taken
Start date     Completion
Date
L           DEFINITION OF GLOBAL STRATEGY FOR                                                  end June 2003
RESTRUCrURING THE FINANCIAL SECTOR (banks,
insurance companies, microfinance institutions, and
selected specialized financial institutions) reform of
paymnent systems, strengthening of supervision
nI.         REFORM OF LEGAL AND REGULAToRY FRAMEWORK OF
THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
lI. l       New Banking Law                                     February 2002
11.2        New Credit Union Law                                February 2002
11.3        Harmonization and reform of the accounting system and
reform of tax regime for the banking sector
11.3.1      *   Finalization of TOR for studies by BCC and       April 2002
submission to BCECO
11.3.2      *   Execution of studies                                               To be      To be specified
specified
11.3.3      *   Implementation of recommendations                                  To be      To be specified
specified
11.4        Revision of prudential regulations in line with                                     March 2003
international norms
11.5        Implementation                                                      April 2003      March 2004
111_____    STRENGTHENING THE CENTRAL BANK
E1.1        Adoption of new central bank charter granting it full  May 2002
independence
111.2       Audit of Central Bank                                                April 2002      September
2002
111.3       Formulation of action plan on basis of audit                         September    December 2002
2002
IV          RESTRUCTURING OF THE BANKING SECTOR PHASE 1
IV.I        Creation of Banking Sector Restructuring Commission     1998
(COREBAC)
IV.2        First round of audits, liquidations, and restructuring  1999-present
Four audits (BCDC, UBC, BIC, Stanbic)
Liquidation of 5 private banks
IV.3        Place NBK and BCA in liquidation                                     May 2002
IV.4        Cancellation of BCCE's operating license                                             September
2002
IV.5        Liquidation or privatisation of BCCE                                 September
2002
V           RESTRUCTURING OF THE BANKING SECTOR PHASE 2
V.1         Financial and organizational audits of all banks inc. those
not yet audited
V.1.1       *   Finalization of terms of reference and their     March 2002
submission to BCECO
V.1.2       *   Execution of audits for all banks so far unaudited               July 2002       September
(BIAC, BCD, Citibank, Fransabank and FBC) and                                       2002
updating of audits for BCDC, UBC, BIC, and Stanbic
V.2         Establishment of new list of banks to be liquidated,                               September2002
restructured or privatized
V.3         Elaboration of restructuring plans, as needed, for banks                          December 2002
considered viable on basis of audit



55
Natural Resources Sector
Matrix of actions
Action No                        Action                        Already taken        Actions to be taken
Start date     Completion
Date
A           MINING
l           REFORM LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR
THE MINING SECTOR
1.1         Declare moratorium on new mining concessions while  January 2002
awaiting adoption of new Mining Code
1.2         Promulgate new Mining Code                         May 2000
1.3         Prepare and Publish New Mining Sector Regulation                    April 2002     October 200
1.4         Create Commission for validation of mining titles under                             May 2002
new code
1.5         Publish complete list of mining titles granted since 1995                           June 2002
1.6         Publish complete list of confirmed, contested and                                November 2002
abandoned mining titles
1.7         Promulgate new Mining Cadastre Decree                                               May 2002
I           DIAMONDS
11.1        Subscribe to Kimberley Accord on conflict diamonds  April 2002
Iii         RESTRUCTURING OF GtCAMINES
111.1       Create a permanent committee for restructuring                                      May 2002
Gecamines at the Presidency
111.2.1     *   Prepare and Execute a Comprehensive Restructuring               May 2002     November 2002
Study of Gecamines
111.2.1     *   Prepare restructuring strategy and implementation               September    December 2002
plan on basis of study                                              2002
111.3       *   Prepare and Implement a voluntary departure                     April 2002
program to reduce overstaffing
B           FORESTRY                                                                        .
I           REFORM LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR
THE FORESTRY SECTOR
1.1         Clarify status of all forestry exploitation contracts,             March 2002       May 2002
including:
I . annulment of those that have not complied with their
contractual obligations (payment of taxes and
sawmill construction); and
2.  suspension of contracts in occupied zones or in other
cases where operator has been materially unable to
comply with terms of contract; and
3. preparation of complete list of contracts validated,
annulled, suspended or contested
1.2         Establish a moratorium on all new allocations, extension           March 2002       May 2002
or renewals of existing concessions, pending definition of
new rules of allocations in context of new forestry law
1.3         Presentation of a new forestry code as a law or                      February     October 2002
presidential decree                                                   2002
1.4         Publication in the national press of ministerial decree           To be defined   To be defined
defining rules for selection of bidders and attribution of
concessions through competitive bidding process
1.5         Execution of forestry taxation study to rationalize                 June 2002    December 2002
structure and improve recovery
1.6         Publication of new forestry code in national press                 January 2002   NovemberO02
1.7         Publication of new forestry code regulations in national             February    December 2002
press                                                                  2002     1                1






56
Annex 4
Table of Social Indicators
Indicator                                        DRC            Sub-Saharan Africa
(in percent unless otherwise sRecified)     Latest single year     (1993-1999)
Population in millions (2001)                     52                   643
Population growth                                 3.1                  2.6
GDP per capita in US$ (2001)                      107                  500
Infant mortality rate (per thousand,1998)         129                  91.8
Child mortality rate (per thousand,1998)          213                  161
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000/live births)  1289                 ...
HIV/AIDS prevalence (2001)                        5.1                  8.0
HIV/AIDS prevalence for women in conflict areas   8.0                  ...
Literacy rate (2001)
Male                                            79.8                  69
Female                                          51.9                  53
Gross school enrollment rate (1998)
Male                                            49.7                  85
Female                                          32.3                  71
Impact of Conflict
Child soldiers (thousands)                     10.0-15.0
Displaced persons (millions)                   3.0-4.0
Deaths from deprivation (millions)               3.0
Sources: I-PRSP, DRC: Social Sector and Poverty Indicators, June 12, 2000, M. Prywes






57
Annex 5
Congo, Democratic Rep. of at a glance                                                                6/13/02
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                               Congo    Saharn       Low.
Dem. Rep.     Africa  Income      Development dlmond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     50.0      659     2,459                Ufe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atas rmethod, US$)                   85       480       420
GNI (Atlas mthod, US$ billions)                      4.5      313     11030
Average annual growth, 199400
Population (%)                                       3.0       2.6      1.9                    / 
Labor force (%J                                      2.8       2.6      2.4     GNI                            Gross
per                           prlmary
Most recent estimate (latet year available, 1994-00)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of populaton below national poverty line)
Urban populaton (% of total populalion)               ..       34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     46        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            161        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           34                              Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  ..       55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 33        38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  61      78        96          Congo Democratc Rep of
Male                                               72        85       102              Low-income group
Female                                             50        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic rUtlo
GDP (US$ billions)                         14.4      9.3       4.6      4.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP              10.0      9.1      24.1     23.6                    Trade
Exports of goods and servbces/GDP          16.6     29.5      21.9     18.1
Gross domestc savings/GDP                   0.0      0.0      20.4     14.9
Gross national savings/GDP                  0.0      0.0      N/A       N/A
Current account balance/GDP                -0.6     -7.9     -14.1    -17.4     Domestic     F 
Interest payments/GDP                                                           savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                               289.1    283.3
Total debt servce/exports                                     51.6     51.8
Present value of debVGDP                                      N/A     261.9
Present value of debtexports                                  N/A    1,564.2
Indebtedness
1980490  19900      1999      2000   200004
(average annual growth)
GDP                                1.6             -10.4      -4.3                     Coo Democratic Rep of
GDPpercapita                       -1.7            -11.0      -7.1                        Low-Income group
Exports of goods and services      9.6
STRUCTURE ot the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(X of GOP)
Agriculture                                25.3     30.1      53.9      N/A
Industry                                   33.1     28.2       8.8      N/A
Manufacturing                             14.3    11.0       4.3       N/A              an
Services                                   41.6     41.6      28.1      N/A
Private consumption                        81.5     79.1      73.3     78.9         1 201
General govemment consumption               8.4     11.5       6.3      6.2                    GDI    --e-GDP
Imports of goods and services              16.4     29.2      26.6     26.9
(average annul growth)                  19090    199000      1999      2        Growth of export and mport (%)
Agriculture                                 2.6               -1        -5.5     '     A
Industry                                    0.9              -14.1    -10.2    2s
Manufactufing                              1.6             -14.3       3.0     0
Services                                    1.3       ..     -13.7     -2.3    -2      6    R   _W     s     o    0
Private consumption                         3.4
General govemment consumption               0.0                                -40
Gross domestc investment                   -6.1                 .Expons                                 elnpoft
Imports of goods and services              10.7
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



58
Annex 6
Democratic Republic of Congo: Key Economic Indicators
1996     1997     1998     1999      2000       2001
Est.      Est.      Est.
(Annual percentage changes, unless otherwise indicated)
Output and prices
Real GDP                                  -1.0     -5.6     -1.6     -10.4      -6.2      -4.4
GDP deflator                               650       57      136      462       589       386
Consumer prices, annual average            617      199      107      270       554       357
Consumer prices, end of period             693       14      135      484       511        135
Extemal sector
Exports, f.o.b. (in U.S. dollar tems)      0.0    -28.0     -0.7     -20.9      -8.4       5.4
Imports, f.o.b. (in U.S. dollar terms)     3.8    -19.3       8.6     -9.9      46.2       4.9
Export volume                              1.0    -15.1       7.0    -22.1      -3.9       1.9
Import volume                              6.7    -13.1     55.7     -10.4      48.4      10.0
Termsoftrade                               1.7     -8.7     33.1       1.0       9.8     -11.8
Nominal effective exchange rate 1/       -85.3    -67.3     -13.2    -35.4     -90.7     -76.8
Real effective exchange rate 1/           -0.5     22.7       3.9    168.8     -36.6      11.0
Nominal effective exchange rate 2/       -86.3    -64.8    -21.7     -76.9
Real effective exchange rate 2/           -8.5     34.1     -10.1    -26.7
(Changes in percent of beginning-of-year broad money,
unless otherwise indicated)
Money and credit
Broad money                                523       71      160      382       493        102
Net domestic assets                        264      157      121      423       343         16
Netcredittothegovemment                    131      154      104      392        272       -11
Credit to the private sector               108        3       13       26        61       25.5
Credit to the parastatals                   24        0        4        4        9.7       1.9
Central bank interest rate (level in percent)  238.0  13.0   22.0    120.0     120.0     140.0
(In percent of GDP)
Central govemment finances
Revenue (excluding grants)                 5.4      9.4       5.9      4.6       4.5       5.9
Grants (including relief aid)              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Expenditure 4/                             9.6     20.2      12.1      9.8       9.8       6.6
Primary balance (cash basis) 5/           -1.2     -6.1      -2.4     -3.0      -3.5       0.5
Overall balance (commitment basis)        -4.2    -10.8      -6.2     -5.2      -5.3      -0.8
Overall balance (cash basis)              -1.6     -6.3      -2.7     -3.5      -3.6       0.5
Investment and saving
Gross national savings                      ...               ...      ...       ...        ...
Govemrnent                               -0.7    -5.3      -2.6     -2.4      -4.9      -0.7
Nongovermment                             ...      ...      ...      ...        ...       ...
Investment                                  ...      ...      ...      ...
Govemment                                0.5       0.9      0.1      1.1       0.4        0.1
Nongovernment                             ...      ...      ...      ...        ...       ...



59
Annex 6
Democratic Republic of Congo: Key Economic Indicators
1996     1997      1998     1999      2000       2001
Est.      Est.       Est.
(In millions of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise indicated)
Balance of payments
Exports of goods and nonfactor services   1,738     1,255    1,240    1,003       963      1,016
Imports of goods and nonfactor services   1,756     1,332    1,369    1,172       905       953
External current account (in percent of GDP  -7.1   -15.9     -9.2    -14.1       -4.0      -2.2
Gross official reserves (end of period)      72       47       60        66        51         64
Gross official reserves (weeks of imports)  2.1       1.8      2.3      2.9        3.8       4.7
External public debt
Total, including IMF 6/                  13,086    12,634   13,506   13,238     12,609    12,880
Of which: arrears                       7,477     7,769    8,710    9,222      9,604    10,082
Net present value of debt (NPV) 7/                    ...      ...       ...       ...        ..
Scheduled debt service, excluding arrears  594       575      611       523       724        728
In percent of exports of goods and services  34     46        49       52        75         72
In percent of government revenue          189      157       248      236       331        217
Exchange rate
Units of local currency perU.S. dollar 8/   1.1       1.3      2.4      4.5       50.0     312.0
Parallel market rate per U.S. dollar 8/     1.1       1.3      3.6     25.0      320.0     312.0
Notes:
1. Reliable World Bank data series are under reconstruction, unavailable
2. Series are IMF, Key Economic and Financial Indicators, 1996-1999, 2000-2005
3. Sources: Congolese authorities; and staff estimates and projections.
1/ Annual averages based on official rates. Minus sign indicates depreciation.
2/ Annual averages based on parallel market rates. Minus sign indicates depreciation.
3/ Mid-May; on May 26, a floating exchange rate system was introduced.
4/ Including interest due on external debt.
5/ Revenue and grants minus noninterest expenditure.
6/ End of period. Outstanding debt stock includes all arrears.
7/ The net present value of external public debt is 92 percent of the nominal value, reflecting the significant stock
of arrears.
8/ End of period.



60
Annex 7
Country Map



IBRD 31546
NIGERIA  / CHAD -               iC-                                                                           35'
Q CHAD> K    ~~~ETHIGPIA                               CEN TPRAL 4FF CA~N REPUBLIC
/CAMER(~N( AFRICAN REPJRDC 
.~  X-~~~~'<CENTRAL  SUDAN  N  -    -.  .        ,     -  -  - -  N  -  - - - ,  -  SUDAN
KFNYA      C.APAERO.ON     N-- -,                                                           -'
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I -IV 1. IIA                                                                       v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -I
I z
G1-BON     CONGOI2
bUcnie  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VKtn
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC:br.o,                         I           ,,--          i     '-5
OF CONGO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                            *'                                TANZANIA,
ANGO-~LA
-   ,   ~~~~~~~~~~i.  I ~~~~~~~~ Li-
-         ~~~~~~20'2



