Report No. PID11346
Project Name             Democratic Republic of the Congo-Economic (@)
Rehabilitation Credit
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Multisectoral
Project                  ZRPE57293
Borrower(s)              Government of the Democratic Republic
of the Congo
Implementing
Agency                   Ministry of Finance
Environment
Category                 U
Date PID Prepared        March 27, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     February 2002
Projected Board Date     June 13  2002
A.      Country Background and Recent Developments
The DRC is gradually emerging from a dreadful decade of political instability
and conflict. There is a consensus within the international community that a
window of opportunity has opened in the DRC to put the country back on the
road to development. Because of its size, its central location and its vast
agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric resources, the return of economic
growth in the DRC could have a dramatic effect not only on DRC's 55 million
people but also on economic prospects in the whole of Central Africa.
The conflict has taken a terrible toll. Violence and deprivation have
contributed to between 1.5 and 3 million deaths since 1997. Millions have
been displaced. Transport infrastructure has effectively collapsed in many
parts of the country, farmers can no longer commercialize their surplus while
urban food prices are high.
The conflict has also taken a regional dimension, with the involvement of
seven foreign countries. Continued instability in the DRC has had clear
consequences for its neighbors. Thus, the stabilization of the DRC is key to
sustainable peace in the Great Lakes region.
Progress towards peace
Significant progress has been achieved since Joseph Kabila became President
in January 2001. The ceasefire stalled for a year and a half was implemented
in
July 7th 1999 and is being maintained. A UN peace keeping force, the Mission
d'Observation des Nations Unies au Congo (MONUC), deployed under Security
Council Resolutions 1341 and 1355 has monitored adherence to the cease-fire
agreement, supervised the separation and redeployment of the armed forces and
has taken steps towards disarming and demobilizing militias and armed groups.
Foreign forces, Angola and Namibia in particular have withdrawn their
forces. The Bank has seconded a staff member to MONUC as a liaison officer
and is organizing a multi-country program for demobilization and
reintegration.
An inter-Congolese dialogue among the Government, rebel groups, and civil
society, intended to lead to "a new political dispensation and national



reconciliation" opened in Sun City, South Africa, on February 25, 2002.
Economic Reforms
Since early 2001, the Government has implemented a number of far-reaching
economic reforms under an interim program. The first phase of the program,
supported through an IMF Staff Monitored Program for the period June 2001 to
March 2002, was aimed at opening and stabilizing the economy, removing major
distortions and obstacles for private sector activity, restoring normal and
transparent budgetary processes, and granting the Central Bank full
independence. The second phase will aim to consolidate stability while laying
the path for increased access to international capital flows and poverty
reduction. This would include introducing a pro-poor budget, improving
efficiency of service delivery and the integrity of public service, removing
government from the productive economy, and fostering broad-based growth.
A cabinet appointed in April 2001 names respected technocrats to key economic
and social sector positions. The new Government implemented a broad range of
measures aimed at breaking hyperinflation, based on restrictive budgetary and
monetary policies. The Government has also sought to increase its revenue
base, focusing its efforts on a reform of the customs and excise
administration, rationalizing the tax and customs codes, eliminating
exemptions and deferrals, and simplifying enforcement through centralized
procedures. Broad money growth is being controlled, and inflation has fallen
from an annualized rate exceeding 680 percent during the first five months of
2001 preceding the adoption of the interim program to 8.8 percent during the
remainder of the year.
In parallel to these macroeconomic reforms, the Government implemented a
number of structural reforms. First, activity in key sectors was liberalized.
All prices have been freed with the exception of utility and transport prices
that are regularly adjusted to reflect production costs. Second, steps were
taken to enhance economic governance. Third, the Government has submitted
and Parliament has approved or is considering a series of laws that includes
the Charter of the Central Bank, the Banking Act, the Co-operative Banking
Act, the Mining Code, the Forestry Code and the Investment Code. A new Labor
Code is being prepared. Fourth, an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(I-PRSP) has been prepared through a participatory process involving all
branches of government, the private sector, civil society and the donor
community in parts of the country accessible to the PRSP team. The poverty
reduction strategy is based on restoring and consolidating the peace process,
improving governance, maintaining macroeconomic stability and introducing
pro-poor growth, and working through community dynamics to develop and
implement socio-economic policies. Fifth, a public enterprise reform program
is being prepared, to resolve the budget and performance burden imposed by
state ownership of companies. Sixth, a civil service reform is also being
prepared. Seventh, a restructuring of the banking sector is being undertaken
as a first step toward designing a comprehensive financial sector reform
program.
Social Situation
The social situation remains alarmingly difficult. Social indicators, already
low before the war, have dropped further in recent years. The budgetary
restriction required for the Government to break hyperinflation and restore
economic stability leaves scant fiscal resources for alleviating the
suffering of the people. The civil service pay scale has fallen to about $8
to $0.80 a month. A recent study by the World Health Organization and UNICEF
revealed that the vast majority of the population live on the equivalent of
US$0.20 per person per day, and consume less than two thirds of the daily
calories needed to maintain good health. The FAO estimates that about a
- 2 -



third of the population (16 million people) is starving or malnourished.
Approximately 70 percent of the population has little or no access to health
care.
Economic Situation and Prospects
Despite the Government's economic reforms, and in the absence of substantial
external financial assistance, the Congolese economy continued its downward
slide in 2001, albeit with some signs of stabilization in the second half of
the year. Yet, looking ahead, the DRC has important competitive advantages,
which could become sources of growth. Traditional exports include: (i)
mining, historically an important source of employment, raw material for
industry and export revenue; (ii) export agriculture, which has been hampered
by the conflict but will recover when conditions permit; and
(iii) forestry resources that exceed those of the rest of Africa combined. In
addition, the DRC has significant hydroelectric resources, with a potential
to export to neighboring countries and beyond to the Southern Africa Power
Pool. Its central location and its extensive inland waterways offer potential
for trade throughout the region. Its businessmen and women have long been
considered among the most entrepreneurial in Africa.
To capitalize on this potential, the Government has defined a solid recovery
program aimed at: (i) rebuilding effective public institutions and policies;
(ii) revitalizing economic activity; and (iii) meeting basic and urgent
needs. The Government is committed to ensuring that recovery activities are
adequately distributed throughout the entire country, including in areas
currently not under its control.
External Debt
However, the realization of these objective is seriously handicapped by DRC's
massive external debt. Over the past few decades, weak policies and
conflict, compounded by sometimes-misguided borrowing and lending decisions,
have produced an unsustainable debt burden. By the first half of the 1990s
the DRC had interrupted the repayment of most of this debt, which resulted in
a significant build-up of arrears. Overall about 74 percent of this debt is
due to Paris Club members, 19 percent to multilateral institutions, and 7
percent to non-Paris Club members and commercial creditors (including short-
term debt in arrears for more than one year).
The current Government has stated its commitment to normalize relations with
the country's creditors as a critical step toward economic stabilization.
Arrears need to be settled. Of the total stock of external debt, about
US$10.1 billion (78 percent) is overdue. Following arrears clearance current
debt service obligations would have to be met. DRC's payment obligations to
its creditors in the coming years are not sustainable: Debt service in 2002
represents about 106 percent of 2001 government revenues. To prevent a
renewed default after arrears clearance, external support will be needed, in
the form of debt relief on payment obligations and/or financial resources to
cover payment obligations.
B.      Bank and donor reengagement
With the emergence of a clear window of opportunity, donors are preparing for
a re-engagement in the DRC in line with the progress on the political side,
in particular with progress on the Lusaka process and the inter-Congolese
dialogue.
The Bank's strategy is encapsulated in its Transitional Support Strategy,
approved on July 31 2001,whose overall is to contribute to the transition to
peace and stability in the DRC and the sub-region. The TSS has four areas of
focus: (i) meeting basic and urgent needs, (ii) rebuilding effective public
institutions and policies, (iii) revitalizing economic activity, and (iv)
rebuilding administrative and implementation capacity. These are described in
-3 -



Box 2. The TSS promotes "early wins" to build a track record for the
Government and the leadership emerges from the inter-Congolese dialogue, to
begin to restore confidence and a view of a future both in the local
population and among donors and private investors.
Box 2: TSS Objectives
Objective
Description of Program or Activity
Meeting basic and
urgent needs
Support social service delivery and social
infrastructure ruined by looting, war and years of
neglect;
Re-integrate ex-combatants and displaced
households
Establish and support an anti-HIV/AIDS task force
at a level higher than the ministerial level.
Establish facilities for safe blood transfusion.
Rebuilding
effective public
institutions and
policies
Strengthen transparency, accountability and
participation
Lay the groundwork for broad-based growth with
disincentives to corruption and a new role for the
State vis-a-vis local administrations, the private
sector and non-governmental groups
Revitalizing
economic activity
Aid the private sector through reconstruction of
essential infrastructure
Initiate community-driven development activities
Revive the food linkages from farmer to consumer.
Introduce regulatory and other incentives for
investment while ensuring that the benefits of
natural resource wealth can be broadly shared by
all.
Rebuilding
administrative and
implementation
capacity
Develop an implementation capacity to manage donor
aid efficiently, transparently and without
corruption
In this context, the Bank is already implementing an Emergency Early
Rehabilitation Project (funded through a $50 million IDA grant) and an
Emergency Stabilization and Recovery Project (funded through a donor trust
fund). The next step is the proposed ERC Credit. The Bank is also preparing
a Emergency Multi-Sector Recovery and Rehabilitation Project - EMRRP (about
$454 million) to support rehabilitation in a number of infrastructure and
social sectors, which would be submitted to the Board following the approval
of the ERC. The EMRRP will involve substantial parallel financing from other
donors. In this context, The Bank organized three donor information
meetings, on July 3 and December 20, 2001 and on May 21 2002, in which a
- 4 -



consensus emerged on how best to assist the DRC in the transition period
C.      The Proposed Credit
Objectives. The proposed Credit (in an amount of US$450million) is part of
the Bank's TSS.
The ERC would support the Government's efforts to pursue policy and
structural reforms needed to (a) improve governance and reduce corruption
with the objectives of fostering private sector development and increasing
the supply of public services;
(b) improve public sector financial management, especially regarding public
expenditures; (c) reform of the public enterprise sector; (d) begin the
reform of the financial sector, especially the restructuring of commercial
banks; and (e) provide support to special policy actions within the mining
sector to spur its capacity to contribute quickly to GDP growth. These
reforms will thus help pave the transformation from an inefficient and
concentrated state-controlled economy to one that is market-based and better
able to deliver services and to reduce the extraordinary levels of poverty--
accentuated by conflict and the particular needs of demobilized ex-
combatants--in DRC.
Design. The first tranche, in an amount of about US$410 million would be
made available, immediately following the clearance of arrears by DRC to the
World Bank Group and would serve to repay a bridge loan used to clear
arrears, plus essential imports during 2002.
A two floating tranches would support essential structural reforms under the
TSS. One tranche of US$25 million, would buttress an initial, critical and
sensitive phase of reform of the parastatal mining enterprise, Gecamines. The
other, US$15 million, would support reforms in the forestry sector and
including a new forestry code.
D.      Benefits and Risks
Benefits
The first benefit is that the Credit would support policies to help stabilize
and revive the economy. The second benefit is the resolution of the IDA/IBRD
debt arrears constraint. Without the foreign exchange cash flow provided by
the proposed operation, the DRC would find it very difficult to clear its
arrears to the Bank, and access to Bank financial and other support would not
be restored. The third benefit is the restoration of financial discipline, as
the proposed Credit would help restore transparency and better governance in
the management of public funds. The fourth benefit is the expected increase
of both domestic and foreign private investment, with improvement in business
climate and growth spreading to many sectors.
Risks
The primary risks and associated mitigating measuresare (i) renewed
internal and/or regional conflict, which is reduced by the Lusaka peace
process, by UN intervention, and by a Bank-led multinational regional
demobilization and reinsertion program; (ii) the DRC losing international
financial support and again falling into debt service arrears following
clearance, which is mitigated by overall program of multiyear assistance with
an agreed financing plan, by the foreign exchange freed by the Credit itself
and by the renewed access of the DRC to IDA resources only if debt service is
maintained; and (iii) insufficient institutional capacity, which is being
addressed by technical assistance and capacity-building activities being
provided by the Bank, IMF, UNDP, African Development Bank and others.
Contact Points:
-5-



Eric R. Nelson
Task Manager
(202) 473-6699
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending July
12, 2002.
-6-



