FROM: The President                                                                June 18,2003


                              DEMOCRATICREPUBLICOFCONGO

                                   Economic Recovery Credit

                                        (Cr. 3660-DRC)

                              Release of the Mining Sector Tranche


1.      On June 13, 2002, the Executive Directors approved an Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC) of SDR 360.4 million     to the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). The ERC is an
integral part of the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) discussed by the Board on
July 31, 2001, to assist the DRC in its economic and social recovery, in the context of the
Government's 2001-2003 Interim Reform and Growth and Poverty Reduction Program. The
Credit has one cross-sectoral tranche of SDR 328.4 million;    and two floating sectoral tranches,
which   support reforms in the forestry sector (SDR       12 million)    and the mining     sector
(SDR 20 million) respectively, and which can be released in any order when the related triggers
have been satisfied. The Credit was declared effective on July 3, 2002 following clearance of
arrears to IDA and IBRD, and the first tranche was then released. The forestry sector floating
tranche was releasedon February 14,2003.

2.      This memorandum informs Executive Directors that the Mining Sector Floating Tranche
of SDR 20 million has been made available for disbursement. As provided in Section 3.01 and
Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement, a series of consultations with the Authorities
have reviewed the progress achieved in implementing           the program. This memorandum
summarizes these reviews and reports on the actions taken by the Government. It concludes that:
(a) satisfactory progress has been achieved in the overall execution of the program; (b) the
macroeconomic policy framework for growth and poverty reduction is consistent with the
objectives of the reform program; and (c) all specific conditions pertaining to the release of the
Mining Sector Floating Tranche have been met.



                                                    James D. Wolfensohn
                                                    President


                                                    By Shengman Zhang




                         Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
                       Country Director:  Emmanuel Mbi
                        Sector Manager:   Cadman Atta Mills
                         Team Leaders: Brendan Horton, Eric Nelson, Paul0 de Sa


                                 Democratic Republic of Congo

                                   Economic Recovery Credit

                                          Cr. 3660-DRC

                             Release of the Mining Sector Tranche


                                       I.      Background

1.      The DRC is gradually emerging from a decade of political         instability and conflict,
following decadesof mismanagement and collapse of the State under the regime of Mobutu Sese
Seko. A prolonged collapse of the state followed by civil conflict have led to the destruction and
decay of physical and social infrastructure and contributed to a death toll of between 1.5 and 3
million since 1997. Millions  have been displaced. Transport infrastructure collapsed, so markets
are no longer connected; in many parts of the country, farmers could no longer sell their surplus
while urban food prices were high. The dislocation of public administration created opportunities
for large fiscal evasion. The instability,    conflict, and ungovernability   have had regional
implications, with the involvement of seven foreign countries in the DRC conflict and the rebel
movements of Burundi, Rwanda, and Uganda operating from rear bases in the Congo. The
stabilization of the DRC is key to sustainable peacein the Great Lakes region.

2.      In this environment, the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy discussed by the Board on
July 31, 2001, supports the government of the DRC's far-reaching program of economic reform
in preparation for sustainable growth and poverty reduction. Stabilization and recovery support
Congolese efforts toward national reconciliation and provide income-earning opportunities for
the poor. Proceeds of this Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) Cr. 3660-DRC, approved by the
Executive Directors on June 13, 2002, which is an integral part of the TSS, have provided funds
necessary to support DRC cash flow immediately after arrearsto the World Bank were paid and
have helped support the DRC's efforts to continue reengaging with the international financial
community and the economy's continued stabilization and rehabilitation. The end of the DRC's
non-accrual status with the Bank, which permitted the approval of this Credit, has also catalyzed
the resumption of assistance from several donors after a decade of interruption and has set the
stage for assistanceunder the enhancedInitiative for Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC).

3.      The Government's economic reforms include fiscal stabilization; liberalization of prices,
interest rates, foreign exchange and gem trading; the adoption of new Acts governing activities of
the Central Bank, commercial bank and co-operative banking; new Codes for Mining, Forestry,
Investment and Labor; and implementation of a broad set of good governance and anti-corruption
policies. The investment, mining and forestry codes break with past practices and are intended to
significantly enhance transparency, aswell as including measures that will improve the country's
attraction to responsible private investors. In addition to supporting this ongoing program of
reforms, the Credit addresses some extremely urgent initial steps for the restructuring of the
mining giant G&mines       and steps to prevent widespread destructive exploitation of the natural
resource patrimony in the lead-up to the new policy regimes that will limit such abuses in the
future.

                     II.      RECENTPOLITICAL AND SECURITY DEVELOPMENTS

4.       Restoration     of  peace.  To address the alarming economic and social situation, the
government of President Joseph Kabila has been engaged in restoring peace, strengthening core
state institutions, correcting macroeconomic imbalances, and opening up the economy. The
stated commitment by the government to pursue peace and to undertake these reforms, as well as
its actions to date to achieve these objectives, have been well received by the international
community.

5.       Strong    progress   has been  made in consolidating  the  peace process  over   the last few
months.    In line with the Lusaka accords of 1999, peace agreements were signed in Pretoria with
Rwanda (end-July 2002) and Uganda (early September 2002). Foreign armies supporting the
several parties to the conflict have withdrawn their troops. On November 11, 2002, Presidents
Kabila and Kagame of Rwanda agreed to extend the Pretoria agreement to allow for the
disarming and repatriation of ex-Rwandan Hutu soldiers.

6.       Meanwhile, Phase III of the United Nations Observation Mission (MONUC) to the DRC
continues. The UN passed Resolution 1445 on December 5, 2002, raising the number of
peacekeeping forces committed to the MONUC from 5,500 to 8,700. This is expected to help in
filling the security vacuum that has emerged after the withdrawal of foreign troops, particularly
in the easternregion, with tragic human consequences.At the same time, the DRC is designing a
Demobilization, Repatriation, Resettlement and Reintegration program, supported by the UN and
IDA, to help ex-combatants, including child soldiers, to reintegrate themselves into society, and
the provision of assistanceto child soldiers has already begun. The DRC's own program will be
launched within the framework the Multi-country          Demobilization  and Reintegration Program
(MDRP) for the Greater Great Lakes Region (Report No. 23869 AFR), which was considered by
the Executive Directors of IDA on April 18, 2002. The MDRP is funded at US$500 million               of
which US$190 million has already been mobilized. IDA will be providing US$lSO million and
donors providing about US$350 million        in grants via a trust fund; about US$l20 million will
fund the DRC program.

7.      In February/March 2003, there was an intensification of hostilities in Ituri (the northeast
of the country) that resulted in human rights violations. In its Resolution 1468 of March 20,
2003, the UN Security Council condemned these violations and reiterated that the perpetrators,
including military      officers, should be held accountable. The Council demanded that (i) all
governments in the Great Lakes region immediately ceasemilitary and financial support for all
parties engage in the armed conflict in the Ituri region; (ii) all parties to the conflict respect the
Lusaka ceasefire accord; (iii) all foreign troops, in particular those from Uganda, be immediately
withdrawn from the territories of DRC; and (iv) that Rwanda refrain from sending troops into
DRC. On April        9, the President of South Africa, Mr. Mbeki hosted a meeting between the
Presidents of the DRC, Uganda and Rwanda, where it was agreed that the MONUC                 observer
force should take over the positions abandoned by Uganda during their withdrawal. Since then
the situation has deteriorated. The lawlessness following the Ugandan withdrawal from Ituri has
led to ethnic massacres; as of early June 2003, France, Canada and South Africa are preparing to
intervene with peacekeeping forces following an appeal by the Secretary General.

8.      On the political front, in October 2002, President Kabila reaffirmed before parliament his
commitment to the peace process and the implementation of the economic reform program
supported by the Bretton Woods institutions. On November 12, 2002, shortly after the releaseof


                                                  3

the UN report on the illegal exploitation of natural resources in the DRC in both rebel and
government held areas,President Kabila suspendedthree cabinet members and three other senior
officials  (including the director of the public diamond mining company) who were named
specifically in the report. A Cabinet reshuffle took place on November 17,2002. This responseto
the UN allegations was universally welcomed at home and by the international community.

9.       The Inter-Congolese Dialogue continued at meetings in Pretoria, hosted by South Africa's
President Mbeki, and resulted in the signature on December 17, 2002 by all stakeholders, of a
comprehensive and inclusive Agreement on peace and transition to a democratically elected
government within two to three years. On March 6, 2003, there was further significant progress
toward lasting peace, as agreement was reached on: (a) adoption of an interim constitution; (b) a
memorandum on the creation of a restructured and reintegrated army; and (c) arrangements to
ensure safety of the members of transition institutions        in Kinshasa. The Inter-Congolese
Dialogue was concluded on April 2, 2003 in Sun City, South Africa, and was followed by the
nomination     of the all-inclusive transition government, containing four vice-presidents, 36
ministers and 25 vice ministers. This government was due to take office in May 2003 and most
of its members are in Kinshasa, but the transition has been postponed due to continued political
discussions regarding control of the armed forces.

                            III.   RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS

10.      With respect to economic reform, the government implemented a heavily front-loaded
economic reform program, covering the period from June 2001 to March 2002 and monitored by
IMF staff, with the main objectives of eliminating hyperinflation, liberalizing the economy and
initiating major structural reforms. This program was satisfactorily completed, and paved the way
for a three year arrangement in the amount of SDR 580 million under the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF), approved by the Executive Directors of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) on June 12, 2002. IMF Board completed the first review of the program on March
24,2003, which led to the release of the second tranche of the PRGF (SDR 26.7 million).l

Performance under the PRGF-supported          Program

11.      Through end-December 2002, overall performance under the PRGF-supported program
continued to be satisfactory, with good progress on the structural front. For the first time in
thirteen years, economic growth was positive (about 3 percent) and has resumed across all
sectors, except for manufacturing which continues to stagnateat best.

12.      Fiscal developments. The IMF first review under the PRGF (Document EBS/03/12,
February 5, 2003) reported that overall fiscal performance was in line with program objectives
through end December 2002. Total revenue (excluding grants) at end- December exceeded the
target by 10 percent. Total expenditure remained lower than envisaged, the sharp increase in
sovereign and security expenditures related to the convening of the Sun City peace negotiations
in 2002 being more than offset by shortfalls in domestic and foreign-financed investments and



1    Waivers were granted for non-compliance with (a) the performance criterion pertaining to
     net credit to government, (b) the structural performance criteria concerning the liquidation
     of three public sector banks, and (c) the structural benchmark pertaining to the adoption of
     the Code of Conduct for civil servants; all criteria were met but with delays.


                                                  4

social expenditures. At the same time, the planned shift in the composition of expenditure toward
pro-poor spending has yet to materialize (social expenditures only accounted for 7 percent of
government primary expenditures at end-September, instead of a target of 15 percent (for the
whole year), while the combined share of defense, security, and institutions          (mainly the
presidency) amounted to about 50 percent. This share remains above its target level because of
the emerging need to fill the security vacuum left by the withdrawal of foreign troops as well as
higher-than-expected expenditures related to the peaceprocess.

13.     However, expenditures accelerated in October/November, causing an increase in inflation
and a depreciation of the exchange rate. Corrective measures were immediately taken which
brought the program target back on track. The government met end year targets, except for an
end-December 2002 inflation      rate of 15 percent compared with the 13 percent originally
projected, and is much less than the 135 percent rate reported at end-2001.

14.     On the external side, the current account balance, including grants and debt relief,
turned from a deficit of 4.7 percent of GDP in 2001 to an expected small surplus in 2002 owing
to the impact of the exceptional terms of the September 2002 Paris Club agreement, as well as a
14 percent increase in export volumes, most notably in the copper and diamond industries and
despite a substantial decline in cobalt prices. These changes counterbalanced rising capital-good
imports, with substantial investments in the mobile telephone sector. The capital account is also
estimated to have shifted from a deficit in 2001 to a surplus in 2002 on account of sharp
increases in official  assistance and in direct investment. Official   foreign exchange reserves
increased to 4.2 weeks of imports, as compared to a target of 6.2 weeks.

15.     The foreign exchange market has functioned satisfactorily since the liberalization       of
foreign exchange regulations in February 2001 and the unification        of the foreign exchange
market in May 2001. The real effective exchange rate was relatively stable during the first part of
2002, but then depreciated sharply, with an overall annual depreciation of about 58 percent. IMF
staff note that the Central Bank rarely intervenes in this market, and when it does it limits its
intervention to relatively small amounts; private capital flows have not increased, and may not
increase until the peaceprocess has concluded.

            IV.      PROGRESSUNDERTHE       ERC FINANCEDADJUSTMENTPROGFUM

A.      Overview

16.     The ERC supports broad reforms in forestry, mining,           public  enterprise, finance,
governance and anti-corruption, described in the Government's Letter of Development Policy
(Appendix 2 of the MOP). Implementation of the LDP has been satisfactory. The government has
successfully initiated and maintained a macroeconomic policy framework for growth and poverty
reduction that, notwithstanding (i) higher than programmed net credit to government, (ii) lower
accumulation of foreign reserves by the Central Bank and (iii) slightly higher inflation than
programmed at end-December 2002, and delays in adoption of two structural reforms, is
consistent with the objectives of the reform program. The remainder of the present memorandum
concentrates on developments in the mining sector. Details pertaining to the other aspects of the
Program supported by this ERC may be found in the Annex.

B.       Mining

17.      The Democratic Republic of Congo used to be an important producer of copper, cobalt,
diamonds, gold and other base metals. Historically, mining accounted for 25% of the country's
gross domestic product, 25% of total budgetary revenues and about three-quarters of total export
revenues. It provided 7% of employment.

18.      Starting in 1985, DRC's mining industry entered a phase of steep decline that led to the
collapse of production for most mineral commodities. Reasons for the dismaying performance of
the sector include: (i) a legal and economic environment hostile to the development of private-
sector-led mining operations; (ii) institutional disorganization; (iii) poor governance and the
weakness of the regulatory institutions in charge of the sector; and (iv) the huge financial losses
of state-owned enterprises, associated with an excessive tax burden that prevented them from
renovating plant and equipment.

19.      Gecamines, DRC's biggest largest state-owned mining           enterprise, was formerly the
world's first producer of cobalt and a leading producer of copper, as well as the country's first
provider of foreign exchange revenues, with more than US$ 1 billion              per year. As such,
Gecamines was a major contributor to the national budget, with more than US$ 100 million per
year. In spite of its mineral wealth, Gecamines is today in technical and financial bankruptcy, as
shown by: (i) old equipment and abyssal productivity; (ii) high production costs that translate
into substantial operating losses; (iii) 23,400 employees that have not been paid for more than 12
months; and (iv) debt of about US$ 1.4 billion dollars and arrears to most state-owned utilities.
Moreover, the company is tangled in a multitude of joint venture agreements (the majority of
them non-operational), logistic contracts and supply agreements that substantially reduce its
ability to operate.

20.      Gecamines unpaid workers pose a significant social risk to the both the current and
incoming governments in a key Southeasternprovince parts of which have been at the center of
the recent conflict. The possibility of a voluntary separation program for unpaid and inactive
workers has elicited enthusiastic support from the workers and their unions, as well as from the
Government, which faces the beginnings of social unrest in this important region. Unambiguous
voluntary severance coupled with an agreed severancepackage would provide a basis for many
Gecamines workers to break cleanly with the company and seek other opportunities. Further,
given the dominant position of Gecamines in the DRC mining industry and its once significant
fiscal contribution, its present condition of bankruptcy and the uncertainty surrounding the
resolution of its problems effectively serve to deter new investments in the mining industry, and
impose a severeconstraint on the Government's ability to increase revenue collection.

21.      For these reasons, the Government requested, and the Bank agreed to, the inclusion in
the ERC of a floating "mining      sector" tranche to finance the cost of voluntary    separation of
part of the workforce     of GCcamines, as an urgent first step towards restructuring the company
and stabilizing the situation in the mining sector. In spite of the current problems, the Democratic
Republic of Congo remains one of the most promising countries in the world in terms of mineral
potential. Given a conducive investment climate, DRC could over the next ten years return to its
historical levels of mineral exports commodities of more than US$l billion           per annum and
significant tax contributions.

22.     The objective of the ERC in the mining sector is to create the foundation for improved
governance in the management of mineral resources in DRC; and to increase the contribution of
the sector to the country's reconstruction and economic growth on a socially and environmentally
sustainable basis. The key building blocks are (i) reforming the legal and regulatory framework,
and (ii) enterprise level reform. The enterprise reform of greatest urgency concerns the collapsed
copper sector parastatal, Gecamines, the largest employer and provider of social services in
Katanga. A strategy for the still-operational       diamond producing parastatal MIBA         will be
developed as part of more general parastatal reforms under preparation.

23.     Reform of the Legal and regulatory Framework.            The new Mining Code was drafted
by the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons through a wide consultative process that involved
the participation of other ministries, civil society, private sector and the international community.
After two National Seminars held in Kinshasa on February 2000 and April 2002, the draft Code
was endorsed by the Economic and Financial Committee of the Government, then submitted to
Parliament, which approved it on June 2002. The Code was promulgated by the President and
published in the Official     Gazette on July 11, 2002. The new Mining             Code ensures full
transparency in the accessto mineral resources (e.g., allocation of permits), reduces Government
discretion, promotes the disclosure information, and ensures a non-discretionary treatment of all
operators. IDA    considers the Code to be an adequate basis for ensuring the sustainable
development of mineral resources, promoting a fair distribution of revenues between the State
and the private investors and sustainable economic growth. The new mining regulations were
finalized in January 2003 and were promulgated in March 2003 (Decree 038/2003, published in
the Official   Gazette on March 26, 2003). The approval of the Decree creating the Mining
cadastre and the Commission for the Validation           of Mining  Titles effectively concludes the
reform of the legal and regulatory framework for mining supported by the Program.

24.     The new Code also introduces a standard, non-negotiable fiscal regime applicable to all
investments that provides for sharing revenues from the mining royalties and the surface rental
fees with provincial governments and local communities. This measure is in line with emerging
best practice regarding the development of local management, promotion of local economic
development and mining sustainability. Part of the financial contribution to the national budget
would be invested in the creation of mineral resource management instruments and institutional
capacity building.

25.     Restructuring     of   GCcamines.     The    restructuring   of   Gecamines    is  proceeding
satisfactorily.  The program for the voluntary departure of 9,240 redundant staff has been
prepared with the assistance of an international expert funded under an IDF grant, has been
agreed to by the Company's management and unions, and approved by the Economic and
Financial Committee of the Government (ECOFIN) on March 11,2003. The Bank reviewed the
plan and considered it satisfactory. The program will begin as soon as the implementation
arrangements have been finalized. To this end, the President approved a decree (Decree
03Y2003) creating the Committee for the Restructuring of G&mines              on March 18, 2003. An
international consultant has been hired under the Emergency Early Recovery Project, financed by
an IDA Grant, (Grant No. HO050 signed August 10, 2001) to prepare a global strategy for the
restructuring of Gecamines. A report outlining an overall strategy for restructuring the company
was submitted in April      2003, and Bank staff believes that it lays the basis for a sound
restructuring of G&mines.     The government approved it in May. An international consultant has
also been hired under the Emergency Trust Fund to prepare an environmental audit for


                                                   7

Gecamines, and a final report was submitted in April        2003. The Bank has reviewed with
Government and the Consultant the main conclusions of the preliminary version of the report; the
final is still being reviewed by Government, but IDA staff consider it to be of good quality,
alerting for some huge environmental liabilities   in Gecamines core operations and proposing
solutions for their remediation.

26.     Impact of ERC reforms. By setting concrete, immediate and clearly defined objectives,
the ERC       gave the Government an opportunity       to demonstrate its commitment      to the
establishment of a transparent legal and regulatory framework in order to improve governance in
the management of mineral resources. In addition, the mining component of the Economic
Recovery Credit opened the way for the comprehensive restructuring of Gecamines, the sector's
biggest state-owned company and the cornerstone of the economy of the Katanga Province.
Achievements have been satisfactory throughout the twelve months during which the mining
component of the ERC has been designed and implemented. The government intends to solidify
and follow up on these achievements through capacity building measures and further sector
reforms, with support from IDA and donors.

27.     Continued    implementation    of ERC reforms in the future. The implementation of
ERC-supported reforms in the mining sector will continue to be supported by IDA through the
proposed Private Sector Development and Competitiveness Project (PSDC), scheduled to be
submitted to the Board in July 2003. The PSDC will support capacity building at the government
level for the enforcement of the new Mining Code, the on-going restructuring of Gecamines and
a further social safety net for the G&mines       workers choosing to leave the company, The
Government      has also requested IDA     to consider further support for natural resources
management and governance to help, inter alia, with consolidation and deepening of the reform
agendaand the restructuring of Gecamines.

       V.       CONDITIONSFORRELEASEOFTHEMININGSECTORFLOATINGTRANCHE

28.     The Development Credit Agreement states that three general conditions must be met at
the moment of the ERC mining tranche release: (i) the macroeconomic policy framework for
growth and poverty reduction must be consistent with the objectives of the program; (ii) progress
in the implementation     of the overall program must be satisfactory; and (iii)     the specific
conditionality with respect to the Mining sector must be satisfied.

29.     Overall   execution of the ERC Program.       The macroeconomic policy framework is
satisfactory and program execution is satisfactory as evidenced by (1) the completion of the first
review of the PRGF program by the IMF Executive Board, including the acceptance of waivers
for the performance criterion pertaining to net credit to government and for minor delays in
meeting some structural benchmarks, and satisfactory progress under the economic program
described in paragraphs 16-21 of the LDP; (2) satisfactory and timely progress in implementation
of sectoral elements of the ERC financed program described in LDP paragraphs 22-32; and (3)
continuing Government commitment to the natural resource sector reforms described in the LDP
paragraphs 33-44 and supported by the ERC. The effectiveness and forestry tranche releases
under the ERC have complied with the terms of Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 of the DCA.
Implementation progress in other sectors is described in the Annex to this memorandum.

30.     Mining    Sector Reform.   Progress in the carrying out of the Mining     Sector Reform
Program is satisfactory, as documented in the preceding paragraphs.



                                                 8

31.      Specific conditionality   pertaining  to the Mining   sector. The condition for the release
of the Mining     Sector Floating Tranche of the ERC, as set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 2 Part B, reads as follows:

"The Borrower has:

         1.      established by decree, in form and substancesatisfactory to the Association: (a) a
                 commission for the validation of mining titles and (b) an autonomous mining
                 registry, pursuant to paragraph 33 of the Letter of Development Policy.*

         2.      established by decree, in form an substance satisfactory to the Association, a
                 permanent committee in charge of: (a) overseeing the carrying out of the plan
                 referred to in paragraph 3 of this Part B, and (b) the restructuring of Gecamines,
                 pursuant to paragraph 33 of the Letter of Development Policy.

         3.      furnished evidence to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the
                 Association, of a voluntary separation plan of Gecamines' workers in form and
                 substancesatisfactory to the Association, pursuant to paragraph 33 of the Letter of
                 Development Policy".

32.      These conditionalities have been satisfied. Supporting documentation is as follows:

         (a) a certified copy of D&ret     048-C/2003 du 30 mars 2003 portant organisation et
                fonctionnement de la Commission de validation des droits miniers et carri&es;

         (b) a certified copy of D&ret   068/2003 du 3 avril2003     portant statuts, organisation et
                fonctionnement du Cadastre minier;

         (c) a certified copy of D&ret   035/2003 du 18 mars 2003 portant crkation, organisation
                 etfonctionnement du Comite' Permanent pour la restructuration de la Ge'camines;
                 and

         (d) an original letter from the Minister of Plan confirming the content of the Voluntary
                 Departure Program at G&mines         approved by the Government on March 11,
                 2003, which was sent to the Association on April 12,2003.

33.      The decreesmentioned in paragraph 32 were submitted to the Bank for comments prior
to their adoption, and are considered to be satisfactory They are in line with Government's policy
for the sector and the broad principles of the new Mining Code. They represent indispensable
milestones for the enforcement of the transparent management of mining permits and for the
coordination of Gecamines' restructuring process. The letter from the Minister of Plan confirms
the content of the program as discussed with the Bank and requests additional assistancefrom the


2    The LDP (para 33) states: "The government is currently reforming the legal and regulatory
     framework of the mining sector. A new mining code has been elaborated since 1998 and was
     submitted to Parliament in April 2002. The government has declared a moratorium on new
     mining concessions while awaiting the adoption of the new mining code. Next steps up to
     the end of December 2002 are as follows: Promulgation of the new mining code; preparation
     and adoption of new mining regulations; creation of a commission to validate mining titles;
     publication of a complete list of mining titles granted since 1995; publication of a complete
     list of mining titles that have been confirmed, contested or abandoned; and establish by
     decree a new mining cadastre as an administratively and financially autonomous agency."


                                                   9

proposed Private Sector Development Competitiveness project to finance the total cost of the
program of US$40 million.     This project is scheduled for Board presentation in July.

34.     Over and above the preceding legal obligations, fiduciary arrangements have been made
to ensure that (i) Gecamines staff who will be the beneficiaries of the departure packages are
properly identified; (ii) payments are made in full by an independent payment agency and only to
eligible beneficiaries; and (iii) following  IDA disbursements to a special account in BCC's
account at BIS, funds flow to the to the payment agency in a timely manner and appropriate
amounts. A memorandum of understanding between the Ministry           of Finance and the Central
Bank has been signed to regulate the disbursement of the funds. The Banque Commerciale du
Congo (BCDC) has been selected by the Ministry of Finance to execute the payments in the
cities of Lubumbashi, Likasi,     and Kolwesi.    A subsidiary Memorandum        of Understanding
between the Central Bank and BCDC has been signed stipulating the financial conditions and the
management procedures of the payments. IDA has seen a copy of the draft memorandum.
Supervision of the disbursements will be conducted by the Bank-supported independent Central
Coordinating   Office,   BCECO,    on behalf of the Ministry    of Finance. BCECO       has hired
internationally reputed independent auditors to do an ex-ante review of the list of beneficiaries
prepared by Gecamines, and another consultant is in the process of being hired to do an ex-post
audit of the payments. BCECO has established a branch in Katanga Province to monitor the
disbursements and make identity controls of all beneficiaries.

VI.     CONCLUSIONANDRECOMMENDATION

35.     All conditions for the release of the Mining Floating Tranche of the Economic Recovery
Credit   have been met. Overall       execution of the program is broadly satisfactory. The
macroeconomic framework is consistent with the objectives of the program. The Government of
the Democratic Republic of Congo has therefore been advised that the Mining Sector Floating
Tranche, in an amount of SDR 20 million is now available for disbursement.



Washington DC
June 18,2003




                                                 10


                               DEMOCRATICREPUBLICOFCONGO

                          Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 3660-DRC)

                              Release of the Mining    Sector Tranche

                                              ANNEX

                                           Introduction

 1.      As indicated in the text, this Annex reports on progress in: (a) forestry, (b) governance
and anti-corruption, (c) public finance management, (d) private sector development and public
enterprise reform, and (e) the financial sector.

                                          A.     Forestry

2.       Achievements under the ERC Forestry Floating Tranche. As indicated in paragraph 1,
the forestry floating   tranche was released in February 2003. The forest code that was
promulgated in August 2002 as part of the ERC-agreed measures offers a sound foundation to
further sector reform    and development. In keeping with         the new forest code, relevant
implementation texts need to be established to ensure transparency in the award of concessions
as foreseen by the new Code. In the meantime, some measures were taken to prevent short-term
rent seeking behaviors by investors and other actors in the logging business. These measures
included reviewing the validity of all recorded forest concession agreements (291) of which 143
covering 25 millions hectareswere abrogated due to noncompliance or term expiration.

3.       Developments since February 2003. In the February-April 2003 period, the Government
launched a comprehensive forest sector review covering the initial      stage of a forest taxation
reform. This reform aims explicitly      at improving   forest conservation and sustainable use,
enhancing sector governance and increasing forest-based revenues to the government and local
communities. The ongoing forest sector review adopts a participatory approach and involves
consultation with the private sector and civil society. Once endorsedby government, the findings
of this review will be used to inform relevant implementation decrees of the new Forest Code
and future finance laws and budget processes.

4.       The record of the past 15 months and the quality of dialogue with the Government on
forest sector development provide strong signs that DRC is committed to and capable of
politically sensitive and technically complex reforms in the sector. It also shows that external
support is key to keeping the reform process moving in the right direction. Nevertheless, forest
sector improvements     achieved in the past year are only first steps towards good sector
governance and long-term environmental and economic sustainability.           Important ancillary
measures initiated in parallel with the ERC forest measures are still to be completed. These are:
(a) the publication of the list of valid forest concession agreements; (b) the establishment of a
joint program by the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Finances and implementation
modalities to securethe collection of forest royalties.




                                                 11

                     B.       Reducing corruption    and improving    governance

5.       The I-PRSP consultations revealed that civil        society considers conflict,   corruption,
economic mismanagement, and the woefully inadequate level and quality of public services to be
among the principal causes of poverty in DRC. In this context, two workshops followed by a
high-level seminar on governance where held by the Ministry             of Plan and Reconstruction
together with the Ministry of Justice, with follow-on by the Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Budget with the support of the World Bank Institute in August/September 2002. Building on the
results thereof, an anti-corruption strategy and action plan was adopted by the Council of
Ministers in November 2002.

6.       The anti-corruption strategy has four strategic axes: (i) the establishment of a credible
legal regulatory and institutional framework to combat corruption; (ii) the implementation of
effective sanctions against corruption; (iii) the creation of effective national and international
anti-corruption partnerships; and (iv) reforms of key public sector institutions. Management and
implementation of the strategy will be the responsibility of the Inter-ministerial Committee in
charge of execution of the Poverty Reduction Strategy.

7.       With regard to the creation of the legal regulatory      and institutional  anticorruption
framework,     the authorities have: (i) created the Commission         against Corruption, Fraud,
Smuggling, and Money Laundering (August 2002); (ii) adopted the Code of Ethics and Good
Conduct applicable to all public officials (November 2002), for which application decrees are
currently being drawn up; and (iii) drafted an anticorruption law to be presented to Parliament3.
Sanctions will include withdrawal of licenses and operating agreements, and tines. Effective
partnerships will be fostered between the public sector, civil       society, the private sector and
international organizations specialized in the fight against corruption, such as Transparency
International and Interpol, and measures taken to improve public accessto relevant information.
Finally, reform of public institutions will include (i) civil    service reform, (ii) judicial  sector
reform, (iii)  steps to improve the quality of service delivery in health, education, rural
development and infrastructure, and (iv) improved public            finance management including
revenues, expenditures, procurement, and transparency and accountability at all levels.

8.       Civil service reform. A comprehensive reform of the public administration is needed to
reduce corruption, improve governance and public service delivery. Its strategy focuses on
redefining the key missions of priority ministries and public service agencies and upgrading the
productivity  and skill levels of their staff. In the meantime, with the strengthening of revenue
mobilization  and the streamlining of the civil service, salary levels will gradually increase from
their present relatively low levels. This will also help to reduce corruption, but broader incentives
and control systems to improve productivity and performance will be needed. Emphasis will
initially be on: (i) eliminating ghost workers from the civil service payroll, (ii) putting in place a
departures program       especially for civil   servants at retirement     age; (iii) undertaking a
comprehensive civil service census, and (iv) putting in place a functioning and secure integrated
personnel and payroll management system. These activities are planned for 2003.




3The anticorruption law is to be discussedby Parliament in the fourth quarter of 2003.


                                                   12

9.      Judicial   sector reform.   Key objectives in this area are (i) to render effective the
independence of the magistrature, in line with legislation regulating careers of public sector legal
professionals; (ii) to ensure the non-interference of political    and administrative authorities in
judicial decisions; (iii) install lower level civil courts (Tribunaux de Paix) and Commercial
Tribunals in provincial administrative centers; and (iv) apply the principle of meritocracy to
recruitment and promotion.

10.     Improving     the quality   of public  services and institutions.     Efforts are planned to
improve the quality of services needed to reduce poverty and promote private sector-led growth.
Major actions will include the preparation of an Institutional and Governance Review during
2003-04, with assistance from IDA, that will focus on the issue of basic service delivery. A
public expenditure tracking study in key sectors will assesshow well public expenditures are as
intended and verify that the funds arrive at the intended destinations (e.g., schools, health centers,
agricultural extension services, road maintenance units, etc.). This will be complemented by (a)
assessmentsby beneficiaries of the quality of services provided, and (b) assessmentsby service
providers of the difficulties encountered in the provision of services.

                                C.     Public Finance Management

11.     With   assistance from    the Bank and the IMF,       the Government is undertaking a
comprehensive reform of the tax system and its administration as well as public expenditure
management. On the revenue side, the primary purpose in the short run is to simplify             and
modernize the direct and indirect tax system as well as import duties. This simplification       will
result in an increase in the tax returns and in the broadening of the taxable base. The objective in
the medium term is to introduce competitive tariff reform and VAT. The World Bank Group is
also providing assistance in the area of forestry taxation. On the expenditure side, the key
objective is to restore and modernize the budget system from commitment to payment, both at
the central and local levels. In both cases,a complete overhaul and modernization of information
and computer systems is neededas well.

12.     The World Bank is also assisting the Government in a multi-year Public Expenditure
Review. The first review, performed in 2002, has two major goals. The first was to improve the
link between budget allocation, budget execution and reporting in the 2003 Budget Law, in order
that government expenditures be linked more closely to government intentions. The second was
to perform    in-depth studies of budget execution in three priority          sectors in which    the
Government's ability to implement        and to track implementation      will be important to the
international   community     under   the   enhanced HIPC      initiative:  health,  education   and
transport/infrastructure, and to develop an action plan for budget execution and tracking capacity.
The 2003 PER activities currently under preparation will extend the review to local local service
delivery and local oversight of such delivery.

13.     The 2002 Public Expenditure Review also focused on the Assessment and Action Plan
(AAP) and the sectors that would benefit from HIPC debt relief, and identified specific steps in
the short term      required   to  strengthen public    expenditure    management. Steps include
implementation of a new budget classification system and a rationalized expenditure chain, full
integration of externally financed projects in budget formulation and reporting, rationalization of
control and audit procedures aswell as the implementation of a new accounting system.


                                                  13

               D.    Private Sector Development and Public Enterprise Reform

14.     The government's economic reform program incorporates a vast component related to
private sector development and public enterprise reform. Major efforts are under way to improve
the overall business environment for private sector development, which is also essential to the
success of the reform of the public sector given that this will require significant private sector
participation in the form of management contracts, concessions, leasing arrangements and/or
equity participation.

15.     Private sector development. On the legal and regulatory front, a comprehensive reform
of the legal framework governing business operations and transactions is being prepared. On the
judicial  front, the establishment of commercial       tribunals  is proceeding apace, with    the
nomination of key personnel. A new labor Code was promulgated in 2002, and its application
decrees are under preparation. A review of corporate taxation has been completed in March 2003,
on the basis of which a set of reforms and an action plan will be prepared and implemented
before the end of 2003. A one stop-shop approach is being favored through the National
Investment Promotion Agency (ANAPI),        which was created in 2002 and should help simplify
enterprise creation and approval of investments under the Investment Code. It is expected that an
audit of these and other key business related procedures would be completed by November 2003.
Finally, an audit of the government's internal debt to enterprises should be completed by end-
September 2003 and will give rise to an action plan for clearance of net government arrears, i.e
taking account of tax arrears on the part of enterprises. It is expected that an internal debt
restructuring plan should be in place in November 2003.

16.     Public Enterprise Reform. The government's economic reform program includes a vast
reform of the public enterprise sector, with the objective of ensuring that basic services are
provided on a sustainable basis and to a larger segment of the population, while reducing the
drain on public finances resulting from public enterprises mismanagement. An Inter-ministerial
Committee will manage the reform, with day-to-day management being handled by the steering
committee for the reform of public enterprises (COPIREP) that was created by a Presidential
Decree on October 31, 2002. Personnel selection for the Executive Committee of COPIREP will
be completed in June 2003. In parallel, operational and financial audits of the enterprises were
begun in mid-November 2002, with results delivered to Government in April 2003. From this
basis, building   upon existing sectoral policies, and with      the support of sectoral groups
representing the enterprise under reform, employees, trade unions and sectoral experts, COPIREP
will elaborate reform strategies for each enterprise. Efforts beginning in July 2003 will focus on
SNEL (electricity), SNCC (railroads), OCPT (telecommunications), LAC (the national airline)
and RVA (the Airports Authority).

                                     E.      Financial Sector

17.     A central part of the government's reform program pertains to the financial sector, with
the primary emphasis to date being put on the (a) reforming the legal and regulatory framework
for the banking sector; (b) restructuring the central bank and improving its management; and (c)
restructuring commercial banks.




                                                14

18.     The legal and regulatory framework.         In early 2002, the Parliament adopted a series of
laws: (a) granting independence to the Central Bank; and (b) governing the banking sector
including financial cooperatives. A presidential decree also prohibits the Central Bank from
executing payments that have not been approved by the Ministry of Finances.

19.     Restructuring     the   Central    Bank     and   improving    its  management.     Restoring
sustainable economic growth prospects will require, inter alia, restructuring of the Central Bank
and substantially improving its management. Estimates for 2002 show that its financial operating
account is structurally in deficit, its sources of revenues are low whereas current expenditure and
the cost of producing banknotes need to be financed. The BCC financial situation in 2002 has
deteriorated more than envisaged under the program, and at end-September 2002, its net financial
loss amounted to about 0.3 percent of GDP, compared to 0.1 percent of GDP in the program. To
avoid monetary financing of the deficit, the projected net financial loss will continue to be
consolidated within the government budget.

20.     To redressthis situation, the government is receiving substantial technical assistancefrom
the IMF. In addition, external audits for 2000 and 2001 financed by IDA have recently been
completed, which has led to the replacement of four department directors. In addition, an action
plan to addressthe major problems has been drawn up. The key issues to be addressedconcern:
(i) lapses in accounting procedures; (ii) management of international reserves; (iii) internal audit
procedures; and (iv) the control and supervision of the banking system. The external audit was
complemented by an IMF safeguardsmission that took place in October 2002 and concluded that
significant vulnerabilities exist, especially in the BCC's external audit mechanism, the financial
reposting framework and internal control mechanisms, and the resulting recommendations have
been included in a detailed action plan which the BCC has already started to execute. Looking
forward, there will be (i) annual external audits of the BCC accounts in general, and (ii) half
yearly audits of the levels of domestic assets,net foreign assets,and net credit to the government.

21.     Commercial       bank   restructuring.    The government's      strategy also calls for:    (i)
conducting audits of all banks; (ii) liquidating banks which are not viable; (iii) restructuring those
that are undercapitalized but are deemed viable. This will involve updating audits of four banks,
namely the Commercial Bank of Congo (BCDC); the Union of Congolese Banks (UBC); and the
International Bank for Credit (BIC) and Standard Chartered Bank (Stanbic) as well as conducting
audits of four banks which have not yet been audited, namely the Bank of Commerce and
Development (BCD), Citibank, the International Bank for Congo (BIAC); and Fransabank. On
the basis of these audits, restructuring strategies will then be prepared for public sector banks, but
those that are judged insolvent and illiquid     will be closed down. Private sector banks will be
required to sign Memoranda of Understanding with the banking regulator for the preparation of
actions plans for restructuring and the restoration of financial equilibria. All banks will be
required to come into compliance with prudential norms. These audits are now expected to be
completed by end-August 2003, and the restructuring strategies/action plans prepared by end-
December 2003. In this vein, the authorities have initiated liquidation proceedings for the New
Bank of Kinshasa (NBK) and the Agricultural Credit Bank (BCA) in the last quarter of 2002 and
for the Bank of Commerce and External Trade (BCCE) in March 2003.




                                                   15

