                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29040

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-36600)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$450 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                                 FOR AN

                                   ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT




                                              June 18, 2004




Africa Region
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit (AFTP3)




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 18, 2004)

                            Currency Unit = Congolese Francs (CDF)
                                393 CDF = US$ 1

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1   June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB                                      African Development Bank
BADEA                                     Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BCECO                                     Bureau Centrale et de Coordination
BIS                                       Bank for International Settlements
CFAA                                      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR                                      Country Procurement Assessment Review
DRC                                       Democratic Republic of Congo
ECOFIN                                    Economic and Financial Committee
EIB                                       European Investment Bank
ERC                                       Economic Recovery Credit
HIPC                                      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD                                      International Bank for Reconstruction and
                                          Development
IDA                                       International Development Association
IFAD                                      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF                                       International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP                                    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LDP                                       Letter of Development Policy
OECD                                      Organization for Economic Cooperation and
                                          Development
ONATRA                                    Office Nationale de Transports [Parastatal firm]
OPEC                                      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PRGF                                      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
SMP                                       Staff-Monitored Program
TSS                                       Transitional Support Strategy
VAT                                       Value Added Tax



                           Vice President:    C. Madavo
                        Country Director      E. Mbi
                         Sector Manager       C. Atta Mills
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      B. Horton and E. Nelson

                         CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
                                 Economic Recovery Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27

Project ID: P057293                                                  Project Name: Economic Recovery Credit
Team Leader: Eric R. Nelson                                          TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 18, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Economic Recovery Credit                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-36600
   Country/Department: CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Banking (32%); Central government administration (25%); Mining
                            and other extractive (23%); General industry and trade sector (16%);
                            Forestry (4%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Other public sector
                            governance (P); Public expenditure, financial management and
                            procurement (P); Standards and financial reporting (S);
                            Macroeconomic management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/17/2001                                     Effective:                           07/03/2002
     Appraisal: 04/15/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/13/2002                                      Closing:                            06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                 Cadman Atta Mills                              Cadman Atta Mills
Team Leader at ICR:             Eric R. Nelson                                 Brendan Horton and Eric Nelson
ICR Primary Author:             Stephanie Abdulin and John W.
                                Otieno


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


3.1.1.  The main development objective of the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) was to help advance
the TSS goals of supporting economic stabilization and supporting structural reforms, to lay the basis for
recovery. The Bank's objectives as defined in the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) were, on the
whole, broadly consistent with those articulated in the Government's strategy documents, which
emphasized the need to stabilize the economy and embark on a recovery effort, with the ultimate goal of
combating widespread poverty in the country. Poverty alleviation is a major development policy
objective of the Democratic Republic of Congo, as defined in its medium-term program (I-PRSP). The
Government launched in 2001 wide-ranging reforms, which are described in the Government's LDP.

3.1.2.  The ERC provided specific financial support to three government programs: (i) arrears clearance
and support for high visibility public works, (ii) the reform of the forestry sector, and (iii) the reform of the
mining sector and the mining parastatal Gécamines. It had three tranches: (i) an initial tranche that was
released upon credit effectiveness on 3 July 2002; (ii) a forestry sector tranche, which was released on
14 February 2003; and (iii) a mining sector tranche, which was released on 18 June 2003. The first or
core tranche amounted to SDR 328.4 million (US$ 410 million equivalent at the time of negotiations;
US$436.4 million at disbursement); the forestry sector tranche was SDR 12 million (US$15 million
equivalent at the time of negotiations, US$16.5 million at the time of disbursement); and the mining
sector tranche was SDR 20 million (US$25 million equivalent at the time of negotiatons; US$28.2 million
at disbursement). The design and preparation of the ERC included extensive borrower participation.


Country Context and the Bank Response

Country Context

3.1.3.  The objectives of the TSS, and hence the ERC, need to be assessed in the context of political,
economic and institutional conditions prevailing in the country.

3.1.4.  During three decades (1965-97), the country's economy expanded rapidly through the 1970s and
then declined sharply from the early 1980s through the fall of the regime of Mobutu Sese Seko. It was
characterized by corruption, mismanagement and collapse of the State. The decline was punctuated by
riots and plundering by an unpaid military in the early 1990s, that destroyed much of the productive
capital. Mobuto's regime was overthrown in 1997 by the forces of Laurent Kabila. Conflict broke out
anew in 1998 and drew in up to seven other nations as well as militias opposing neighboring
governments. Instability in the DRC had clear consequences for its direct neighbors, seven of which (out
of nine) had experienced war or severe civil disturbance over the last decade. Rebel movements of
Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda all had rear bases in the DRC. In this context, the stabilization of the
DRC was key to sustainable peace in the Great Lakes Region.

3.1.5.  The destruction and decay of physical and social infrastructure caused by the conflict which
broke out anew in 1998 contributed to between 1.5 and 3 million deaths since 1997, most due to
deprivation and disease. Many cities were looted during the conflict, infrastructure and buildings were
destroyed completely, and public services no longer had the means to operate. The collapse of transport
infrastructure undid the connection between markets. In many parts of the country, farmers were no
longer able to commercialize their surplus while urban food prices were high. Productive activities in
practically all sectors came to a halt or seriously slowed down and economic output declined
precipitously; the bulk of production was conducted in the informal sector of the economy. Social
conditions also deteriorated considerably, with rural-urban exodus resulting in population explosion in
Kinshasa, whose population doubled to about 6­10 million people, representing a fifth of the country's
total population of about 58 million. As a result of population expansion in the capital and other cities,
urban living conditions deteriorated considerably, with overcrowding causing serious inadequacies in the
provision of basis needs such as food, transport, housing, education, health and water supply facilities.
Mining activity had declined due to lack of infrastructure maintenance, trade in rebel-occupied territories



                                                       - 2 -

was untaxed and trade between regions ceased, forestry resources were taxed according to an obsolete
regime which permitted individuals to enrich themselves at the expense of the community and the State,
and a large part of pre-war economic activity had reverted to the informal sector.

3.1.6.   The dislocation of public administration resulted in large fiscal evasion. By 2000, Government
resources had shrunk to around 5­7 percent of a greatly reduced GDP as a result of collapse of the
economy and to disruption of the internal market by the conflict. On the expenditure side, social needs
placed a heavy but unmet demand on the budget.

3.1.7.   Upon taking office in January 2001 following the death of his father, Joseph Kabila announced
that his three main objectives were to end the conflict, to stabilize the economy and to restore normal
relations with the Bretton Woods institutions. He almost immediately traveled to Washington where he
reiterated his priorities. At that time the DRC was in non-accrual status with the World Bank Group. The
country's total arrears were on the order of US$10.1 billion dollars, of which about US$330 million were
owed to the Bank, US$500 million to the IMF and US$800­900 million to the African Development Bank.
The rest was owed to other multilateral, bilateral and commercial creditors.


The Bank Response

3.1.8.   The Bank and the IMF responded to Joseph Kabila's opening with an immediate mission to
Kinshasa. The Bank had established regular contacts and policy discussion under the previous President,
and moved forward with a program drawing on that knowledge.

3.1.9.   On July 31, 2001 the Board discussed the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS). The TSS
included: the provision of exceptional post-conflict IDA grant support for urgent rehabilitation measures,
the planning and development of a comprehensive recovery program, and donor coordination in the
period prior to the clearance of arrears. Thus, the TSS was initially underpinned by a US$50 million grant
for an Early Emergency Recovery Project (EERP), also approved on July 31, 2001. The EERP funded
reconstruction of priority basic infrastructure, activities in the fight against HIV/AIDS, community based
projects, and technical assistance to assist the program supported by the ERC and SMP. The Economic
Recovery Credit of SDR360.4 million (US$450 million) provided DRC with foreign exchange following
arrears clearance to IBRD and IDA, as well as support for priority policy reforms. Following effectiveness,
DRC would request IDA to repay the bridge loans to those countries which had lent it funds to clear the
arrears. The Emergency Multi-Sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (EMRRP) would respond
to the emergency reconstruction and rehabilitation needs of the country, while the Private Sector
Development and Competitiveness Project would provide technical assistance for investment, and for
the mining sector.

3.1.10. The IMF responded with a staff monitored program (SMP), which was discussed by its Board on
July 13, 2001. Under the SMP, the DRC was required to make small monthly "good faith" payments to
an escrow account at the BIS, in lieu of debt service to the IMF, the World Bank, and the African
Development Bank. The SMP, if properly implemented, would be followed by a 3 year PRGF, which was
in fact approved on [10] June 2002. Some of the resources were used to clear DRC's arrears by repaying
bridge loans DRC had obtained to pay the Fund.

3.1.11. The African Development Bank (AfDB), lacked the resources to proceed via a bridge loan
mechanism to help DRC clear its arrears with the AfDB. The AfDB thus worked closely with the World
Bank to design another approach to the DRC's arrears problem. Under their program, the ADF trustees
agreed to the use of ADF 9 grant resources to clear arrears on ADF credits, while a program of partial
repayment (with bilateral donor support) and partial restructuring was used to consolidate AfDB loans into
a new loan with the same net present value--which satisfied the agencies which rate AfDB bonds--but
required low or no net payments before the HIPC Decision Point. In the meantime the AfDB began
grant-funded activities.

3.1.12. The suspension of lending by IFAD, EIB, OPEC Fund, and BADEA was similarly addressed by
each institution. Bilateral creditors agreed to clear arrears as part of the HIPC process. The World Bank
coordinated and supported these efforts with the institutions' shareholders and managers.

3.1.13. The context for the ERC was thus as a key part of a joint World Bank-IMF exercise to help



                                                     - 3 -

normalize the DRC's relations with creditors. The Preliminary Document under the Enhanced HIPC
process was approved at the same time as the PRGF and ERC in June 2002. In the case of World Bank
and the IMF, the arrears clearance approach was through bridge loans. The AfDB workout depended
upon a partial payment of arrears, in part thanks to bilateral grant assistance, and re-profiling of the
remainder. Workouts for arrears clearance to other multilateral creditors were worked out in the context
of the HIPC process. Bilateral creditors provided relief in a September 2002 Paris Club meeting, and
increased their assistance in the context of the HIPC Decision Point. Decision point was reached 12
months later on 24/25 July 2003, three months later than originally planned. At this point all creditors,
multilateral and bilateral alike, provided additional relief as per the HIPC initiative.


3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1.  Program objectives as originally defined in the official program document to IDA Board of
Directors were not modified during the life of the program and the program remained focused on helping
the country to resume beneficial ties with its major creditors through arrears clearance and backing
urgent reforms in the priority sectors, mining and forestry, which are the main engines of economic
growth and sources of wealth needed to finance poverty focused social development programs.


3.3 Original Components:


3.3.1.  The ERC program was built upon the reforms in process and supported the Government's efforts
to pursue policy and structural reforms needed to (i) improve governance and reduce corruption with the
objectives of fostering private sector development and increasing the supply of public services; (ii)
improve public sector financial management, especially regarding public expenditures; (iii) continue its
reform and restructuring of the public enterprise sector, (iv) begin the reform of the financial sector,
especially the restructuring of commercial banks; (v) support policy actions in the forestry sector in
anticipation of implementation of new regulations; and (vi) provide support to urgent special actions
within the mining sector that support prospects for fostering restructuring of the sector. While supporting
the broad program, it provided specific financial support to three components of the government
program: (i) arrears clearance and the resumption of development assistance (which provided support
for high visibility public works); (ii) the reform of the forestry sector; and (iii) the reform of the mining
sector.

3.3.2.  In parallel with the reforms being supported by the credit, reforms in governance, public
enterprises, public sector financial management and the financial sector proceeded as an integral part of
the medium-term program defined in the I-PRSP and recapitulated in the TSS, and are treated as
objectives here. Although the Bank Group focused on the core components of arrears clearance and the
natural resources sector, the other components of the program are at different stages of implementation,
some with the support (through projects, technical assistance and policy dialogue) of the Bank and other
donors, to improve the enabling environment for the Congo's economic recovery and growth.

3.3.3.  To avoid repetition, the objectives of each component are described below, together with their
outcomes, in Section 4.1.


3.4 Revised Components:


3.4.1.  The components of the program remained unchanged. Although only three components were
financed under the program, the other reform processes continue to form medium-term components of
the structural adjustment process.




                                                      - 4 -

ERC Program Design

3.4.2.   The program was designed to meet the immediate and urgent needs of stabilization and
recovery. The first immediate need was to empower the government to restore its ties with the Bank and
other major multilateral lenders through arrears clearance in a concerted arrangement. This was also a
statutory requirement on the part of the DRC and constituted a sine qua non for a resumption of ties with
the major multilateral lenders. Secondly, the program was designed to provide the foundation for an
uncorrupted and broad-based recovery in the main income generating natural resource sectors, forestry
and mining. In order to ascertain the Government's commitment to reforms in the key sectors, the
release of proceeds of the IDA Credit was associated with the fulfillment of certain critical conditions for
success of the reform. For the mining sector, this included the elaboration and adoption of an enabling
legislation and restructuring of Gécamines including retrenchment of surplus employees. For the forestry
sector component, the prescribed condition precedent to disbursement was the enactment of an enabling
legislation for forestry sector reforms.

3.4.3.   Lastly, the program was designed to be fast disbursing. To achieve this end, a flexible
mechanism was adopted whereby floating forestry and mining tranches could be disbursed in any order
to the extent that the conditions were fulfilled. With regard to arrears clearance, the BIS acted as an
intermediary between the bridge loan providers and DRC and therefore the disbursement of the proceeds
of the ERC for arrears clearance was made to BIS as soon as the arrears to the Bank were cleared.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1.   The quality is rated as satisfactory. Objectives, outcomes and outputs were simple and clearly
defined. Objectives were attained, and programs were implemented.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


4.1.1.   The ERC forms part of a medium-term development program. The objectives defined for the
components of the program were articulated in this light. Since the program's duration was twelve
months, its outputs are classified in three parts. The first part related to program deliverables envisaged
in the immediate or near term, upon the declaration of credit effectiveness. The second part concerns
those outputs expected to be generated within the life of the credit. The third part relates to outputs that
continue to be generated after closure of the credit.

4.1.2.   Most of the program component objectives are qualitative in nature and unquantifiable. Outputs
generated in the immediate short-term in the case of the core components of the program include the
following: (i) empowerment of the DRC, a country in default on its debt, to restore beneficial ties with the
international financial community; (ii) enactment of legislation supporting reform of the forestry sector;
(iii) enactment of legislation designed to reinvigorate the mining sector including first steps for
restructuring Gécamines, the mining parastatal. The achievement of these outputs was made possible
for the first, facilitated for the others, by requiring their implementation as a prerequisite to release of
tranches in the disbursement of IDA Credit proceeds.

4.1.3.   This section briefly describes each objective together with the outcome for the objective. See
Section 4.2. for a detailed description of outputs.

4.1.4.   The ERC objectives set at appraisal were realized. Much more was done in addition to
satisfaction of conditionalities. Conditionalities served as performance indicators on the road to achieving
long term objectives.




                                                      - 5 -

Arrears clearance and high visibility public works (effectiveness tranche)

4.1.5.    Objectives. The objectives of the program supported by the the funds released at credit
effectiveness were to: (i) reimburse bridge loan providers that helped DRC clear arrears, (ii) provide
additional balance of payments support; and (iii) to permit the government to undertake high visibility
public works. The goal of the first sub-component was to reimburse the US$338 million which partners
had provided as a bridge loan used to clear the DRC's arrears to IBRD and IDA as a condition for credit
effectiveness. The second sub-component financed essential imports subject to a negative list. The
counterpart funds were used to finance (i) debt service (US$70 million) and (ii) urgent public expenditure
programs (US$42 million) that would make stabilization and recovery visible to the people of the DRC.
ECOFIN and the Ministry of Plan were responsible for the coordination of these works.

4.1.6.    Outcomes. The desired outcome of the program resulting from the effectiveness tranche was: (i)
the normalization of the DRC's relations with IDA, which occurred through arrears clearance; and (ii) the
acceptance by the population of the heavy and difficult reform agenda, which would result in
improvement of their living conditions via high visibility public works (The Government decided to audit
the public works contracts to ensure outcomes were achieved). This tranche was released in a timely
manner, immediately following Credit effectiveness. All outcomes were attained, and implementation is
rated as satisfactory.


Forestry sector reform (Forestry tranche)

4.1.7.    Objectives. The objectives of the program supported by the forestry tranche were: (i) to create
the foundation for improved governance in the management of forests and natural resources; and (ii) to
increase the contribution of the sector to the country's reconstruction and economic growth while helping
conserve the environment, by annulling the rights allocated under a legacy of past bad governance; and
(iii) revising and modernizing the Forestry Code.

4.1.8.    Outcomes. The desired outcomes of the program resulting from the forestry tranche were: (i) the
establishment of a modern legal framework to serve as the basis for further forestry sector reforms; and
(ii) the elimination of important opportunities for rent-seeking, via cancellation of non-compliant
concession contracts, a moratorium on new contracts pending passage into law of the new code, and
simplification of the tax system. The forestry tranche was released in a timely manner, immediately
following the fulfillment of conditions, on 14 February 2003. Progress towards outcomes is substantial,
but proceeding more slowly than forecast, because they are difficult and politically contentious.
Nevertheless, outcomes are satisfactory at this time.


Mining sector reform (Mining tranche)

4.1.9.    Objectives. The program supported by the mining tranche called for: (i) reform of the legal and
regulatory framework of the mining sector, and (ii) a voluntary departures program (10,000 workers) from
Gécamines. This tranche partially financed the costs associated with the voluntary departure program,
where miners leaving the firm are paid a retrenchment package. A new mining law was enacted in March
2003, and a cadastre based on the new law was implemented in June 2003.

4.1.10. Outcomes. The outcomes of the program resulting from the mining tranche were: (i) regulatory
and legal reform, which involved the creation of a modern mining code, serving as the basis for further
sectoral reforms and helping attract new private foreign investments in the mining sector; and (ii) the
restructuring of Gécamines. The departures program was highly successful in terms of its immediate
objectives; and both the fiduciary arrangements and the participatory approach to formulating the
program have been cited as best practice. Regarding the success of the re-insertion program, which is
part of the Government's program of departures and reinsertion, there are encouraging signs. Time will
tell whether the re-insertions part will continue to be successful. Overall, the outcome of this tranche is
rated as satisfactory. The mining tranche was released in a timely manner, on 18 June 2003.




                                                    - 6 -

Other components

4.1.11. The Government program covered in the LDP, covered four further components: (i) governance;
(ii) private enterprise reform and private sector development; (iii) financial sector reform; and (iv) public
expenditure management.


         (i) Governance

         The objective was improvement of economic governance in order to facilitate economic
recovery, by (i) strengthening the rule of law, the judiciary, and the legal and regulatory environment for
private sector development; (ii) reducing corruption in the public sector; and (iii) improving public sector
(financial) management with a view to improving access to basic services in key areas including health,
education, and social protection.

         The outcomes are not yet visible, because they are expected to occur over the longer term and
complementary measures are still underway.


         (ii) Public enterprise reform and private sector development

         The objectives of this component were: (i) ensuring that basic services were provided to the
largest possible segment of the population and on a sustainable basis; (ii) reducing fiscal pressure
caused by public enterprises' mismanagement; and (iii) improving the overall business environment for
private sector development.

         While the reforms has been associated with a marked increase in private foreign and local
interest in direct investment, outcomes are not yet visible as they will be realized in the longer term.


         (iii) Financial sector reform

         The objective was to recreate a financial system capable of fulfilling its role in private sector
finance in a sustainable manner, by (i) reforming the legal and regulatory framework for the banking
sector; (ii) restructuring the central bank and improving its management; and (iii) restructuring
commercial banks.

         The outcomes of this component were: (i) a stronger legal and regulatory framework on paper;
and (ii) the elimination of non-viable public and private banks from the system, and establishment of
restructuring plans for remaining banks. Despite these reforms, in reality the financial system remains
fairly fragile.


         (iv) Public expenditure management

         The objective of this component was to ensure the transparent, effective and accountable use of
public funds, in order to restore acceptable revenue generation and expenditure management practices
and to regularize the budget planning and monitoring processes. On the revenue side, this included
simplifying and modernizing the direct and indirect tax system as well as import duties, in order to
increase tax returns and broaden the taxable base, and, in the medium term, introducing competitive
tariff reform and VAT. On the expenditure side, this entailed restoring and modernizing the budget
system (from commitment to payment, and both at the central and local levels), and beginning the steps
to attaining ful international fiduciary standards.

         The outcomes have been: (i) substantial progress in the restoration of the expenditure chain, (ii)
new nomenclature and functional classification to track poverty-reducing expenditures, and (iii) better
capacity in tracing expenditures from commitment to payment leading to greater transparency in budget
reporting. The government is only beginning a decentralization process which will require tracking of




                                                    - 7 -

budget execution at the local level; it is premature to judge this component.



4.1.12. In sum, the objectives were met and the outcomes were attained. Implementation is rated as
satisfactory.


4.2 Outputs by components:


4.2.1.  The various outputs envisaged under the program have been realized. These programs were
well designed and executed. Execution of these programs is rated as satisfactory.


Arrears clearance and high visibility public works (Effectiveness tranche)

4.2.2.  The outputs of the core program were: (i) arrears clearance, achieved on July 3, 2002; and (ii) an
increase in the government's development expenditures on urgent public works with a visible positive
impact on the well being of citizens, achieved over several months (Of these expenditures, 38.5 percent
were for roads and 33.4 percent for health and education. Classified by type, 69 percent were used for
the construction, 21 percent for equipment, and 10 percent for studies and supervision, program
management and contingencies); and (iii) monitoring and evaluation in the form of a consultant's report
indicating that the outputs were realized. This program was key in establishing credibility for the DRC's
reengagement with the IFIs by showing visible results to the population.


Forestry sector reform (Forestry tranche)

4.2.3.  The outputs of the program supported by the forestry tranche were: (i) the adoption of the new
Forestry Code; and (ii) the termination of rights granted under a legacy of poor governance.

4.2.4.  The new Forestry Code adopted in August 2002 introduces the following innovations, among
others: (i) mandatory adoption of forest management plans for all production forests; (ii) transparent and
competitive allocation of forest resources for commercial use; (iii) transfer of 40 percent of area-based
forest fees to local governing bodies and communities for social infrastructure and rural development;
(iv) recognition of the rights of local communities to directly manage forest concessions ; and (v)
broadening the scope of use of productive forest land from traditional timber exploitation to the trading of
environmental services, conservation-based management, bio-prospecting and other non-destructive
economic uses that can contribute to local poverty alleviation and global ecological sustainability.

4.2.5.  The legacy of poor governance was terminated through: (i) the re-establishment of public control
over forest land allocated under the old code; (ii) a moratorium on new forest contracts until passage of
the new code; and (iii) simplification of the tax system. The following actions were initiated prior to the
release of the effectiveness tranche in July 2002, and continue to be pursued:

(i)     To re-establish public control over forest land, in March-April 2002, the Ministry of Environment
reviewed 291 forest contracts, and canceled 163 contracts which were not in line with the provisions in
the new Forestry Code, which represented 25.5 million hectares (a reform that is unprecedented in the
forest sector in Africa). The remaining contracts will continue to be examined in the same manner during
2004­2005. International recruitment for an independent observer is currently underway.

(ii)    The moratorium on new forest contracts was imposed in May 2002 until such time as the new,
more transparent and more economically efficient allocation mechanisms would be in place. However,
the moratorium has been breeched since May 2002, with an estimated 9 million hectares having been
allocated illegally. These cases will be addressed by the Government with the assistance of an
independent observer.

(iii)   Simplification of the tax system is proceeding. Until 2003, low area-based forestry fees
encouraged large-scale speculation on forest land, costing the DRC a loss in potential revenues from
area fees, estimated at US$ 5-20 million a year. The heavy para-fiscal burden imposed upon operators



                                                     - 8 -

by monopolistic public transport enterprises further exacerbated the poor investment climate and low tax
collection rates (42 percent of amounts due in 2002). Starting in 2002, the Government conducted a
comprehensive economic review of the forestry sector which led to the adoption of major reforms. The
interministerial decree of March 17, 2004 reduces immediately the overall forest taxation burden from 20
percent to 16 percent, in order to stimulate sector recovery, investment and job creation, then gradually
shifts the fiscal burden from para-fiscal transport charges to area-based forestry fees, which are easier to
collect and 40 percent of which are retained by local governing bodies. Area-based fees are also
expected to discourage future speculation on the DRC's vast forest land. In particular, this decree
increases the area fee from US$280 in 2002 to US$100,000 in 2007 for an average concession of
200,000 hectares; and reduces the parastatal ONATRA's transit fees from US$17 per cubic meter in
2002 to US$5 in 2006.


Mining sector reform (Mining tranche)

4.2.6.   The outputs of the program supported by the mining tranche were: (i) the approval by Parliament
of the new mining code in June 2002; (ii) the restructuring of Gécamines.

(i)      Following the approval by Parliament of the new mining code in June 2002, the Government
issued a series of implementation decrees covering: mining regulations; establishment of an autonomous
mining registry, which was created but has had difficulties in operating; and           establishment of a
commission for the validation of mining titles. The commission has been created but is not yet
operational.

(ii)     The restructuring of Gécamines was launched with the establishment by Presidential Decree in
April 2003 of a permanent committee in charge of overseeing the restructuring of Gécamines. However,
the committee never became operational. With the creation of COPIREP and the establishment of the
Government's Economic and Financial Commission (ECOFIN) under the Vice-President in charge of
Economic Affairs, the Government decided that it would be more pragmatic for ECOFIN to oversee the
restructuring of Gécamines, with COPIREP serving as the Secretariat of the process. The successful
establishment, and then completion of the Gécamines voluntary departures program was the second
crucial steap. The Government put in place a credible financial management system involving
Gécamines and BCECO, the fiduciary arrangements of which ensured that the intended beneficiaries
received the right amount of money and were paid in a timely manner. This enabled the orderly voluntary
departure of 10,000 workers from Gécamines, completed in January 2004. It is important to note that
there have been no complaints regarding the Gécamines departures program. However, its success
created a problem: as the departing personnel included teachers and health care professionals, the
continuity of services in these fields was threatened. Further support to the restructuring of Gécamines is
being provided under the Private Sector Development and Competitiveness Project.


Other components

4.2.7.   The Government's commitment and conviction to reform has continued. The rest of its program
described in the LDP has worked well. The outputs for these other components were as follows:


         (i) Governance

         The outputs were a series of anti-corrupton measures: (i) a draft anti-corruption law, which will
include withdrawal of licenses and operating agreements and fines; (ii) adoption of the Code of Ethics
and Good Conduct in November 2002, applicable to all public officials; (iii) creation of the Commission
against Corruption, Fraud, Smuggling and Money Laundering in August 2002; (iv) development and
implementation of a comprehensive strategy for improving governance and reducing corruption; (v)
declaration by the President of the Republic of his personal wealth as an encouragement to other senior
officials to do the same.




                                                     - 9 -

         (ii) Public enterprise reform and private sector development

         The outputs of this component were: (i) an audit of all state-owned enterprises during the first
semester of 2001 to identify major governance issues, and the dismissal of several directors of such
enterprises; (ii) completion of seminar and workshop on the issue of reform, held in September 2001,
which led to the preparation of a work program for a reform strategy; (iii) creation of a National
Investment Promotion Agency, in order to simplify enterprise creation and approval of investments under
the Investment Code, together with the establishment of a steering committee (COPIREP) in June 2002,
in order to prepare and implement public enterprise reform; (iv) establishment of sectoral working groups
for identifying reform options for each enterprise within each sector; (v) conducting of a two-step financial
and technical audit of each public enterprise, at end September 2002, which was followed up by the
elaboration of the reform strategy, which is on-going; (vi) revamping of the legal framework for public
enterprises and the law for public-private partnerships; (vii) improvement of the business environment
via a review of the fiscal regime; (viii) establishment of commercial tribunals; (ix) promulgation of a new
Labor Code in 2002, and on-going preparation of application decrees; (x) completion of a review of
corporate taxation in March 2003; and (xi) auditing of the stock of internal debt at end December 2001,
with a view to settling it with private creditors.


         (iii) Financial sector reform

         This component has ten outputs: (i) creation of new laws on banking and on credit unions
(February 2002) strengthened the legal environment for financial institutions and provided greater
independence to the supervisory authority; (ii) promulgation in May 2002 of the new Central Bank
charter, which assures the independence of the Central Bank as regards the conducting of monetary and
exchange rate policy; (iii) completion of a financial audit of central bank operations at end December
2002; (iv) liquidation of three non-viable public sector banks in September 2002; (v) liquidation of 5
identified private sector banks; (vi) submission of restructuring plans to COREBAC by four financial
institutions, at end December 2003; (vii) limiting of government shareholding in banks to under 20
percent; (viii) adoption of an overall financial sector strategy at end June 2003; (ix) completion of further
audits of remaining banks in August 2003, which determined which banks would be liquidated, privatized
or restructured, and the conditions under which this can be done; (x) re-establishment of the fungibility of
base money so that banks are able to convert free reserves at the Central Bank into banknotes.


         (iv) Public expenditure management

         The outputs were: (i) drafting of a budget law for 2003 that has improved estimates for budget
allocations for recurrent and capital expenditures; (ii) regularization of budget preparation execution,
accounting and expenditure tracking procedures and the termination of all off-budget spending; (iii)
implementation of a new budget expenditures classification system in July 2002; (iv) operation of a new
expenditure chain since October 2003; (v) undertaking of a poverty expenditure tracking assessment at
end December 2002; and (vi) implementation of information link between the Treasury and the Central
Bank completely operational in May 2004.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development was not the primary objective of the program.




                                                     - 10 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:


5.1.1.   Uncontrollable external factors that were likely to influence program implementation related to
the domestic and regional geopolitical situation in the DRC, external resource flows (development
assistance and foreign direct investment), world market conditions for the DRC's major mineral exports
and the economic and fiscal impact of natural catastrophes. All these factors were present and affected
program implementation.

5.1.2.   Favorable factors included the following: (i) During the period of program implementation
(2002-2003), there was relative stability and progress overall in conflict resolution, both internally and
broadly within the sub-region, providing a conducive environment for implementing stabilization and
recovery objectives of the ERC; (ii) the emergence of a progressive leadership reaching out to the
international community for assistance greatly inspired the international donor and investor community to
begin a process of restoration of economic cooperation and renewed lending to the DRC; (iii) the
apparent recovery of mineral commodity prices following years of sharp fluctuations gave further
stimulus to investment in measures intended to reinvigorate the nation's mineral production, particularly
for diamonds, copper and cobalt (in addition, favorable results of petroleum exploration may provide
additional impetus to external investors to step up their intervention in the country).

5.1.3.   Factors that threatened the successful implementation of the program included the following: (i)
continued pockets of violent conflict in some resource-rich parts of the country slowed down economic
output in those areas and distracted Congolese and international policy makers; (ii) political instability in
neighboring countries had adverse economic and political spillover effects; (iii) the downturn in the
economies of OECD countries potentially reduced the level of foreign investment flows from
industrialized countries and may have reduced development assistance commitments; and (iv)
deprivation in parts of the country from starvation, disease and volcanic eruption, causing serious
bottlenecks in human resource development and human capital. On the whole, negative factors were
mostly localized and outweighed by positive ones in their effects on program implementation.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:


5.2.1.   Factors over which the political leadership may exercise some influence and shape the outcome
of program implementation include the following: (i) legislative power to influence the enactment or
promulgation of legislation needed to provide the legal framework for smooth implementation of program
components; (ii) executive power to issue and publish decrees aimed at enforcing the implementation of
selected sections of legislations or statutes; and (iii) statutory powers to establish institutional structures
needed to ensure the coordination and implementation of components and sub-components of the
program.

5.2.2.   Observers believe that the parties to the conflict, who have negotiated and formed a transition
government, managed the peace process well and are committed to a successful transition, reducing the
threat to macroeconomic stability posed by competition within government for public resources. The
transition legislature, although not elected, has taken seriously its role as overseer of government
proposals and activities. Concrete examples of government influence on ERC implementation include
the following: the policy decision to reverse the moratorium on servicing external debt; the passage of
new forestry and mining codes, and their enabling legislation and decrees to enforce the implementation
of reforms in a number of areas including governance, public enterprise reform; financial sector reforms
including liquidation of parastatal banks, imposition of limits on government shareholdings in financial
institutions and adoption of legislation entrusting autonomy to the Central Bank of Congo; and public
sector financial management including rationalization of the public procurement system.

5.2.3.   An atmosphere of mutual trust between the Bank and the Borrower prevailed, a factor that
facilitated dialogue between both parties at all stages of the project cycle. The Borrower showed strong



                                                     - 11 -

commitment to the program.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:


5.3.1.   Implementation or executing agencies have an important role to play in the execution of program
components. Numerous agencies contributed effectively to the successful implementation of the
program supported by the ERC. The various forms of agency included line and sector ministries,
departments within ministries and ad-hoc bodies and institutions including committees and commissions.
These various entities exercised powers vested in them and carried out functions enabling them to
exercise control over important factors. Examples of factors under the influence of agencies associated
with ERC implementation include the following:

(i)      Program coordination function, an important responsibility in program management, was
spearheaded by the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget;

(ii)     A high-level inter-ministerial committee (ECOFIN) was responsible for monitoring program
implementation; and strengthened to a commission after with the creation of the transition government;

(iii)    The Central Bank played an essential role in banking sector reforms, and as the intermediary for
IDA effectiveness and subsequent tranche releases;

(iv)     Restructuring of Gecamines was assured by a unit specifically created within the Office of the
President to spearhead this process;

(v)      Public sector reforms were spearheaded by a Steering Committee, established to deliberate on
this issue;

(vi)     The combat against corruption was led by an Anticorruption Commission, set up to act an
instrument for combating corruption, as well as by an anticorruption observatory established by civil
society;

(vii)    Financial auditing was re-established by the Inspection Générale des Finance and Cours de
Comptes: both entities entrusted with identification of financial irregularities, so as to foster transparency,
accountability and anti-corruption objectives under the ERC's governance component; and

(viii)   Official procurement was monitored by a Public Procurement Commission, established to
monitor public procurement in pursuance of good governance.


5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1.   The projected final total project cost was SDR 360.4 million (US$450 million at the time of
negotiations) under the Credit Agreement. Due to the appreciation of the SDR relative to the US dollar,
total disbursements amounted to US$481.1 million. The additional US$31.1 million available at
effectiveness was used to finance a high-impact public works program. The amount of the forestry
tranche increased from US$15 million to US$16.5 million, and the mining tranche from US$25 million to
US$28.2 million.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


6.1.1.   Program sustainability relates to the ability of a program and its components to generate net
benefit streams far into the future, beyond the period of its implementation. With regard to the program
supported by the TSS of which the ERC was a component, sustainability is assessed on the durability of
stabilization and recovery objectives and its various components under the program.

6.1.2.   Stabilization, being a short-term objective, poses a major problem because of its dependence on



                                                    - 12 -

external factors over which the government may have little or no control. Stabilization required a
government budget balance on a cash-flow basis, with investment and some current needs met by
external resources; and its continuity may depend on continuous availability of external resources. Since
the Government's commitment to stabilization is strong, it is unlikely that it would be willing to renegade
on this commitment since stabilization and recovery were ongoing processes. The degree of
commitment demonstrated by the government to date, and the high potential in the future for sustainable
recovery made possible by continued mid-term partner support and, later, the country rich resource
endowments are encouraging evidence to inspire participation of the international donor and investment
communities. Also, due to the international and regional interest in assuring security and preserving
peace within the sub-region and the potential that this provides for economic development of the Greater
Great Lakes region, constitute a strong incentive for regional cooperation that would enhance the
sustainability of the program's stabilization component.

6.1.3.  Beyond stabilization and looking to the medium term, sustainability is likely for a number of
reasons: First, both the government and the diverse political factions which comprise it share an aversion
to the events that culminated in the need for a stabilization program in the first place. While it is
impossible to look beyond the elections of late 2005, the transition Government seems to be strongly
committed to economic reconstruction supported by prudential use of its natural resources and external
assistance. Furthermore, its commitment to improve public resource management implies that it will
strive to manage public expenditure while improving public revenue generation. Second, considerable
efforts have been made to initiate a process for revitalizing the key productive sectors of the Congolese
economy and imposing transparency upon their regulation, particularly in mining and forestry but in the
entire investment arena. While attempts at private rent-seeking are still reported in the Congolese press,
the sustainability of these core elements of ERC remains in little doubt as both the government and the
donor community as well as investors, both local and foreign, continue to show their support for recovery
and adjustment efforts in the DRC.

6.1.4.  The sustainability of the program supported by the TSS and the ERC is rated as likely; although
several elements of the ERC was rated as risky in the MOP and these risks remain, calling not for risk
mitigation (for most elements are outside of Borrower control) but for continued and diligent risk
management. Considering two risks in particular, the likelihood of success in avoiding further
accumulation of arrears is contingent upon: (i) continued donor support, (ii) improved revenue
mobilization and expenditure management, and (iii) HIPC debt relief. The likelihood of success in legal
and regulatory reform in the mining and forestry sectors is contingent upon (i) the enforcement of
implementing decrees, and (ii) the ability of the government to resist attempts to operate outside the new
legal framework.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1.  The Government's strategic emphasis on the transition from peace and reconciliation to
economic recovery and development is articulated clearly in the I-PRSP. These priorities include: (i)
peace and good governance; (ii) stabilization and pro-poor growth; (iii) support for community-driven
development (community dynamics). The Bank's assistance to the DRC during the TSS, adopted in July
2001, was defined in 3 stages: (i) stabilization, (ii) recovery, and (iii) development. The ERC supported
stabilization, while helping set the stage for recovery and development; the Emergency Early Recovery
Project and the Emergency Multi-Sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project supported recovery,
and the Private Sector Development and Competitiveness Project supported development. The adoption
of the second TSS in February 2004 marked the beginning of the Bank's transition to normal operations,
focusing on recovery and development. Components of this strategy include an Emergency Economic
and Social Reunification Support Project to continue the recovery countrywide and address the specific
and severe needs of the formerly occupied areas now open to Bank operations, the Southern Africa
Power Pool Project to draw upon the DRC's electric power potential to earn foreign exchange, the
HIV/AIDS Project, the fast-disbursing Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit which follows on and
deepens the reforms of the ERC, the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project, Health
Sector Rehabilitation Project, Education Sector Rehabilitation Project, Emergency Living Conditions
Improvements Project. Steps such as a CFAA and a CPAR are underway to lay the groundwork for a



                                                    - 13 -

transition to a CAS, while the Government is continuing its effort to design and implement a full PRSP,
which in turn will facilitate attainment of the Completion Point under the Enhanced HIPC process.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


7.1.1.   The Bank's performance is evaluated both from the standpoint of its role in the successful
implementation of the Credit, but also in terms of how it has contributed to the achievement of the Bank's
objectives as expressed in the TSS and the development policy objectives of the DRC as expressed in
the LDP and I-PRSP. With regard to program implementation, the Bank contributed to its success by
identifying and focusing on the three key components of the program. This resulted in the realization of
the core objectives, resulting in the DRC restoring relations with its major creditors and laying the
foundations for social and economic reforms in key sectors of the economy.

7.1.2.   As a result of program design, particularly disbursement structure and procedures, the release of
IDA Credit tranches were made on a timely basis. Furthermore, the Bank made effective use of its
financing by associating the release of tranches with the critical reform measures be implemented by the
Government or agencies concerned; this also helped assure effective use of the funds. Since
complementary actions were needed to ensure that the successful execution of the program, the Bank
successfully utilized its ability to convene the donor community to mobilize resources needed to finance
complementary actions.

7.1.3.   Project preparation and appraisal were satisfactory, because: (i) the project identified objectives
that were in line with the Government's I-PRSP, its medium-term strategy, and the TSS; (ii) the Credit
pragmatically provided support to realistic, important, policy changes required to achieve these
objectives; and (iii) IDA and the Ministry of Finance worked in close collaboration with line ministries to
obtain results.


7.2 Supervision:


7.2.1.   Supervision of the project was effectively carried out during the implementation phase, with
close collaboration of both the Country Office (after its establishment) and the Country Director's Office
at HQ. Bank staff reasonably assessed the risks associated with the implementation of the Program. In
the context of a regional conflict and a government under stress, these risks could not be reduced, so
this Credit throughout its lifetime posted warning flags. These were noted by senior management who in
turn regularly monitored to ensure that staff were working actively to manage these risks. Staff had
anticipated potential factors likely to impede the smooth execution of the project and, drawing upon
lessons learned from similar operations and with close collaboration with the borrower, introduced and
monitored appropriate mitigating measures to manage those risks which could not be eliminated.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:


7.3.1.   Based on the foregoing assessment, the overall performance of the Bank is rated as
Satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


7.4.1.   The Borrower had an important role in the preparation of the ERC. By clearly articulating its
development objectives, the Borrower greatly enhanced an understanding of its development needs,



                                                    - 14 -

both on the short and medium-term horizons. It is in this context that the preparation of I-PRSP as the
medium-term development strategy was a significant contribution that permitted donors to reconcile their
lending policy objectives to the development objectives of the Borrower. The Borrower assisted and even
forced the program preparation process by its program of implementing far-reaching reforms even before
donor commitments for assistance had been obtained. This leadership facilitated the decision by major
creditors to support the Borrower's request for assistance.

7.4.2.   In preparing the Credit, the Borrower put in place institutional mechanisms to execute the
activities supported. The implementation of the components of the ERC was facilitated by the
institutional framework put in place by the Borrower. The Government deployed the human resources
necessary to ensure that program implementation was not affected by administrative and implementation
capacity constraints.


                            Figure A: Program Preparation Performance
  Sample of Measures Taken By Government under its Medium-Term Program supported by
                                               the ERC

Structural measures: General price liberalization (including water, electricity, transport); diamond
market liberalization
Governance: Adoption of a code of ethics; corruption legislation; creation of anti-corruption
commission
Monetary policy: New central bank legislation, currency devaluation and new exchange rate regime.
Financial sector reform: New legislation on central bank, commercial banks and credit unions;
Commission on banking sector restructuring
Public finance: New expenditure and revenue management procedures adopted; legislative budget
approval
Mining: New mining code and related decrees, moratorium on new concessions; new cadastre and
commission on mining titles; study on restructuring of Gécamines; new voluntary retrenchment
program in Gécamines
Forestry: New forestry code and related decrees enacted; moratorium placed on new concessions.
Private sector development: Creation of commercial courts; new investment code; revised labor
code
Public expenditure management: Strengthen internal and external audit; audit of government
accounts
Public enterprise reform: Financial audit of all public enterprises; seminar on public enterprise
reform


7.4.3.   Finally, the Borrower prepared for program implementation by establishing the conditions
required for liquidation of arrears to the Bretton Woods institutions as well as the disbursement
requirements for the forestry and mining tranches. Were it not for the Borrower's accomplishment in
these key areas, the implementation of its own program, and the components supported by the ERC,
would have stalled or been shelved or considerably delayed.

7.4.4.   The Government's performance in the preparation of the program supported by the Credit was
satisfactory. Between 2001 and 2002, the Government of the DRC made considerable progress on the
political front by forging an inter-Congolese dialogue and promoting peace and security, and from 2002
to 2003, there was a successful effort to begin to reunify the country and its institutions ensuring that
peace takes hold.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1.   Government implementation performance was satisfactory, tranches were released in a timely
manner, and the IMF macroeconomic program has remained on track. The Government demonstrated a
strong commitment to the reform program envisaged in the ERC; this commitment was an essential
ingredient for the successful implementation of the reform program. The macroeconomic policy



                                                   - 15 -

framework continues to be satisfactory, per IMF Article IV and PRGF staff report of February 2004. More
directly concerning the ERC; the Mining and Forestry Codes have been passed into law.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1.   Although this was an adjustment credit, there were three agencies charged with implementing its
components: BCECO, the Ministry of Environment, and the Ministry of Finance. For implementation of
the mining tranche, BCECO created a specialized branch, the URK (Unité de Réinsertion à Katanga).


7.6.2.   BCECO played a leading role in the preparation and adoption of action plans that underpinned
project execution and implementation: (i) the Gécamines departures program supported by the mining
tranche, and (ii) the public expenditures program supported by additional resources liberated by the
depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR in the effectiveness tranche. Coordination between the
various sector ministries (Finance and Budget, Mines, and Environment) during project design and
preparation was good. The implementation of the subcomponents was good. The Agencies' involvement
in day-to-day management and supervision of the project was strong. The definition of the functional
responsibilities of each Agency from the beginning of the program was clear. The implementing
agencies' role is rated as satisfactory.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1.   The progress and achievements made in project implementation within a short period of time
against the backdrop of a difficult and fragile security situation in the DRC demonstrate that the
Government's performance in the preparation and implementation of the Credit was rated as
satisfactory. This rating is based on satisfactory arrears clearance at credit effectiveness plus
implementation of the programs supported by the two floating tranches.


8. Lessons Learned


8.1.     Useful lessons emerge from the Bank's experience in implementing ERC, the first stabilization
and adjusting lending of its kind undertaken for the Democratic Republic of Congo in the post-conflict
era. The risk of not becoming active in such a circumstance, as shown by DEC research, is that the
country in conflict could return to full scale conflict within 5 years.


8.2.     The main lesson learned here is that countries affected by conflict, where institutions have been
weakened by years of institutional decline and conflict, it is possible to design and implement programs
with a visible impact on the human scale and in the very short run (e.g., Gécamines departures program
and the public works programs).


8.3.     The benefits of the ERC clearly have outweighed the risks associated with lending in a volatile
political and social environment. Whilst much progress has been made towards sustainable peace in
DRC, localized conflict persists in certain areas of the country. Nevertheless, there can be no doubt that
the bold approach represented by the ERC has contributed significantly to the peace process by
providing a perspective of renewed cooperation and a return to economic growth. The political leadership
demonstrated conviction and commitment to the implementation of reforms through the drafting of
legislation and issuing of various decrees to institutionalize reforms in the key areas of governance and
finance.

(i)      It is possible rapidly to resume operations in a country currently hitherto suspended from Bretton
Woods assistance. The initial grant financing from IDA was crucial to this, as it permitted the Bank to
become pro-active at an early stage leading to this ERC which cleared arrears and provided vital early



                                                       - 16 -

assistance to support the transition government. Similar experiences in other countries provided the
Bank with confidence to proceed quickly in providing a prompt and forceful response. Risks remain high,
but the Bank continues to manage these risks in its overall program of which the ERC forms a part.

(ii)     The identification of the country's specific needs as was greatly assisted by the early and rapid
preparation of the Bank's strategy. The effort leading to the the TSS identified an essential stabilization
and adjustment program. The TSS served as an important instrument for guiding the Bank's intervention
and for ensuring that, in turn, the ERC's policy objectives would be consistent with the both the
Government's and the Bank's strategy.

(iii)    The country's readiness, in terms of having articulated a strategy or program provided a road
map for the Bank to ensure that its proposal objectives are also consistent with the country's own
development strategy. The I-PRSP provided a solid basis for the ERC, as made specific in the Letter of
Development Policy outlining the government's proposal for stabilization and adjustment lending.

(iv)     Regarding disbursements, the Bank disburses to account of the Central Bank at the BIS and the
funds are then transferred from the BIS to the commercial banks, for use for public works and
Gécamines. Authorities complained that the transfer of funds was sometimes too slow from the BIS to
the commercial banks. In response to their concern, IDA agreed under the follow-up operation to this
Credit, that for countries such as the DRC with a non-functioning banking sector that IDA would deposit
funds directly into well-regulated commercial banks, subject to appropriate fiduciary arrangements
having been put in place.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Partners Comments

9.1.     The Bank's traditional partners include other multilateral financial institutions and bilateral
donors. Donors and financiers (development partners) have financed a number of components of the
Government's medium-term program. However, as the ERC as a component of this program did not
involve co-financiers who would have been considered as partners, the only partners of the Bank on the
program were the Borrower and its agencies. The principal partner, whose perceptions about the
Program were based on conversations during the Bank's official missions in the country or through
written communications, was the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget (now three separate
ministries, with Finance the principal partner). The ERC also worked with the Ministries of Mining and
Environment on the mining and forestry components, respectively. Other agencies involved include the
Central Bank of Congo and Gécamines.

9.2.     Partners' comments on the Program tended to focus on program design issues, including the
relevance of development objectives, the Bank's lending policies and procedures, the efficiency of
disbursement and the Program's performance in terms of its impact on the achievement of the core
objectives of stabilization and urgent mining and forestry sector reforms. Below is a summary of the
comments made by various partners on the Program.

(i)      It was generally felt by the new government that basic reforms in the country were long overdue
and that the Bank's role in supporting the stabilization program was a significant contribution in
addressing the serious economic problems facing the country.

(ii)     Among top and medium-level leadership, the suspension of lending to the country was
considered to be a major handicap and that the concerted approach by donors and the Bank in particular,
was seen as an important contribution to opening up the country and seeking ways to address the serious
economic crisis in the DRC.

(iii)    It was generally held that the choice of the directly productive sectors of mining and forestry as
the key sectoral components of the Program represented the correct strategy since these constituted
engines of growth and poverty alleviation.

(iv)     Related to this, strong feelings were expressed by Government officials, representatives of
international mining companies and legitimate operators of forest concessions that IDA financing made it



                                                    - 17 -

possible to underwrite profound reforms by enacting new forestry and mining codes, considered to be the
major means of safeguarding the country's enormous natural wealth and eliminating the corrupt practices
of the past.

(v)      From the standpoint of social development, it was felt that the financing of recovery in mining
and forestry production would assist local communities. This was true in the widest sense, as those living
in the project areas (forestry zones) who rely on forests for subsistence or employment, both directly and
indirectly, will also receive revenues from the practices in the future under the new Forestry Code.
Regarding the impact of mining reforms on local communities, in the very specific case of the Province
of Katanga, the ERC provided resources to assist voluntary departures from Gécamines at a time when
Government feared a potential social explosion from workers who had not received salaries for several
months, and who were affected by rumors of layoff without retroactive pay. The ERC mining tranche
provided a social safety net for thousands of employees and may have averted a social explosion.


9.3.     Lastly, partner comments also touched on Program implementation performance. The Bank was
commended for its creative collaboration with other donors, which made it possible to enhance the
chances of success in the implementation of its program. An example cited was the assistance for
participation under the HIPC initiative. These arrangements, together with the Bank's leadership on the
concerted approach among multilateral and bilateral creditors concerning the DRC's debt arrears, were
mentioned as hallmarks of constructive collaboration among financing partners engaged in the
stabilization and adjustment program in the Democratic Republic of Congo.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.


10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




         Key Program Components               Projected Inputs/Actions/Measures                            Actual Outputs

Core Components
1.Resumption of IFI lending operations  Assisting the DRC to leave non-accrual status    Arrangements for arrears clearance through a
(Arrears clearance)                     with the Bank loans and assisted programs of     bridge loan.
                                        other IFIs.

2. Forestry sector reform               Creating the legal foundation for good           A new forestry code was drafted and adopted.
                                        governance in the management of forestry
                                        resources.                                       An action plan for redressing poor governance
                                                                                         was implemented; this consisted of reasserting
                                        Revising and modernizing the forestry code or    public control over public forests; imposition of a
                                        legislation.                                     moratorium on new forest concessions pending

                                        Generating development resources while           implementation of the new Code and

                                        conserving the environment.                      simplification of forestry tax system.

                                        Fostering good governance in forestry
                                        management.

3. Mining sector reform                 Reforming the legal and regulatory framework     A new mining code was drafted and adopted by
                                        for mining operations.                           Parliament.

                                        Financing a retrenchment program for Gecamines Decrees to enforce the implementation of mining
                                        through a voluntary departure program            legislation were issued in respect of elaborating
                                                                                         mining and establishment of a commission to
                                                                                         validate mining concessions.

                                                                                         An Economic and Financial Commission was
                                                                                         vested with the responsibility of overseeing the
                                                                                         restructuring of Gécamines.

                                                                                         A program for the voluntary departure of
                                                                                         Gécamines employees was implemented and
                                                                                         completed.

Other Components

1.Governance                            Strengthening the rule of law                    Draft anti-corruption legislation was produced.

                                        Reinforcing the judicial system                  A code of ethics and good conduct for public

                                        Creating a legal and regulatory environment for  officials was prepared.

                                        Private sector development.                      An anti-corruption commission was established

                                        Reducing corruption in the public sector.        with terms of reference including the fight against
                                                                                         corruption, fraud, smuggling and money
                                        Improving public sector financial management.    laundering.

                                                                                         A comprehensive action plan for implementation
                                                                                         of corruption legislation was prepared.

2. Public sector financial management   Modernizing budgetary processes at all stages    A budget law was enacted for FY 2003 with
                                        from commitment to payment.                      classification of recurrent and capital expenditure

                                        Modernizing and simplifying the tax regime to    components.

                                        enhance revenue generation, with the IMF.        Budget preparation processes at various stages

                                        Introducing competitive tariff reform and value  were streamlined.

                                        added tax, with the IMF.                         An expenditure tracking system was established,

                                        Promoting the observance of international        to ensure that spending can be traced to specific

                                        fiduciary or prudential standards, with the IMF. facilities or projects and reach the ultimate
                                                                                         beneficiaries.

                                                                                         A system of poverty expenditure tracking
                                                                                         assessment is being instituted.

                                                                                         A mechanism for improving the efficiency of
                                                                                         fiscal data communication between the Ministry
                                                                                         of Finance and the Central Bank of Congo was
                                                                                         put in place.




                                                             - 19 -

         Key Program Components             Projected Inputs/Actions/Measures                       Actual Outputs

3. Public enterprise sector reform                                                 The legal framework for public enterprise reforms
                                                                                   was elaborated. A Steering Committee was
                                                                                   established to spearhead public enterprise
                                                                                   reforms.

                                                                                   The legal framework for promoting
                                                                                   public-private partnership was formulated.

                                                                                   The fiscal regime and corporate tax structures
                                                                                   were reviewed to make them more powerful
                                                                                   incentive instruments.

                                                                                   A review of indebtedness of public enterprises
                                                                                   was undertaken with the view to reaching
                                                                                   settlement with private creditors.

                                                                                   Sectoral working groups were established to
                                                                                   consider reforms on a case by case basis.

                                                                                   An audit of state owned enterprises was
                                                                                   completed.

                                                                                   A capacity building seminar on public enterprise
                                                                                   reform was conducted.

4. Financial sector reform            Reforming the legal and regulatory framework New financial legislation for banks and credit
                                      for the banking sector.                      unions was drafted.

                                      Restructuring the Central Bank of Congo.     New legislation for the establishment of an

                                      Reform of commercial banks.                  autonomous central bank was enacted.

                                                                                   An audit of operations of the Central Bank was
                                                                                   completed.

                                                                                   Non viable public and private sector banks were
                                                                                   identified and liquidated.

                                                                                   An additional audit was completed in respect of
                                                                                   remaining banks to be liquidated, restructured or
                                                                                   privatized.

                                                                                   Restructuring plans for four financial institutions
                                                                                   were completed.

                                                                                   An overall financial sector strategy was
                                                                                   completed and adopted.




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                       US$ million  US$ million
Cross-sectoral tranche                                   410.00        436.40            106
Floating sector tranche - foresty sector                  15.00         16.50            110
Floating sector tranche - mining sector                   25.00         28.20            113

Total Baseline Cost                                      450.00        481.10
                          Total Project Costs            450.00        481.10
                   Total Financing Required              450.00        481.10




                                                - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Ident 12/2001             2    Economists
              Prep 12/2001              1    Mining Specialist
                                        1    Private Sector Dvlp Specialist
                                        1    Counsel
                                        1    Financial Sector Specialist
                                        2    Forestry Specialists
                                        2    Consultants
                                        1    Research Analyst
                                        1    Junior Professional Associate
                                        2    Team Assistants

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              App 04/2002               2    Economists
              Neg 04/2002               1    Mining Specialist
                                        1    Private Sector Dvlp Specialist
                                        1    Counsel
                                        1    Financial Sector Specialist
                                        2    Forestry Specialists
                                        2    Consultants
                                        1    Research Analyst
                                        1    Team Assistant

 Supervision
              Sup 07/2002               3    Economists
                                        1    Public Sector Reform Specialist
                                        1    Mining Specialist
                                        1    Private Sector Dvlp Specialist
                                        1    Counsel
                                        2    Financial Sector Specialists
                                        2    Forestry Specialists
                                        5    Consultants
                                        1    Procurement Specialist
                                        1    Operations Officer
                                        2    Team Assistants

 ICR
                                        2     Economists
                                        1     Mining Specialist
                                        1     Financial Sector Specialist
                                        1     Forestry Specialist
                                        2     Consultants
                                        1     Mining Specialist
                                        1     Junior Professional Associate




                                              - 23 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           72.94                           605
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     -                             -
  Supervision                        100.98                            571
  ICR                                      8                             4
  Total                              181.92                          1,180




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Development Credit Agreement (Economic Recovery Credit) Between the Democratic Republic of
Congo and International Development Association, Dated June 28, 2002

2. Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit of SDR 360.4 Million (US$450 Million Equivalent) to the
Democratic Republic of Congo for an Economic Recovery Credit, Report No. P7531, May 17, 2002

3. Democratic Republic of Congo, Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 3660-DRC), Release of the Forestry
Sector Tranche, IDA/SecM2003-0059, February 21, 2003

4. Democratic Republic of Congo, Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 3660-DRC), Release of the Mining
Sector Tranche, IDA/SecM2003-0382, June 20, 2003

5. Democratic Republic of Congo, Economic Recovery Credit, Report No. PID11346, March 27, 2002

6. Democratic Republic of the Congo - Briefing Paper for the 2002 Article IV Consultation Discussions
and the First Review of the Three-Year Arrangment Under the PRGF, and Update of Debt Sustainability
Analysis, October 9, 2002 (IMF Briefing Paper, 9 Oct 2002)

7. Letter to Ministers Mulungo and Futa, Subject: Closing of ERC, Cr. 3660-DRC, 26 June 2003 (Letter
to Ministers Mulungo and Futa, 26 June 2003)

8. Letter to Minister Mutungulu Ilankir, Subject: ERC (Cr. 3660-DRC) - Aide-memoire of Supervision
Mission, 19-27 August 2002, 29 August 2002 (Letter to Minister Mutungulu Ilankir Re: Aide-memoire,
19-27 August 2002)

9. Transitional Support Strategy for the Democratic Republic of Congo, July 9, 2001

10. Democratic Republic of the Congo, Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA-IMF
Staff Assessment

11. Letter of Development Policy, IMF

12. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association
to the Executive Directors on Assistance to the Democratic Republic of the Congo Under the Enhanced
HIPC Debt Initiative




                                                  - 27 -

- 28 -

