Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3660 DRC
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Recovery Credit)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 28, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3660 DRC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 2002, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter  dated
 
May
 
11, 2002 from the 
Borrower (the Policy Development Letter) describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to eradicate poverty from the Borrower's territory (hereinafter referred to as 
“the Program”), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;
(B)
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter 
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“’Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals form the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
Deposit Account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General conditions.”;
(d)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: the words “the Project” are  replaced by the 
words: “the Program referred to in the Preamble of the Development Credit Agreement”; and
(e)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Page  3
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Central Bank of Congo” means the Borrower’s Central Bank, established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(c)
“Development Policy Letter” means the letter referred to in Preamble (A) of this 
Agreement;
(d)
“Effectiveness Tranche“ means the Tranche (as hereafter defined) referred to in 
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released 
by the Association on or after Effectiveness Date;
(e)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the period from January 1 to December 31; 
(f)
(“Forest Sector Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereafter defined) referred to in 
Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released 
by the Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred to in Schedule 1 
paragraph (5) of this Agreement have been met;
(g)
“Forestry Code” means a law regulating logging, use rights, conservation and 
management of the Borrower’s forests, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association
;
(h)
“Gecamines” means a mining company operating under the laws of the 
Borrower;
(i)
“Mining Sector Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereafter defined) referred to in 
Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released 
by the Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred to in Schedule 1 
paragraph (4) of this Agreement have been met
 ;
(j)
“SITC” means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 
(1986); and
(k)
“Tranche” means any of the following: Effectiveness Tranche, Mining Sector 
Tranche, or Forestry Sector Tranche.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various 
Page  4
currencies equivalent to three hundred sixty million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 360,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank, a deposit 
account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All 
withdrawals shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
November 15 and May 15 in each year.
Page  5
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each November 15 and 
May 15, commencing November 15, 2012 and ending May 15, 2042. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on May 15, 2021, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Financial and other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due diligence 
to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are duly implemented.
(b)
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
Page  6
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the 
actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including the actions specified in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.03.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
No later than by the Closing Date, or such other date as the Borrower and the 
Association shall agree upon, carry out an audit of the execution of the voluntary separation plan 
for Gecamines’ workers referred to in paragraph 3 of Part B of  Schedule 2 to the Credit 
Agreement, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles and pursuant to terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the Closing Date, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the carrying out of 
the said plan and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
Page  7
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Economy, Finance and Budget
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget
BP 12997
Kinshasa I
Democratic Republic of Congo
Facsimile:
243 88 02 381
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  8
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
By /s/ Etienne Mukendi
Acting Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table below sets 
forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the Credit Account:
Tranche
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
 (Expressed in
SDR Equivalent)
       % of      
Expenditures 
to be financed
(1)
Effectiveness 
Tranche
328,400,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures
(2)
Mining Sector 
Tranche
  20,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures 
(3)
Forestry Sector 
Tranche
  12,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures
Page  9
__________
    TOTAL
360,400,000
=========
2.
For   the   purposes   of   this   Schedule   
the  term “foreign expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
(a)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United 
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups 
or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to 
the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
Page  10
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
(e)
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or 
import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party; 
(f)
expenditures: (i) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (ii) on account of 
any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations; and
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation.
4.
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account under Category (2) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the amounts specified in Category (1)  have been withdrawn 
by the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(A)
that the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
Page  11
been fulfilled; and
(B)
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been undertaken in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
5.
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account under Category (3) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the amounts specified in Category (1) has been withdrawn by 
the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(A)
that the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been fulfilled; and
(B)
that the actions described in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been undertaken in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
6.
If, after any of said exchange of views referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 above, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the requirements under Part A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or the actions taken under Parts B or C of said Schedule 2, as the 
case may be, are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have met the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement  or taken the actions under 
Part B or C of said Schedule 2, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Part A
:
General Requirements for Tranche Releases
1.
The Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Program.
2.
The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on 
the basis of indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
Part B
:
Conditions for the Release of the  Mining Sector Tranche
The Borrower has :
1.
established by decree, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association: (a) a 
commission for the validation of mining titles and (b) an autonomous mining registry, pursuant 
to paragraph 33 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
2.
established by decree, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, a permanent 
committee in charge of: (a) overseeing the carrying out of the plan referred to in paragraph 3 of 
this Part B, and (b) the restructuring of Gecamines, pursuant to paragraph 33 of the Letter of 
Development Policy.
3.
furnished evidence to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Page  12
Association, of a voluntary separation plan of Gecamines’ workers in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to paragraph 33 of the Letter of Development Policy.
Part C:
Specific Conditions for the Release of the Forestry Sector Tranche
The Borrower has submitted to its Parliament the draft Forestry Code, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.
