Document of                      r     n        n
The World Bank    FILE CUOY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-24hL4-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
January 11, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Lempira (L)
L 2.00 = US$1.00
L 1.00 = US$0.50
ABBREVIATIONS
BANAFOM       -   Banco Nacional de Fomento (National Development Bank)
BCH           -   Banco Central de Honduras (Central Bank of Honduras)
CAAFIID       -   Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives
to Industrial Development
CABEI         -   Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM          -   Central American Common Market
CDI           -   Centro de Desarrollo Industrial (Industrial Development
Center)
CET           -   Common External Tariff
CIDA          -   Canadian International Development Agency
COHDEFOR      -   Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
(Forestry Development Corporation)
CONADI        -   Corporacion Nacional de Inversiones
(National Investment Corporation)
FONDEI        -   Fondo Nacional de Inversiones Industriales
(National Industrial Development Fund)
IDB           -   Inter-American Development Bank
UNDP          -   United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO         -   United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID         -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



HONDURAS           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Honduras
Amount.              US$15.0 million equivalent
Project Executing
Agency:            National Industrial Development Fund (FONDEI), established
and administered by the Central Bank to make medium- and
long-term loans for industrial subprojects through the
Forestry Development Corporation and other financial
intermediaries.
Lending Terms:       20 years, including 5 years of grace at an interest rate
of 7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    Government would on-lend the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan to FONDEI on the same terms as the Bank loan.
FONDEI would lend to financial intermediaries in local
currency at 7-8 percent interest for subloans to small
scale enterprises, and 9 percent for subloans to larger
ones; financial intermediaries would on-lend FONDEI funds
to subborrowers at no more than 12 percent interest, with
repayment terms of up to 15 years for general industry
loans and up to 17 years for forestry loans, including up
to 3 years of grace. The foreign exchange risk would be
carried by the Central Bank which would charge a fee of
0.5 percent per annum on the outstanding balance of
subloans.
Project
Description:       The project's principal objective is to establish an institu-
tional capacity to select, appraise and finance efficient
industrial projects. Medium and long term credit, which
is in short supply, would be made available to financial
intermediaries through FONDEI to finance fixed assets,
permanent working capital, related services and preinvest-
ment studies. Financial intermediaries would receive
incentives to lend to smaller enterprises. Special
features would be provided to facilitate lending for wood
industry projects. The project also includes the services
of consultants to train and advise various institutions on
appraisal and supervision of subloans, and to improve the
Industrial Development Center. The project faces no special
risks, although close initial supervision may be required
since the institutional arrangements for project adminis-
tration are new.
F This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                      US$ Millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Industrial Credit          13.4     15.0      28.4
Sources of
Financing:                                         US$ Millions    Percentage
Bank Loan                           15.0             52.8
Central Bank                         5.0             17.6
Intermediaries                       2.8             10.0
Subborrowers                         5.6             19.6
28.4           100.0
Disbursements:                                             Bank FY
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                  1.1     2.9      4.3     3.9      2.8
Cumulative             1.1      4.0     8.3    12.2    15.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:            2199-HO of December 29,1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Honduras for the equivalent of US$15.0 million for an
industrial credit project.  The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum. The proceeds of the
loan would be placed in the Central Bank's National Industrial Development
Fund (FONDEI) and relent through financial intermediaries to the final bene-
ficiaries for up to 17 years, including up to three years of grace, with
interest at no more than 12 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on Recent Economic Development and
Prospects of Honduras" (1856-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 10, 1978. The main findings of the Report are summarized below.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Long-term Development Trends
3.        The long-term growth rate of the Honduran economy has been exceed-
ingly low. Between 1950 and 1975, real per capita GNP grew by only 1 percent
a year. Honduras' per capita GNP in 1977, US$450, is one of the lowest levels
in the Western Hemisphere. Honduras' poverty is also evident from a variety
of indicators. Malnutrition is severe: about three-quarters of pre-school
children are believed to suffer from protein and caloric deficiencies, and
infant mortality is estimated at 118 per thousand live births. It is esti-
mated that roughly 60 percent of the population has no access to safe piped
water and about 75 percent lives without any form of sanitary waste disposal.
Furthermore, these are country averages which conceal substantial regional
disparities, as living conditions in the rural areas, which account for about
two-thirds of the population, are much poorer than in the cities.
4.        A major reason for Honduras' poor growth performance has been the
continued dependence of the economy on the production and export of a few
agricultural commodities, especially bananas, whose prices depend on a fluc-
tuating world market situation and whose output may be greatly influenced
by weather conditions. The latter was dramatically illustrated when
1/   This section is substantially
unchanged from the section on the economy in the President's Report for the
Nispero Power Project (P-2403-HO) dated November 1, 1978.



extensive destruction of the banana plantations by Hurricane Fifi in 1974
reduced the volume of bananas exported in 1975 to about one-half the level
of 1973 and contributed to a drop in per capita income of about 3 percent.
5.        There are many reasons for the continued dominance of bananas in
the Honduran economy. Known mineral deposits are not extensive. A serious
lack of basic infrastructure and deficient development policies in the past
have left Honduras' agricultural resources underutilized. In addition,
the mountainous topography of the country has made the expansion of the road
network slow and costly.  There has been progress, however, since 1960, and
major achievements include the establishment of a basic transportation net-
work connecting the main population centers, and a considerable expansion of
electric power service.
6.        Much land suitable for agriculture is still unutilized, and the
country has sizeable forest resources, but agricultural output only grew at
about 2 percent yearly between 1950 and 1975. Uneven land distribution and
deficient credit, technical services and development programs have kept
agricultural growth far below its potential.
Government Development Efforts
7.        Since 1972, development efforts have increased substantially and
several measures have been taken to lay the basis for the current improved
economic outlook over the longer term. A land reform program which began
in December 1972 aims at greatly improving land utilization as well as
increasing the income and employment of the poorest peasants through the
transfer of unutilized or poorly utilized land from large landowners to
landless rural families. Another major policy development was the national-
ization of timber rights in January 1974. A new forestry law established
guidelines for private sector participation in forestry development and
created the Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal (COHDEFOR). In the
same year, the Government established the Corporacion Nacional de Inversiones
(CONADI) to promote and finance industrial projects. Another major achieve-
ment was an improvement in Government planning and executing capacity, parti-
cularly in infrastructure, which has resulted in a substantial increase in
public fixed investment from 3.3 percent of GDP in 1972 to 6.6 percent in
1974 and over 8 percent in 1977. The Government has also made an effort
to increase investment in the social and productive sectors and strengthen
public finances through tax reforms and better tax administration. A 1975 tax
reform made the tax on coffee exports an ad-valorem tax with marginal rates
ranging from 10 percent to 20 percent depending on coffee prices, substituted
a 3 percent value added tax for the sales tax, and raised the tax rates on
beer, cigarettes and liquor.
Recent Economic Developments
8.        While Honduras was adversely affected by one of the worst hurricanes
in its history in 1974, it had also to contend with the oil price rise of that
year and the later OECD recession. As a result, during 1974-75, total GDP
remained almost stagnant, severe balance of payments difficulties arose and
the country's savings capacity was seriously reduced. Import prices rose much



- 3 -
faster than export prices, and the terms of trade deteriorated substantially
before recovering in 1976. The resource gap, which was equal to about 1
percent of GDP during 1972-73, averaged 11.6 percent during 1974-75. The
rise in consumer prices, which had averaged 2.7 percent a year between 1966
and 1973, accelerated to 13 percent in 1974 before declining to 8 percent in
1975.
9.        A high level of public investment, the gradual recovery of banana
production and the doubling of coffee export prices were the major factors
responsible for an improvement of the economic situation in 1976. Real GDP
grew at about 6.6 percent and the price level increased by only 5 percent.
Partly as a result of higher coffee prices, merchandise export earnings grew
by about 31 percent in current terms over 1975. Government tax revenues
increased from 10.8 percent of GDP in 1972-73 to 12.8 percent in 1976 and,
while there was a substantial increase in public current expenditures, public
savings were estimated at 2.7 percent of GDP in 1976 compared to an average
2.2 percent in 1972-73. However, as investment expenditures for hurricane
reconstruction and development purposes were stepped up considerably, the
overall deficit of the Central Government increased from 2.5 percent of GDP
in 1970 to 4.9 percent in 1976.
10.       In 1977, economic expansion continued with real GDP growth estimated
at 8 percent, due mainly to the expansion of public investment (about 17 per-
cent), and to a doubling of coffee prices from the 1976 level. The rate of
inflation accelerated to 8.6 percent owing to: (i) higher liquidity brought
about by coffee sales, (ii) rising import prices, (iii) poor domestic crops of
basic grains. The balance of payments had a current account deficit of US$121
million, somewhat above the US$109 million recorded in 1976, mainly due to the
rapid increase of imports and the retention of coffee sales in the second
semester of 1977. Foreign exchange reserves, however, increased by about
US$40 million, as a result of greater disbursements of foreign loans. With
regard to the public sector, Central Government current revenues reached 16.4
percent of GDP, while public savings increased to 3.3 percent of GDP. The
total tax burden increased to 14.5 percent of GDP.
Growth Prospects
11.       The growth prospects for 1979-82 are good.  Real GDP is expected to
increase at an annual rate of about 6 percent, barring natural disasters.
Real exports should be able to grow at about 7 percent a year, reflecting
continued recovery of banana production from the September 1974 hurricane,
increased coffee production owing to higher yields and new plantings, expan-
sion of sugar production, an increase of lumber exports made possible by the
currently planned expansion of sawmill capacity, increased beef production
(also the result of an ongoing program), expansion of fruit and vegetable
production for export and promotion of tourism. Coffee prices, although
they have declined from the unusually high 1977 level, are expected to remain
well above 1975 levels in real terms. In addition, the Government plans to
accelerate economic growth over the medium-term through an ambitious public
investment program designed to alleviate the most significant bottlenecks to
the country's development process. The presently designed development strategy
calls for large public investments in infrastructure, in export diversification
through forestry development, industry and tourism, and in agriculture to
implement the agrarian reform program and increase productivity.



- 4 -
12.       The expansion of the public sector's investment expenditures together
with the necessary increase of complementary current expenditures creates a
need for additional increases in taxes and the tariffs of public enterprises
in the 1979-82 period as well as for careful control of other current expendi-
tures. The Government is considering a series of proposals to mobilize addi-
tional domestic resources in support of its development program.
13.       While real exports are expected to increase at about seven percent a
year during 1978-82, Honduras' terms of trade are expected to deteriorate. As
the import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports related to
the investment program, the current account deficit is expected to increase to
US$200 million by 1981 and US$250 million in 1985, and large capital inflows
will be required.  The bulk of the external financing requirements will have
to be met through public borrowing. Honduras will require an estimated total
gross capital inflow of US$900 million for the six-year period 1977-82, of
which about US$255 million will be disbursed from commitments made through the
end of 1976.
14.       Honduras' public external debt repayable in foreign currency is esti-
mated to be US$436 million at the end of 1977, US$787 million if undisbursed
commitments are included. In the past, Honduras managed to keep its external
debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost all on
concessionary terms. It is important that the country continue to borrow on
reasonably soft average terms, in view of the country's poverty, the fact
that it will continue to depend on exports of a few commodities with volatile
price prospects, and because, historically, natural disasters have sharply
reduced the volume of exports every few years. Even if Honduras is successful
in obtaining about two-thirds of the financing it needs for its investment
program on terms similar to those offered by the international lending agencies,
the debt service ratio is likely to rise from about 7.1 percent in 1977 to
about 13 percent by the mid-1980s. Continued maintenance of Honduras' credit-
worthiness will depend on the efficiency with which it chooses and implements
its major public investment projects; careful, continued demand management,
including cautious use of nonconcessionary borrowing; and on export promotion
policies. The Bank will be carefully monitoring Honduras' performance in this
regard; a mission is scheduled for January 1979 to review necessary Government
actions and policies in these fields.
15.       Although the IDB was Honduras' largest creditor as of December 31,
1977 about three fourths of its total loans disbursed and outstanding is
repayable in local currency, so that IDB's share of the disbursed public debt
repayable in foreign currency of US$436 million is only 5.4 percent. The Bank
Group holds 27.5 percent of the disbursed public debt outstanding repayable in
foreign currency. CABEI accounts for 18.5 percent of the total, the US
Government for 17.4 percent, Venezuela for 12.3 percent, privately held debt
for about 15.2 percent and other debt for 3.7 percent.
16.       In terms of the sectoral thrust of lending by the principal external
agencies apart from the Bank, AID has concentrated on agriculture and educa-
tion, IDB on transport, agriculture and forestry, health, education and



- 5 -
housing, and CABEI on transport, industry, power housing and tourism. It is
expected that AID and CABEI will continue lending primarily in the same
sectors in the future, while IDB would concentrate on agriculture, forestry,
transport, industry and power. The lending of the external agencies from
1950-1977 was as follows:
IBRD     IDA      AID      IDB    CABEI    TOTAL
Total Gross Lending 1950-1977    177.5    53.2    113.4   294.7   199.2    838.0
Gross Lending 1950-1965              25.9    12.5      26.7    27.2       8.1    100.4
Gross Lending 1966-1977             151.6    40.7      86.7   267.5   191.1    737.6
Sectoral Lending 1966-1977
Transport                          88.3     5.0         -    32.1    74.7    200.1
Power                             60.3      9.5         -        -    20.9      90.7
Telecommunications                    -       -         -    14.7    10.1       24.8
Education                           3.0     3.0      10.5    17.4        -      33.9
Health                                -       -       2.6    33.2    10.2       46.0
Housing                               -       -       5.0    12.5    16.5       34.0
Agriculture and Forestry              -    23.2      48.5   155.4      4.1    231.2
Industry                              -       -       5.0      2.2    33.2      40.4
Other                                 -       -      15.1        -    21.4      36.5
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS 1/
17.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received eighteen Bank loans totalling US$218.2 million and ten
IDA credits totalling US$57.6 million, both net of cancellations. The most
recent Bank Group operations are the US$5 million credit for education (approved
in March 1978), the US$10.5 million Guayape Regional Development Loan (approved
in May 1978) and the US$30.5 million Nispero Power Loan (approved in November
1978). As of October 31, 1978, a total of US$77.1 million remained to be
disbursed on twelve operations for ports, electricity, roads, livestock,
education and agricutural credit. The proposed loan would raise the total of
Bank Group assistance from US$275.8 million to US$290.8 million. Execution of
projects financed by the Bank Group has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of October 31, 1978, as well as notes on the execution of
on-going projects.
18.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of
the country. The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, how-
ever, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since
then, this diversification has continued through operations for a Second
Livestock project; a First Education project, which included as major
components primary and secondary teacher training schools and support for
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the section on Bank Group
Operations in the President's Report for the Nispero Power Project
(P-2403-HO) dated November 1, 1978.



vocational training centers and the national agricultural secondary school; a
First Agricultural Credit project to finance livestock and crop development
with emphasis on assisting agrarian reform settlements through investment
credits and a substantial technical assistance program; a Second Education
Project to help finance rural primary schools and agricultural vocational
education; and the Guayape Regional Development Project to assist small
farmers and agrarian reform settlements in the Guayape Valley. The proposed
Industrial Credit loan would be the Bank's first for industrial development in
Honduras.
19.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the priorities of
the Government's investment program by giving increased emphasis to investment
in agricultural and rural development to support the agrarian reform. We
would also help finance activities to strengthen the balance of payments by
reducing Honduras' reliance on banana production, while continuing to lend for
physical infrastructure where there are still deficiencies to be overcome. A
follow-on to the First Agricultural Credit Project and additional rural
development projects, now being identified, are planned. Processing of a
proposed loan for tourism development is well advanced, and Bank support is
also being considered for a COHDEFOR pulp and paper project. In transport, we
plan to place emphasis on assisting the construction of a network of feeder
and access roads to support the Government's agricultural program. We also
hope to continue financing power development, in addition to the recently
approved Nispero hydro power project, through participation in the large
(US$487 million) El Cajon hydroelectric project which is scheduled to come on
stream in the mid-1980s. It is expected that the Bank, IDB and CABEI will
contribute to the El Cajon effort, and the Bank has been helping Honduras
contact bilateral sources to seek additional concessional financing.
20.       It is expected that the Bank Group share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will drop from 27.5 percent in 1977 to 26.4
percent by 1981 because of increasing lending by other external agencies
and a slight increase in commercial borrowing. The IBRD share of debt service
in 1976 was 23.4 percent and is projected at about 24.3 percent by 1981.
21.       Until recently, IFC's activities in Honduras included a 1964 loan
and a share subscription, of US$295,000 and US$82,500 respectively, in a
tannery, Empresa de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. (ECCASA); and a US$75,000
share subscription in a pilot promotional company, Compania Pino Celulosa de
Centro America (COPINO) in 1969. COPINO was established to develop an indus-
trial project based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve, but a series
of obstacles to project development arose, and efforts to go forward with it
were virtually halted in 1971. While current plans for the Olancho forest
industries project do not include a role for COPINO, the IFC is assisting
the Government in creating an organizational structure for the project and
selecting a technical partner. In December 1977 the Executive Directors
approved a US$9.0 million loan, and up to US$1.0 million equity investment,
for Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A. de C.V. for plant expansion aimed at almost
doubling its production capacity.



PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN HONDURAS
Structure
22.       Honduran industry is less developed than that of the other Central
American countries and the industrial base is relatively small. Manufacturing
industry accounts for only about 17 percent of GDP, 23 percent of total
merchandise exports, and employs about 10 percent of the labor force. Indus-
trial value added grew by 3.8 percent per year (approximately the same rate
as the economy) during the 1960s. Available information indicates that
employment in industry increased by the same 3.8 percent on average annually
during this period.
23.       The production of heavy intermediate and capital goods remains
minimal. The processing of local raw materials, mainly agricultural and
forest products, continues to represent almost two-thirds of industrial
value added. Intermediate goods, composed mainly of chemicals, petroleum,
rubber and non-metallic minerals, constitute about 20 percent of industrial
value added, and artisanal products about 16 percent.
24.       Industrial enterprises in Honduras are relatively small.  According
to the 1975 industrial census, over half of the principal manufacturers (those
producing the bulk of industrial value added) employed fewer than 20 workers.
Most industrial employees are involved in consumer goods production.
25.       The rather low level of development indicated by these statistics
reflects the various domestic constraints which have impeded Honduran industry.
The domestic market has been small and has not expanded rapidly. In the past,
transport and power facilities were inadequate. There has been a shortage
of qualified managers, technicians and semi-skilled workers as a result of
widespread illiteracy and limited training facilities. The adult literacy
rate is 53 percent and the educational level of the labor force is also low,
e.g. 41 percent of Honduran workers in 1974 had no formal education. Voca-
tional training systems are not highly developed. For these reasons the
Government has been substantially increasing education expenditures, assisted
by Bank Group operations approved in 1974 and 1978.
26.       The relative backwardness of Honduran industry meant also that it
was unable to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the creation
of the Central American Common Market (CACM) in 1961. CACM intra-regional
trade, largely in manufactured goods, increased rapidly from US$30 million in
1960 to US$252 million in 1968. While annual Honduran exports to its CACM
partners rose from US$8 million to US$30 million over this period, its share
of intra-regional trade fell from 27 percent to 12 percent. The country's
trade balance with the CACM became increasingly negative in the 1960's and its
manufacturing growth rate in 1960-68 (unlike that of the rest of Central
America) was lower than during the 1950's. Its comparatively low level of
development also made it difficult for the country to attract a substantial
share of the investments which followed the creation of the Common Market.
Despite the virtual absence of restrictions on private foreign investment in



- 8 -
Honduras, foreign companies interested in establishing manufacturing facilities
tended to locate in the more developed Central American countries. Finally,
in 1970, a year after hostilities with El Salvador, Honduras withdrew from the
CACM and reduced or canceled some of the incentives to industry that had been
enacted pursuant to the CACM agreement.
27.       The last few years, however, have seen important and promising
changes in the industrial sector. The industrial growth rate almost doubled
over the pace of the 1960s averaging an annual rate of 7 percent in 1970-77.
Faster growth was facilitated initially by the reduction in competition from
imports when Honduras left the CACM. Subsequently, Honduras signed bilateral
agreements with each of the CACM countries except El Salvador, providing for
partial restoration of free trade along CACM lines but offering certain advan-
tages to Honduras, which was permitted to charge tariffs on some manufactured
goods from CACM countries. Signing of these agreements was followed by the
renewed granting of industrial investment incentives, which triggered a
process of modernization and expansion of industrial capacity. The industrial
growth rate during this period would have been slightly higher but for the
effects on the Atlantic coast region of the 1974 hurricane, which caused wind
and water damage to industrial facilities, local raw material shortages, dis-
ruptions to transportation and lower demand for industrial goods from the
affected population. Although industrial value added grew by only 2.6 percent
in 1975, the sector recovered rapidly thereafter, and industrial value added
increased by 11.8 percent in 1976 and 11.5 percent in 1977.
28.       Fixed investment in industrial plants has also accelerated in recent
years. In 1973, investments increased by 32 percent in real terms over the
depressed level of 1972, in sharp contrast with the about 7 percent annual
growth during 1965-70. The higher level of 1973, amounting to about US$30
million, was maintained in 1974-75 and investments rose to some US$45 million
in 1977. There have been corresponding increases meanwhile in labor productiv-
ity, manufactured exports and locally made consumer goods. Larger and more
efficient factories have been established, and these are assuming increasing
importance in overall manufacturing value added. It is also notable that, in
1974-76, the volume of Honduras' exports to its Central America neighbors
increased at an average rate of 41 percent p.a., and its share of regional
trade doubled from 1973 to 1976.
Prospects
29.       Honduras' prospects for further industrial growth, on the basis of
planned expansion and demand perspectives as well as the recent trends, are
good. The domestic market for manufactured goods should improve in line with
the country's medium term development potential. While manufactured exports
to other Central American nations have been increasing, there also has been a
significant growth of trade with Europe, primarily exports of processed foods
and lumber. These are expected to continue growing along with sales of seafood,
meat products, textiles and apparel. In addition, labor costs are lower in
Honduras than in Costa Rica, Guatemala and Nicaragua. These advantages.
coupled with a relatively stable investment climate and comparatively good
labor-management relations, should keep Honduras reasonably competitive.



-9-
Government Policies
30.       The realization of these prospects will largely depend on government
policy and development efforts. These have been well oriented in recent
years. The increased level of public investment, particularly for infra-
structural improvements and in agriculture, forestry, tourism and industry,
is notable. To facilitate productive investment in industry, the Government
took two important institutional measures in 1974. It created CONADI to fill
a gap in industrial equity and term financing, and to expand public and
mixed Honduran ownership of larger scale enterprises. CONADI provides
long-term credit and supplies technical and managerial assistance through
equity participation in new industrial projects. As of the end of 1977,
CONADI lent US$35 million equivalent and issued some US$45 million equivalent
of guarantees for food processing, textiles and apparel, wood and paper
products, metal-mechanic industries and others.
31.       A second important institutional action in 1974 was the establishment
of COHDEFOR to manage all forest lands, develop Honduras' extensive forest
resources, and finance forest industry. COHDEFOR has sole responsibility for
all logging and sawing, as well as exporting wood products. It has grown into
a generally sound organization whose exports are now established in European
and USA markets. COHDEFOR's demonstrated capacity to make relatively high
profits has given it a financial base to expand its investment in, and
assistance to, forest industry development, with favorable prospects for the
growth of a modern, efficient forest products industry. COHDEFOR plans
investments in lumber processing in the next several years more substantial
than the US$11.4 million equivalent so far provided and on a longer term
basis.
32.       Under the 1979-83 Economic Development Plan, the Government's
targets established for industry are: (i) achievement of an average real
growth of 9 percent p.a. so that industry increases its contribution to
GDP from 17 percent in 1977 to 19 percent in 1983; (ii) growth of manufactured
exports by 15 percent p.a. in current terms, with the proportion of domestic
value added in exports progressively increasing; and (iii) more rapid develop-
ment of labor-intensive small and medium sized enterprises. To achieve these
targets, the Plan envisages: (i) a more selective import substitution strategy
focusing on efficient industries; (ii) increased promotion of exports outside
the CACM; (iii) identification of new industries in which Honduras might have
a comparative advantage; and (iv) providing increased credit and technical
assistance to small- and medium-sized industrial firms.
Industrial Finance
33.       Institutions providing finance to industry in Honduras include
the Banco Central de Honduras (BCH), the aforementioned CONADI and CORDEFOR,
13 commercial banks and, until recently, the Government-owned Banco Nacional
de Fomento (BANAFOM).
34.       BCH, established in 1950, is generally regarded as a well-managed
and adequately staffed organization. It has been active, apart from its
normal responsibilities as a central bank, in economic development. BCH has
established a rediscounting facility, available to a variety of financial



- 10 -
intermediaries, which has helped to finance inventories of export commodities
and to meet short-term liquidity requirements for agriculture and, to a lesser
extent, industry. BCH also operates a guarantee fund for financing non-
traditional exports, and has administered three IDA-supported agricultural
credit projects (Cr. 179-HO, 434-HO and 628-HO) in an effective manner.
35.       BANAFOM, the largest bank in Honduras, had been virtually the only
source of industrial term credit to small and medium size industry. By 1975
BANAFOM had acquired an industrial portfolio of US$6.3 million equivalent
of which about one-third was in arrears. The rather small size of such
loans, as well as the poor repayment record involved (42 percent of the number
of outstanding loans were in default) and the relatively high costs of admin-
istration associated with small loans, discouraged other banks from participa-
ting in such finance. In early 1977 the BCH undertook a review of BANAFOM's
activities and capabilities. As a result, it was decided that BANAFOM should
focus its resources on its expanded agricultural development responsibilities
and phase out all industrial lending.
36.       In recent years, reflecting BCH's efforts to increase competition in
commercial banking, important changes have occurred which have given the banking
system a broader base, an enlarged clientele, and an improved geographic spread.
As a result, the number of commercial banks has increased, and the system is
channeling an increasing amount of resources into agriculture and industry.
Honduras' 13 commercial banks have provided about 80 percent (US$102 million
as of December 31, 1977) of industrial credits. These credits, on average,
account for 22 percent of the commercial system's outstanding loans. However,
the commercial banks are engaged mainly in short-term lending activities. In
1976-77, loans for less than one year accounted for 72 percent of lending
while loans with maturities of three years and over accounted for only
8.7 percent of the total. A major factor has been the structure of interest
rates which discouraged commercial banks from seeking long-term funds.
37.       Monetary policy in Honduras has traditionally focused, inter
alia, on maintaining the stability of the lempira within a system of
free-currency convertibility, and controlling inflation by maintaining
the domestic inflation rate at about the same level as Honduras' principal
trading partner, the US. These objectives have been achieved principally
by modifying reserve requirements on deposits, regulating the percentage
of bank lending for particular purposes, limiting discount and rediscount
facilities mainly to agricultural crop and export financing, and taxing
non-essential imports. Partly as a result of these policies, inflation in
Honduras historically has been low. The consumer price index averaged 2.7
percent p.a. during 1966-73, accelerated to 13 percent in 1974, and then
declined to 8 percent in 1975, 5 percent in 1976 and 8.6 percent in 1977.
Interest rate adjustments have played a relatively small role in monetary
policy. The Government in the past decade has set maximum interest rates on
loans which have been modified infrequently. In the case of productive loans,
the maximum rates were constant at 8 percent between 1967-71 but were increased
during 1972-74 to 11 percent. Until recently, moreover, commercial bank lend-
ing rates did not distinguish between short and long-term loans.



- 11 -
38.       The Government's interest rate policy, and resource mobilization
efforts by commercial banks have succeeded in raising mainly short-term
resources. Consequently, internally generated resources have traditionally
been relied on for the financing of industry. Until 1971, equity, undistri-
buted profits, and depreciation reserves provided over two-thirds of indus-
trial resources, while loans and credits accounted for less than one-third of
financing. Since then, however, debt financing has rapidly increased in
importance and now accounts for about 40 percent of industrial finance.
39.       Over the long run, Honduras will have to mobilize a larger supply of
domestic capital to finance industrial development than it has so far. Appre-
ciating the difficulties of the scarcity of term financing, the Government
enacted new regulations earlier this year. These exempted interest rates for
productive loans with terms of three or more years from the 11 percent maximum,
with the proviso that they be related to the cost of mobilizing funds. The
new regulations should allow the commercial banks to charge rates attractive
enough to provide an incentive for a gradual shift to term financing.
40.       There are several other requirements to be met for Honduras to
develop effective and sustained industrial growth. Honduras' tariff structure
generally has not encouraged uneconomic or over priced manufacturing, and its
nominal protection rate is low by Central American standards. The effect of
tariffs and other incentives, particularly the liberal system of tax
exemptions, has been important in encouraging industrial investment overall,
although it has been costly in terms of revenue foregone, and it is likely
that much investment would have taken place with lesser incentives. Although
the Government is aware of some of the limitations of its industrial incentives
policy, it has been reluctant to alter it before a revision of the regional
system because of the competition within Central America for new investments.
The Bank has recently undertaken a study of industrial development policies in
the CACM. Its report should serve as a basis for further discussions with the
Central American countries. In the meantime, given the more outward orienta-
tion of the Government's industrial strategy and considering also, e.g., the
experience of BANAFOM (reference para. 35), it is especially important to over-
come the deficiencies of the public and commercial financial institutions in
conducting adequate evaluations of industrial loan applications. Under the
proposed loan, the sub-project review process would pay particular attention
to the economic justification of investments contemplated, regardless of the
incentives they might receive.
41.       Another requirement is the stimulation of small and medium industrial
growth on a sound basis. The importance of smaller enterprises in industrial
employment is likely to continue for some time. For this reason, it would be
essential to expand the small proportion of term financing that has been
accessible so far to small-scale enterprises. On this account, and recognizing
the disappointing results of past lending for smaller industry, the Government
has given special attention to this problem. It decided to upgrade its Industrial
Development Center (CDI). This agency, which had been largely helping individual
artisans, is being expanded to provide broader technical assistance services to
small and medium scale enterprises. Its budget has been substantially expanded.
The Government also has enacted a new law to promote the development of this
segment of industry. Its provisions include the extension to small scale
industry of the incentive system (tax and duty exemptions) available to larger
firms under the bilateral trade agreements with other Central American countries.



- 12 -
42.       There are substantial indications of an increasing demand for funds
consistent with the 9 percent annual growth rate targeted in the 1979-83
Industrial Development Plan. Banks are finding it increasingly difficult to
meet even the demand for short- and medium-term financing. Also, CONADI at
present has a pipeline of 11 projects and COHDEFOR of 17 projects, whose total
investment requirements over the next three years are about US$80 million
equivalent. Also, major commercial banks estimate that a number of important
projects would be put forward if long-term funding becomes available.
43.       To achieve the projected 9 percent annual growth rate over the 1978-83
period would require an estimated average new industrial investment of about
US$65 million per year of which 70 percent would be used for purchasing fixed
assets and 30 percent for working capital financing.  Based upon the increasing
importance of loan financing, it appears likely that on average about 50 percent
of incremental investment will be financed by lenders, i.e., $33 million in
additional resources would be required, on average, each year. The proposed
loan of US$15 million would, over the 1979-83 disbursement period, finance about
8 percent of the funds required. The remainder of the investment requirements
would be met largely as they have been in the past: through medium- and long-
term direct foreign loans; by medium- and long-term loans from CONADI and
COHDEFOR; and by loans made by commercial banks with their existing resources,
through renewal of short- and medium-term loans.
Bank Industrial Sector Activities
44.       The Bank has held discussions over a period of years with the Central
American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI), with a view to developing loans
for industrial credit in Central America. These efforts, however, have been
without success thus far, because of the failure to find a means of providing
member country guarantees for a Bank loan. While discussions designed to find
a solution to the guarantee problem have been initiated with the new adminis-
tration of CABEI which took office last year, the Bank is proceeding with
loans to individual countries to support industrial growth in Central America.
The first such loan was approved, for Costa Rica, in June 1978; the proposed
loan for Honduras would be the second.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Honduras Industrial Credit
Project", No. 2199-HO dated December 29, 1978, is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.  Supplementary data are contained in Annex III.
The project was appraised in May 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington
on December 11-14, 1978. The principal representative for the Government was
Mr. Gonzalo Carias, advisor to the President of the BCH.
Project Objectives and Structure
46.       The project would provide financial and technical support to
Honduras' Industrial Development Plan for 1979-83. It would help Honduras



- 13 -
build up an institutional capability to select, prepare, and finance efficient
industrial investment projects, particularly of small and medium manufacturing
firms and of firms proposing priority projects in the wood industry. It would
increase the amount of medium- and long-term credit to industry, thus providing
more appropriate financing for industrial expansion than is presently available.
47.       The project would be carried out by the National Industrial Develop-
ment Fund (FONDEI), which has been established and will be administered by
BCH. FONDEI would review and approve medium- and long-term loans for indus-
trial subprojects submitted by financial intermediaries. CONADI, CORDEFOR, and
up to seven commercial banks are expected to participate in the project.
48.       FONDEI would be headed by a qualified director responsible for managing
its day-to-day operations who reports to an executive committee, established
by BCH and consisting of the President of the BCH, the Minister of Economy,
and the representative of the national banking system who sits on the BCH
Board. The appointment of FONDEI's director would be condition of loan sign-
ing. The committee has over-all responsibility for FONDEI's operations, and
BCH will provide technical staff and logistic facilities. Detailed organi-
zation and staffing arrangements have been discussed with the Bank and appear
adequate to enable FONDEI successfully to carry out the project. 1/ Appoint-
ment of additional staff members to form an adequate initial complement would
be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Costs and Financing
49.       Based on estimates of the likely demand for industrial financing,
the resources available to the participating institutions and their capacity
to expand operations, the total cost of direct investment financed under the
project is estimated at US$28.4 million. The proposed loan of US$15 million
would meet all foreign costs which amount to 53 percent of the total project
cost. The balance of the financing will be provided by BCH (about 18 percent
of total costs), the subborrowers (about 19 percent), and the intermediaries
(about 10 percent).
50.       BCH would make US$5 million equivalent available to FONDEI as
paid-in capital in two equal tranches. A condition of loan effectiveness
would be that BCH had paid in US$2.5 million equivalent for FONDEI's initial
capital (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).  The Bank loan
would be repaid on a fixed amortization schedule in view of the likelihood of
many small subloans. BCH would assume the foreign exchange risk on FONDEI's
operations, for which it would levy a fee of 0.5 percent per annum on the
outstanding balance of subloans.
FONDEI's Policies and Operations
51.       FONDEI's policies and regulations would permit financing the purchase
of fixed assets, associated permanent working capital, installation of equipment,
1/ These arrangements have been created with a view also to FONDEI's serving
as the channel for a separate tourism project which the Bank has appraised.



- 14 -
preinvestment studies and technical assistance services. Projects eligible
for financing would entail the creation, expansion or modernization of
the productive capacity of enterprises involved in manufacturing, agro-
industry, forestry and wood processing, tourism, fishing and fish product
industries, and in providing mechanical or specialized transport services
closely related to industry. FONDEI's primary focus would be on financing
investment projects of small- and medium-sized industrial firms and priority
projects in the primary and secondary wood industry.
52.       The maximum financing for any single investment or enterprise
would be US$750,000 for general industry and US$1.5 million for COHDEFOR
subprojects. This is intended to avoid excessive concentration of project
financing in a few firms. Other limits apply to ensure that the project
significantly benefits small enterprises. Such enterprises would be defined
as firms with total assets, excluding land and buildings, of less than
US$100,000 equivalent. This definition corresponds approximately to firms
with up to 25 employees, and includes most firms which have had limited or
no access to credit from the banking system. FONDEI would (i) allocate at
least US$2.5 million of the proposed loan and sufficient counterpart financing
for small-scale firms; (ii) provide a differential spread to cover the higher
costs of small-scale lending; and (iii) coordinate with CDI to ensure that
small-scale projects are well prepared and receive the required technical
assistance.
53.       FONDEI would finance up to 65 percent of the cost of new industrial
projects, up to 75 percent for forestry subprojects, and up to 80 percent for
expansion and modernization subprojects. Financial intermediaries would
finance at least 10 percent of subproject costs and each subborrower the
balance. FONDEI's financing would be for up to 15 years for general industry
loans and a maximum of 17 years for forestry operations, with up to 3 years of
grace. All subloans would be denominated in local currency.
54.       The cost of FONDEI financing to the participating intermediaries
would vary with the size of the borrower. For COHDEFOR projects and general
industrial lending, FONDEI would charge 9 percent. As the participating
intermediaries will be permitted to charge no more than 12 percent to the
industrial subborrowers, this would allow a spread of up to 3 percentage points
to the intermediary. FONDEI would charge 7 percent on loans to small enter-
prises with fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) of less than US$40,000
equivalent, and 8 percent in cases of assets ranging between US$40,000-
100,000 equivalent, allowing margins of 5 percentage points and 4 percentage
points respectively to the intermediaries. These higher margins are intended
to give the latter adequate incentives for lending to small-scale industry.
The resulting average onlending interest rate of about 8.75 percent would give
FONDEI an adequate margin to cover administrative and other costs.
55.       Assuming, as expected, the participating intermediaries charge the
full spread allowed under the above arrangements, the effective cost of FONDEI
funds to industrial enterprises would be 12 percent. This is in line with
existing lending rates for medium and term loans (although interest rates to



- 15 -
industry for loans of 3 years or more are freely negotiable, actual rates for
such loans are 12-13 percent). Since the average inflation rate was 8.6
percent in 1977 and is not expected to exceed international levels in the next
3-4 years, the proposed subborrower interest rates would be positive and
reasonable when measured in real terms. Nevertheless, it has been agreed to
review by April 1, 1980 and periodically thereafter the adequacy of the
proposed relending rates and to revise them, if necessary, in light of such
review (Section 2.05(d) of the draft Project Agreement).
56.       During 1979-80, FONDEI would not be able to cover its administrative
costs and reimburse the Government for the commitment fee under the proposed
loan, and payments totalling about US$262,500 equivalent would need to be made
out of FONDEI's paid-in capital. Starting in 1981, FONDEI would earn a small
profit, and by 1983, when the Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed,
FONDEI would have an outstanding loan portfolio averaging about US$18.6 million
equivalent, yielding a net financial spread of 2.8 percent on average loan
amounts outstanding. FONDEI's net operating profit would be equal to a return
of about 7 percent on paid-in capital and accumulated retained earnings. Thus,
as long as the rate of inflation in Honduras maintains its traditional pattern
of not exceeding international rates, FONDEI should be able to meet its policy
objective of maintaining at least the real value of its capital, despite a
comparatively low debt/equity ratio of about 2.9:1.
Participating Institutions
57.       Participation in the project would be limited to financial institu-
tions which meet FONDEI's eligibility criteria, to be defined in participation
agreements. To qualify, an institution would have to employ staff capable in
FONDEI's judgment of performing project appraisals and of supervising projects
to ensure that resources had been used for the purpose intended and that
projects progress on schedule. It would be required also to adhere to specified
lending and repayment terms, and procurement and disbursement procedures. The
signing of participation agreements satisfactory to the Bank with COHDEFOR and
at least three other intermediaries would be a condition of effectiveness of
the loan (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). The intermediaries
would assume the full credit risk on subloans. They would also provide short-
term financing and working capital for subborrowers. The most any one inter-
mediary (other than COHDEFOR) would be permitted to commit of Bank loan funds
would be US$2.5 million except that loans to small-scale enterprises would be
exempted from this limitation.
58.       Participating intermediaries would be responsible for preparing
subproject appraisals and for sub-loan supervision. To ensure high quality in
this work, the intermediaries would follow guidelines which FONDEI would
issue.  FONDEI's approval of appraisal and supervision guidelines satisfactory
to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness, (Section 6.01(e) of
the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, the BCH is in the process of arranging
a two to three week project evaluation course for the staffs of FONDEI and the
other project participants. Initiation of the program would be a condition of



- 16 -
effectiveness for the proposed loan (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The requirements for appraisal of subprojects would vary in
accordance with their size and nature. In the case of small industries,
appraisals would focus on the viability of the enterprise and its investment
plan. The first ten subloans to small-scale industry would be submitted to
the Bank for review and comment. Larger projects would be subject to a more
detailed review of their technical, financial, marketing and economic aspects.
All appraisals would include calculations of employment, domestic value added,
and net foreign exchange earnings and savings effects. For any subloans above
US$250,000, the internal economic rate of return would be calculated, and
these subloans would require Bank approval. On this basis, the Bank should
review 30-40 subloans covering about two-thirds of the loan amount.
59.       Inasmuch as Honduras' forests represent one of its major natural
resources, and given forestry's potential for generating substantial foreign
exchange earnings and employment, COHDEFOR's investment program warrants
special attention in Honduras' industrial financing plans. For this reason,
US$6 million of the proposed loan would be earmarked for wood industry projects
(Section 2.02(c)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement). Since COHDEFOR would have
a substantial responsibility under the project as a financial intermediary,
it would establish a forestry industries financing fund and a project unit to
handle project promotion, appraisal and supervision. COHDEFOR also would
adopt a statement of operating policy for the fund to define standards for
project lending, appraisal, loan approval and supervision activity as well as
procurement, disbursement and accounting. Its approval by COHDEFOR's Board
and the Bank, along with the establishment of the forestry fund and project
unit, would be a condition of disbursement for the part of the loan reserved
for COHDEFOR's subprojects (Section 2.02(f)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
A special account would be established in FONDEI for COHDEFOR's lending
operations.
Technical Assistance for Small-Scale Industry
60.       An important component of the project, to be financed by the Govern-
ment and a UNDP grant, is technical assistance designed to ensure effective
utilization of small-scale industry credit. To this end, the Government
plans to strengthen the CDI so that it can provide a comprehensive range of
services to small enterprises. CDI would be transformed into an autonomous
institution and given increased funds to enable it to engage in project
promotion, preparation and technical assistance. The goal is to enable
CDI to assist some 50 firms during the first year of the project, and
eventually 100 to 200 per year. It is expected that financial inter-
mediaries would refer small enterprises to CDI for, in the first instance,
help in obtaining the data needed to support subloan applications. During
project implementation, CDI would provide guidance and supervision to their
clients. For these tasks, since CDI has so far concentrated on assistance
to artisans, it will need to recruit new staff (industrial economists and
an engineer), who would participate in the aforementioned project evaluation
training program. For the next two years, CDI would also have to obtain
consultants for improving its operations, which the UNDP has agreed to finance.



- 17 -
UNIDO is expected to be the executing agency. Arrangements for the consultants'
employment would be a condition of effectiveness for the loan (Section 6.01(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). CDI has adopted satisfactory staffing plans,
1979-80 budget proposals, and policy regarding charges for its service (a fee
of not more than 2 percent of the subloan amount).
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       For small-scale subprojects, the Bank would reimburse FONDEI for 75%
of FONDEI's total financing of individual subprojects. For other industrial
subprojects and COHDEFOR subprojects, the Bank would disburse for (i) 100
percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported machinery, equipment,
raw material inventories and services; (ii) the CIF cost of imported equip-
ment purchased off-the-shelf or 70 percent of local expenditures for such
goods where the CIF price cannot be ascertained; (iii) 35 percent, representing
the estimated average foreign exchange content, of investments in civil works;
and (iv) for forestry subprojects, the indirect foreign exchange cost of
inventories, which are estimated at 20 percent. The intermediaries and FONDEI
would satisfy themselves that procurement was suitable and reasonably priced,
and that the beneficiaries had canvassed the main sources of supply. For
larger procurement contracts, items would be procured on basis of several
quotations, in accordance with standard practice for IDF-type projects.
Project Benefits and Risks
62.       The subprojects financed are expected to have a significant
economic impact. The bulk of financing would go to those subsectors which
depend on domestic raw materials and which provide most of manufactured ex-
ports (i.e., lumber and wood projects, food products, textiles and garments,
and chemicals). The total investment generated by the project is expected
to result in the creation of about 4,000 new jobs (equivalent to 11 percent
of factory sector employment according to the 1975 industrial census) at a
relatively low investment cost of US$6,800 per job in 1978 prices. Under the
wood industry component of the project, new jobs would be provided at a slightly
lower average cost of US$5,300 per job, due mainly to the labor intensive
nature of projects in the primary and secondary wood subsectors. Such projects
would largely benefit families of modest means living in small towns and villages
in the Comayagua forest region.
63.       Indirect benefits from the project are hard to measure, but primary
wood industry project components would normally include, as part of the indus-
trial infrastructure, such features as basic housing for forest industry
workers and their families, water, electricity, medical services and education
facilities. Local small farmers would benefit also from new forest access
roads and transportation to market centers. It is anticipated that the impact
of the program will be geographically dispersed, with forestry projects in the
central part of the country, agro-industrial subprojects mainly along the
north coast, and other manufacturing subprojects mainly in the cities of
San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa.



- 18 -
64.       The project would also contribute to filling a major gap in term
financing of industrial projects in Honduras by providing financing for about
165 subprojects. Total project financing would represent about 8 percent of
the new credits required by industry over the expected loan disbursement
period (1979-83). In addition, the project would substantially improve the
capacity of participating financial intermediaries to base their lending
activities on detailed project preparation and evaluation.
65.       By providing for creation of a specialized project unit within
COHDEFOR, the proposed project would help build the institutional capability
necessary for expanding wood industry project promotion, preparation, evalua-
tion and financing, and the establishing of ecologically sound programs of
forest management.
66.       The proposed project, as conceived, does not involve any unusual
risks. However, because the institutional arrangements established under
the project would be both new and untried, some initial delays in subloan
processing by both the financial intermediaries (including COHDEFOR and
CONADI) and FONDEI may occur. To minimize delays in project implementation,
Bank supervision of, and assistance to, FONDEI would be intensive during
the first year, and the Bank would participate (through its normal project
supervision missions) in training programs for the staff of FONDEI and
participating institutions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Central Bank of Honduras
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal
pattern of loans for IDF-type projects and their more important features
including special conditions of loan effectiveness are referred to in
Part IV of the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. There is one
special condition of disbursement under the Loan Agreement, i.e. that for
the US$6 million allocation of funds for CORDEFOR, COHDEFOR's project unit
and fund are established, with operating policies for the fund acceptable
to the Bank.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
jaeuary 11, 1979



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TAHLE 3A
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
HONDURAS                                                  /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. R14.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             112.1                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       28.7                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb        REGION IC   GROUP Id    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   170.0       260.0      450.0           1066.7       432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      155.0        247.0      232.0            911.1      251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          1.9          2.5        3.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 23.0          26.8       31.4             57.9        24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         17.0        22.0       27.0             25.6        42.7        50.8
PER SQ. 104. AGRICULTURAL LAND     69.0         89.0      104.0             77.6       95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          47.8         48.1       48.1             42.0       44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                          49.7         49.2      49.1              52.2       52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.5          2.7        2.8              3.7         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0          2.7 If    2.7 If            2.7         2.7          2.5
URBAN                               5.3 /R        ..        5.1              4.3         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       54.0        51.5       49.3             35.8        42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       26.5        19.1       14.6              9.1        12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.4        3.3              2.6         3.2          2.5
FAMIl.Y PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        12.7       23.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..             15.1        14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              82.7        100.0         ..            102.1       104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    84.0         99.0       90.0            103.9       99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.0         58.0       56.0             60.3        56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        21.0         25.0         ..             26.7        17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       14.0        10.0        9.0              8.7         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.0          49.4       53.5             62.6        53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..          ..      118.0             56.9        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        34.0       41.0             60.7        31.1        56.8
URBAN                                           99.0       99.0             78.0        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                 ..        10.0       13.0             34.9        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        24.0         ..             61.1        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                 *-        64.0         ..             80.3        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                 *-         9.0         *-             25.4        25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..      3600.0 /h 3140.0            1899.3      9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    19120.0 L/   8930.0    7680.0 /1           1220.1      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              620.0 /1    570.0      630.0            422.3       786.5        493.9
URBAN                                          150.0                       258.2       2 78 .4     229.6
RURAL                                        11810.0         ..           2281.6      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..      24.0             25.6        19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.7          ..         .               5.2          ..          5.2
URBAN                                5.5          ..         ..               ..          ..          5.0
RURAL                                5.7          ..         ..               ..          ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.4          ..         ..              2.0          ..          2.0
URBAN                                1.8          ..         ..              2.1         2.3          1.5
RURAL                                2.7          ..         ..              2.7          ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               15.0          ..         ..             51.2        28.3         64.1
URBAN                               56.7           ..        ..             77.3          ..         67.8
RURAL                                2.0           ..         ..             12.8       10.3         34.1



- 21 -                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
HONDVRAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
HONDURAS                                                    /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHEIR
MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /Ld    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  67.0                     90.0             103.5        75.8          99.8
FEMALE                 67.0                    88.0             102.9         67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    8.0          12.0       16.0              37.2        17.7          33.8
FEMALE                  7.0         12.0       13.0              37.9         12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 24.0             18.0                         14.7         7.4          12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              32.0          35.0       35.0              32.8        34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                            10.0                                       17.8        23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           47.0                    53.0              74.9        63.7          71.8
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            3.0           5.0        5.0              26.9         7.2          12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           68.0          57.0       54.0             173.5        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.0           8.0       16.0              69.4        14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     21.0                    35.0              72.8        16.3          45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                                                4.3         1.6           4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR PORCE (THOUSANDS)         570.0         700.0 /k  760.0 /k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     12.5          12.8       13.3              21.4        28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                67.0          62.3       60.3              37.8        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   10.6          12.5       14.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   31.5         30.6       29.8              30.8        37.8          33.8
MALE                                    55.3         53.5       51.8              47.2        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                   7.8          7.8        7.9              13.2        20.9          17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.6          1.5        1.8               1.7         1.3           1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                    28.0 /1j                    28.9         19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   60.6  1                      57.7        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS                     2.5 /1                       3.2         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                     8.4 /1                     10.7         15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                 .                       251.9        155 9        191 9
RURAL                                                        105.0            200.6         97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                        155.0            403.1       143.7         319.8
RURAL                                   .            .       111.0            258.0        87.3         197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                         15.0             24.8        22.9          19.8
RURAL                                                         70.0             65.2        36.7          35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the mset populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d   Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate
Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  Intarcensal growth rate (1961 and 1974 censuses; due
to emigration of El Salvadorean residents in Honduras, the population growth rate ia lower than rate
of natural increase; /R 13 important urban centers; /h Registered, not all practicing in the country;
/i 1963; /1 Personnel in government services only; /k Aged 10 years and above; /1 1967-68, per
capita income.
September. 1978



- 22-
DEFINITIONS Of SOCIL INDICATOILS                                                    ANNEX   I
5lg:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator antd the most
popul.ated country in each group. Coverage of countries emmag the indicators depends on availability of data end is not uniform. Due to lack of data.
group averages for Capital surplus Oil RExporters cod indicators of access. to water end excreta diapoeal. housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric -ean" without the eeqlusion of eatreame values.
LAND) AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total, urban, end rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inlanLd water*.                      urban, ad rural) divid*d.by their respective number of hospital beds.
A.tclt.ral - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily               available in public end private general and specialized hospital and te-
ot permanently for crops, pastures. serket and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishaents permanently staffed h.
lie folIos,.                                                                           at least one physician.  tstablishmnts providing principally custodial
care are set included. Rural hospitals. however. include health and medi-
GNP  tPER CAPITA (USO) - GNP per capita estimtats at current market prices,               cal centers set permanently staffed by a phyilcien (but by a medical us-
calculated by same conversion method as Vorld Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);              sistent, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acrormod.tico and
1960. 1970. and 1977 data.                                                             provide a limited renge of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUM4PTION PER CAPITA - Annual consuaption of coemarcial energy                  from hospitals divided by th. number of beds.
(coal end lignite, petroleum. natural gas end bydro- * nuclear end geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per househiold) - total, urban. end rural -
POPULATION A.ND VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A household consists of a group of individuals who share living icurters
To tal population  mi-yer( lions) - As of July 1; if set available,                      end their main meale.  A boarder or lodger may or ray not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960. 1970. and 1977 data,                          the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of housa-
urban Population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold very.
tion; different definLitions of urban area" may aLffect comparability               Average number of persons Per room - total, urban, and rural - Aversge nun-
of data smong countries,                                                               ber of parsons per roone in all. urban, and rural occupied  oovn"tional
Pouaindnity                                                                      dwellings. respectively.  Omee1lags exclude no-emnn   tr-onres and
Pe  s.  o  -  id-year population per Square kilometer (100 hectares)uocpidpt.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electSrric6it, (percent of dwellings) - tote.1 urban, and trura  -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only,                                                                                  of total. urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population sac tructure (percent) - Children (0-14 yerar), working-age
(15-64 years)  and ret'ired (65 years and over) as prerentagea of mid-            EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adiusted enrollment ratios
PoPulation srowth rats (percent) - total. and urban - Compound annual                  Primary school - total. =An feasule - Total end female enrollment of a11 ages
growth rat"a of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the priamary level eas percentages of reepsctiyely primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; normally includes children aged b-il yearn hut adjusted for
Crude birth rate (par thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primery education; for countries with univeral edu-
mid-year population; teo-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end                   cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since. some pupils are below  or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for mset rarent estimate,                    above the official school age.
Crude death rate (par thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Secondary school - total, end female - Computed as above; se ondary edua-
year population; tan-Peer arithmetic av.rsees ending In 1960 and 1970                  toi rqure  at leat four years of approved primary Instrucion; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                         videe general vocational, or teacher training  inatru-tions for pupils
Cross rsproduction rats - Average number of daughters a wonman will bear                 usually of 12 to 17 years of ago; correspondence courses are generally
in her onrmal neproductiye period if she experienc.es present age-                    ecluded.
specif ic fertility rates; usually five-3Fear averages endlng in 1960.              Vocational enrollment ( percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970. and 1975.                                                                        clude technial. industrial, or other programs which operate i.depeude.tlv
PFamily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annul nu-ber of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national famtily              Pupil-taacher ratio - primary. and secondary - Total students enrolled ic
planning program.                                                                      prisery end secondary levels divided by nunbers of teachers in the corre-
Pawily planning - users (percent of setrned women) - Percentage of                       speeding levels.-
married wome  of child-bearing age (IS-44 years) who ..e birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (sble to read and writs) us
devices to all married wonmn in nam  %ag  group.                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUtFlTION
_Index of fond production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                 Passenger cars (par thousand populatio,n) - Passen.ger cars comprise motor tars
capite annual praduotios of all fond commodities.                                    sataing less than .siht persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita Supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent of net fond supplies available in country par capita             Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  AvaLilable supplies comprias domestic production, ieorts lose             broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; secludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds.             rsceivers in countries end in yearn when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processeing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                effect; data for recent yearn may not be coeparable since  .ost countries
quireme.t. were estimated by PAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
mel activity and bealth considering environetal temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand Population) - TV receivers for broadcas.t to g .n.ri
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; "exludes unlicensed TV ..eceivers to coOn-
cent for wear  at household leval.                                                     trise snd in years when registration of TV socs was in effect.
Per capita supply of priotein (g-rams Per day) - Protein content of per              Newspaper circulation (par thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of f            .dprdY.  Not supply of fond is defined as            tion o   daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical p.bli-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It Is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 groas of total protein per day end 20 grams                  he "daily"~ if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grems should be animal protein.           Cinema anmual attendance per capita per year - Based ont the number of tickets
These standards are lowr then those of 75 gtems~ of total protein and                  sold during the year, including adeissions to drive-in cinene and nobil.
23 grass of animal protein ca an averege for the world, proposed by                    units.
PAD in the Third World Pond Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and Pulse - Protein supply of food            E4LOThEINT
derived from  animals and pulses in gram  per day.                                 Total labor force (thousands) - tconomicallp  acti-s persons, including steed
Child (asom 1-4) morteity rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unmeployed but secluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
samd In age group 1-4 pears, to children in thbie age group.                           tions in various countries are not comparable.
FPseale1 (Percent) - Fseals1 labor force as percentago cf total l.bor for-n
NR.uINH                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in framing, fo-osry. hunting and f;ohiro
Life enpecranc  at birth__(years) - Average nueber of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
remaining  tI birth; usually five-peer averages endintg in 1960, 1970,             Industry (percent) - Labor force in moining, construction. manufacturing a-d
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water and gas &e percentage of total labor force.
-Infant mortality rete (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total, sale. and female - Total, emale, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              eamle labor force as p.rce.. ages of their repctv   popultion.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban. end rural -                 rhese are rTb's adju t.d participation rates retl-cting  .a.-se
Number of people (total, urban,. and rural) with r"easonble access to                  scructure of the popolatlos, ond loot ti-e trend.
safe water supply (Includes treated surface waters or untreated but                 Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and h5 sod once to
unc-otmiosced water such as that from protected boreholas, springs,                    the labor forte in age group of 15-64 years..
and sanitary wells) as prerentages of their respective populations.
to an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within tea-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and bind) received by richest 5
...nable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                 percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent. and poorest 40 percent
imply thar the ho-..-if. or mebers of the household do not have to                     of householde.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching che family's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to exrtret disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                Estimated absolute PovertY income level (US$ par capita) - urban and rura..
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excret&                     Absolute poverty income level is that Income level below whith a minit-i
dispoeal as percentages of their respective populations.  Ecoreta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential no-food requlrent 1..    n o  s.t
disposal mey include the collection and disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treatment, of huma  sexcrets and waste-water by water-borne, systems                Eteimatod relative pove-ty inom -lve  (US$ per ait)-ra   and rural-
or the sue 01 pit privisa and simiar installations.                                    Relative poverty Income leve  Ls that income level less than ....e-irdT
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita personel income of the country.
physici-an  qualified from  a medical school at university level.                   Estimated population below poverty Income le-e  (per-nt) - urban and rur.l1
Population par nursing person - Population divided by number of                          Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either 'absolute pour" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses. and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data  iiso
Econonic Aonaly.i. mod  c-Jec-i-a  Dep-rt.-



23                                                                   AMUn  I
(A-to in  nillios  of US dolIlr)
A O t ua I                        Projected                   G r o w t h  Ra  t s                      1976 Shmr.
1965    1970    1973    1976       1977(p)    181      1985     1965-1973   1973-1976     1976-1981    1981-1985        or GODP
NATIOGL AECaS (1)
Dilliooo ofas at 1967-69 Price)
Grosa DinStio Product             549.2   678.1   764.8   834.8    904.1         1106.7  1345.2        4.2         3.0          5.6           5.o           100.0
Gains fro  Ter  of Trads            8.4    -6.0    -7.9   -15.7        21.1       -27.0   -45.2                                                              -1.9
Gross Doseatio Ineos              557.6   672.1   756.9   819.1    925.2         1079.7  1300.0        3.9         2.7           5.7           4.8           98.1
oporta                            1,449    222.5   210.5   249.7    JNd           542.5   405.0        4.8         5.9           6.5           4.3           29.9
Roports - Volume                 -138.9  -184.9  -210.4  -233.1   .iJ            -327.5  -409.8        5.3         8.5           7.0           .8            27.9
Eaporto - Tf.Adju t.d            -147.3  -178.9  -202.5  -217.5    eW            -300.5  .364.6        4.1         2.4          6.7            4.9           26.1
Re-owres Gap - WT.Adjuated         -2.4    43.5       8.0    32.2      18e         42.0    40.4                                                               3.9
Total Co.nwption                  472.6   569.1   629.8   688.3    763   a        883.0  1033.4        3.7         3.0          5.1            4.0           82.5
tovestast                          82.6   11.6.5   135.1   163.0                  238.7   307.0        5.3         6.5           7.9          6.5            19.5
National Savings                   75.1    88.4   108.6   116.2    1788           163.0   210.0        4.7         2.3           7.0          6.5            1349
Dotic Saving.                      85.1   103.0   127.1   130.8       13.8        196.7   266.6        5.1         1.0           8.5           7.9           15.7
GOP at Current U26                508.7   714.8   899.0  1213.6   1470.0         2256.4  3595.1        7.4       lo.5           13.2         12.3
Setor Ountput
(Share of ODP at 1967-9 Prices)
Agri-Itur.                        0.375    0.358    0.360    0.281    0.290       0.290    0.287
Industry                          0.201    0.218    0.226    0.239    0.239       0.2Se   0.251
Ser.i.so                          0.424   o.424   0.414   0.459       0.471       0.Wo6  0.462
Ibrchaodis fr.a                                   k O t     I                                   P  r o 1c t ijoo 
(isd. of COeract Or4)              197        3       75       7       1977       1970    199         00    191    195
tort
.17Food                            14.3    21.5    45.o    37.7        39.1       44.6    48.6       52.8    57.5    72.4
1.2 Other Oonr Good                53.9    42.9    49.8    65.2        92.5       90.3   102.2    I13.2   131.1   186.1
2. Pstrol,Oil,Ibricaote           14.7    25.5    68.5    48.2        64.o       77.4    89.0    102.3   117.7   195.4
3. Othsr Iotr_edi te Good,         84.5   100.2   135.9   175.7    199.1         238.3   271.7    309.8    Sl3.1   530.0
4. Capital Goode                   55.3    79.5   110.8   138.8    169.6         184.0   223.0    239.2   269.0   443.3
5.1 Total Gcodo (oif)             222.7   269.6   410.0   465.6    564.3         634.6   734.5    817.3   928.4  1427.2
5.2 Total Goods (fob)             203.4   243.6   377.6   427.0    550.5         591.1   675.7    751.9   854.1  1313.0
6. Non-Pctor SIoico.              40.9    62.8    76.7    82.0        95.0       99.0   108.0    117.3   131.4   208.4
7. Total Goods and NFS            244.3   306.4   454.3   509.0    645.5         690.1   783.7    869.2   985.5  1521.4
E orto
1.1 I  .a                          75.3    94.0    61.5   106.7    125.4         149.3   167.2    181.0   201.5   307.5
1.2 Coffee                         25.9    48.5    56.9   100.3    168.o         166.8   146.3    3114.9   142.4   143.3
1.3 Lobr                           16.2    39.1    38.8    38.0        47.5       53.7    63.5       87.5   127.1   242.1
1.4 Beef                            9.7    21.9    18.3    25.6        22.4       27.8    33.6       40.4    43.7    84.7
1.5 Sugar                           1.2       -       7.0      2.2      4.0       1Z.0    16.2       i8.8    20.8    37.4
1.6 Patrolous DOeriv.t-ts           6.2      4.1    12.3       1.1      0.2        2.7      2.9       3.1      3.3      4.3
2. All other goods                 43.6    60.6    U3.1   129.6    132.3         1716    192.0    218.9   249.5   441.5
3. Total Goods (fob)              178.1   268.2   307.9   403.5    51"8          583o9    621.7    691.6   788.3  1260.8
4. Noc-Bettor Srioss               18.4    26.3    36.6    39.6        S3.0      5%3       57.8      66.5    76.4   130.0
5. Total Goods nd R13             196.5   294.5   344.5   443.1    572.8         6314.2   679.5    758.1   864.7  1390.8
Pri..o (1967-69 - 1001                           A O t o . 1                        Proj.ctd                   O r o w t h   R a t *
it      17S 0.W           -5 0   Y7  'utpj    T       T98I       1905-0Y73   1973-197h 6  976-19       91
Eoport Price Index                 99.81  106.26   139.98   190.09     236.82    264.03   339.39       4.3         10.7         6.8         6.5
Itport Pries Index                 94.08   109.82   145.56  203.84     218.42   287.74   375.70        5.6        11.9         7.1          6.9
Torm  of frade Index              106.08    96.78    96.17    93.25    108.42     91.76    90.30      -1.2        -1.0        -0.3         -0.4
GDP Deflator (USt)                 92.62   105.41   117.55   145.38    162.61   203.89  267.00         3.0          7.3         7.0         7.0
no-al Average Exchange Rate         2.00     2.00     2.00    2.00       2.00      2.00     2.00
Selected Indicato                  1%65-73   1973-76   1976-81    1981-85                                   Labor Pmores sod Outout pr Worker     Vain Addd FPr Worker
Total labor PoF 17   rices sodSoosoe Rts
IOSR                                 4.18       5.82      3.91       4.36                                   In mllions          S of lotl       Ic 0 dollars    f 7    -er8g
lIport Elasticity                    i14       1          1.12       0.96                                         5   -7'T 176                                      1976-
Avrage NAtional Gaviogo Rats         0.14       0.i4      0.15       0.16                  Agricltore        OUw                  5       ;                          .7
Kargio1 National Sgaioge Rate        0.17       o.15      0.18       0.21                  Industry            0.119               14.8             2529           186.5
LIporto/OL1P (cin -ort pri,es)       0.29      0.41       0.42       0.143                 Sries             0.19                  21               2352           173.
IocsOcat/ODP                         0.16      0.20       0.21       0.22                    Total    5
Reso-rce GOp/GDP                     0.02       0.05      9.03       0.23
Detail. 00 Pblic Seotor lvovateet Prognsullixed)
P2blic Finance Selected Coicaero    1965       1970       1973      1976      1977      1981                                    Aj er    g5of totr 
Central Goer,rect Current                                                                                                             A
ReBucuoo/GDP                       10.9       13.2       11.0      15.D     16.       16.4           Social Sactoos        20.78307            712
Tax Reescose/GDP                    9.6       11.1      10.7      12.8      114.5     15.4          Agricoltore             3.8       4.9          6.4
Correct EVpecditureo/GDP            9.2       11.1      10.6      114.5     14.4      14.0           Forestry                -        2.1          9.5
Correct ertiogo/GOP                 1.7        2.1        0.4      0.6       2.0       2.5          Posr                   22.7      22.0         36.2
Cur-et lvios/I.eatcest, Ep..   96.0           45.7      61.3      10.0      32.3      53.7           Transport and
Counicationw         52.9     38.7         29.3
PFblic Capital ElpcditturetGOP       2.5        7.5        3.6      8.5       9.4      10.6           Otbsr                   -        0.1          2.4
PFblic SOingo/PNblic Cpita1 Rope. 95.3        42.6       62.o      34.7      53.9      333              Total              100       100.0        100.0
FuEliEmor Saviogs  39.9        34.4         44.0
Capital Rs-rvoo        4.3       1.8          1.9
REt. Pioccing (Nt)  40.4        60.0         49.1
tot. BorrowiDg (set)  15J4         8          5.0
Total              1i         0 0.1         1.0
(1) ComponrDts say not dd op b c.a.s of rouodiog.
(p) Prclliniry.



- 24 -
AIIIE I
HONDLlRASANEI
13ALANO  OF PA7JENTS, XRDIS AUL ASSISTANCE AND GEElT
(I  millions of US dollars at otrreet prices)
A c       l                                             P ro         t i    n a
1970     1913     1951      1976     1977(P0       197d     1979        9dO       1901      1902       19035
SkloA,ry of Balance or Payote
1. ECporte (incl. FS)                   196.5    291.8    344.5    4h3.1        572.8      634.2       679.5    758.1      864.7   913.6       1390.8
2. .eporte (ioc. NFS)                   2h4.3    306.4    454,3    509.0        645.5      690.1       783.7    869.2      985.5   1096.5      1521.4
o  " Reo-c  B.larac                   --47.8    -11.6   -109.8    -66. o       472.7      -55.9      -104.2   -111.1    4120.8   -122.9       -130.6
4   faetor  ServieJ                  -22.6    -301    -275    -56.2          .61.8       -66S0      -80.0    -90.0       .98.0   102.0 9    149.0
a. Set Icterest Paye-te               -2.5      -5.6    -10.1    -15.1       -90.0       -23.0      -28.7    -36.6      -42.5   -48.7        -89.0
b. Direct I-eet-reet Iecoee          -20.0   -21.3    -16.9   -_1.1          -41.8      43.0        -51.3    -53.4      -55.5    -56.3       -60.0
c. Other                             - 0.1    - 3.2    - 0.5         -          -                -          -         -         -         -
5. Correct Tra-frere (cot)                6.6       6.3     17.7     13.2        13.4        14.0       15.0      16.0      20.0      23.0       30.0
6. Sahao 06 Corro.t Accoont             -63.8    -35.4   -119.6  -108.9        -121.1    -107.9    -169.2   -185.1    -198.8  -204.9           -249.6
7. Pri-to  Dirct Ievootment               8.4       5.5     10.9      7.6        10.0        20.0       25.0      30.0      35.0     h0.0        60.0
fublc M & LT LIne
6. Dioborse-mt                           28.7      18.1     99.2      84.2      104.6      117.7       154.9    153.5      170.7    i86.o       2.9.5
9. Matheatioc                             3.1       5.6      6.4     13.3        21.5        25.4       27.4      31.3      38.5      48.7       97.7
10. Set Disb-rsoenets                     25.6      12.5     92.8     70.9        83.1        92.3      127.1    122.2      132.2    137.3       151.8
otter 11 & LT Loa-e
11. fet Dibor-eecto                        0.4      -3.5     10.3     11.7        17.5        30.8       27.6      29.5      31.0      33.2       50.o
12. Other                                  4.3      20.3     12.2     18.5
1I. Uee of IMIF R.e.orce                   6.3      _7.5       -        -
14. Shior-Te-n Capital (cct)               5.0        -       0.9     24.3       4h.6
11. Aloca..tioc or SIE,                    3.2        -        -         -          -                      -         -         -        --
Sl. .paita  Tr-avactioce c.i.e.            0.9      11.5      9.4     -1.1       -16.2
17. hoge io reser.e.   (-i. cree. e)       7.7      -3.4    -15.9    -23.0       -39.1      -35.2       -10.5       3.4       0.6     -5.6       -12.2
it. Ocet Forcign Eocih-ge le,er.e-
(end of Poriod)                       9.0     30.0     48.7      71.7       111.1      146.3       156.8    153.4      152.8    158.4       170.6
Crot cod boo- Co=leetet                                                                                                                          A c t p 1
1/i~i.l a-to                   6.o        -        -10 M.di-- end Loam-Tern (Disbareed                           1970    1973    1975    1976    1977
1. Utticlol Irooto  -/                     -       6.3        -       . -          -           nl
2. fot.l ?9blic M & LT Lo...             22.7     5O.l   182,3    150.3         223.8        f614   Delbt O.et. (DOD end of period)  90.1   133.6   264.1   336.2  436.2
d. 1RRO                                5.5     18.8      38.0     35.0        12.0        Prblic Debt Service                      5.6    11.2    16.6    28.5   40.7
b. IDA                                 8.1       6.6      -       14.o         5.0          Ietereet                               2.5      5.6    10.2    15.1   21.1
Other Co hiilatera                  9.1      6.9      05.3     38.9       127.5          A.cortletioc                           3.1      5.6     6.4    13.h   19.6
lcoorre,octe                ~~     ~~~~- 6.0  53.2    29.7       50.0         other M & L Debt levele                   -       -        -       -       -
c. 0o  eict Ceotrohly Plenccd Eco-oliec -         -        -        -           -         Total Dbbt Service                       5.6    11.2    16.6    28.5   ao.7
Scpplierc                             _      7.8        -      11.2          .4
a.  .ic.cia-. InstitutioP'               -      4.1       5.6     21.5        21.0        Debt B            orde-
R.ti.              ~~~~2.0   3.8     o.8     .4.     7.1
Memoraada, Itsee                                                                             Debt Service batlo  2/                 13.1    11.3      9.7    15.7    1
Debt S-ricce/GDP                        0.8      1.2     1.6             2 7
1. .rant Elhonot of Otal C-ooit-ectv  45.5        29.7     19.6     26.7                    Poblic Debt Service -CeRtr-l Oce. Re7. 6.0        9.9    13.9    15.1   17.1
2. Average Interest (peroe-t)            4.1      5.8       7.9      6.1                    Terkos
1. Avoroge MNtority (ye-rc)             29.6     25.2      18.9     22.3                    7etere-t cc Total DOD/Total DOI          2.8     L.2      3.9     h.5    4.8
hterrnal Debt (Diobvoeed 3tly)                 E    etimed  Debt                            Total Debt Service/Total DOD             6.3      8.4     6.3     8.5    9.3
EEL~~~~~~~a                          U. roeted ,Dec.3r. 1977
=~~~t  P.,   t.                        '~~~~Dedeecy Natis toe 1 & 1 Debt
01w0                                8S.okuiouDt             P                            Orcee lisbbcromeete/IPOrts)cith NFS) 11.7        5.9    21.8    1S.9   18.3
8ck G-roop                           S9.e 5                                              Net Tra.erers/Icorte                    2.7     2.1      3.9     2.4    2.2
Other Otltilateral                  120.3                  27.6                          Net Tra-ceref/OGo.s Dieb-reese  to      23.3    34.8    17.8    h.8   11.8
Gooveett                            129.9                  29.8                           E
Soppilero-   Crcdit.                 19.6                   4.5                                               .../   Octal Slab.  31    12.2    13.3    16.6   18.5
Ficarocie  I vtitoticc              46.6                   10.6                             kl. Dib          -./ -Tt1
total A! & L poblic Debt           136.2                 10.0                            Sac k Armor Dihetcroene,ee/Oro,e Total
ovdieb1reeo                       787.2ll ENo.5T-0010R DOD/Total lDU                                                           33.2    31.2    01.4    20.1   19.9
,rndisbursed)   787.2            lSo.S                           Lh8L O~~~0010  eli Serviva/Total Debt Sero.    38.5    40.8    35.1    23.1.   21.1
B-Nk Oroop DOD/Total 30D               80.1    h9.2    32.3    29.2   27.5
Back Orcup Debt Sler/Total Debt Serv. 39.6    43.5    37.1    24.6   21.9
LI  D-riega in fore-igecueey.
2/  Debt Service sa3d Direct Ioveet.ect I-c-d,
Tp) Praliielary



- 25 -                     ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS 1/ (Net of Cancellations)
(As of October 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit                                                          US$ million amount
No.       Year         Borrower            Purpose        Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and credits fully disbursed    61.1    24.0
841        1972   Emp. Nacional de        Generation and
Energia Electrica      Transmission  12.3        -        1.0
896        1973   Honduras                Roads            18.8       -        0.7
434        1973   Honduras                Second Live-       -       6.6       1.9
stock Dev.
452        1974   Honduras                Education          -       3.0       0.1
954        1974   Honduras                Education         3.0       -        1.9
1081        1975   Emp. Nacional de        Generation and
Energia Electrica      Transmission  35.0        -        5.0
628        1976   Honduras                Agricultural
Credit          -      14.0       11.2
1341/2      1976   Honduras                Highways         35.0       -       25.9
1395/6      1977   Honduras/Emp.
Nacional Portuaria  Ports             12.0       -       12.0
696        1977   Honduras                Ports              -      5.0        1.9
777        1978   Honduras                Education          -      5.0        5.0
1576        1978   Honduras                Regional
Development   10.5       -        10.5
Total                                         187.7    57.6
of which has been repaid                     25.2      0.8
Total now outstanding                         162.5    56.8
Amount sold                        4.5
of which has been repaid        2.6           1.9       -
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /1                                  160.6    56.8
Total undisbursed                              57.0    20.1        77.1
/_   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of October 31, 1978)
Amount in US$ million
Year          Obligor           Type of Business   Loan            Equity      Total
1964/66    Emp. de Curtidos
Centroamericana
S.A (ECCASA)            Tannery          0.30           0.08        0.38
1969/70    Cia. Pino Celulosa
de Centroamerica
(COPINO)                 Pulp and Paper  -               0.07        0.07
1977/78    Textiles Rio Lindo,        Textiles         9.00           1.00       10.00
S.A. de C.V.
Total gross commitments                    9.30           1.15       10.45
less cancellations,
termination, repayments
and sales                                6.30           0.15        6.45
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                   3.00           1.00        4.00
Total undisbursed                          3.00           1.00        4.00



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 841       Fifth Power Project:  US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
About 90 percent of the project has been completed with the
installation of the La Ceiba diesels, the interconnection
to Nicaragua and other project works and studies. Its full
completion will be delayed by about 3 years beyond the original
estimate, resulting from the slow preparation of an expanded
load dispatch and communication system for control of energy
transfers with Nicaragua and from the addition of a geothermal
resource study. Project costs have increased by 14.3 percent
(about US$2.3 million) and will be financed by a loan from the
OPEC Special Fund and internal cash generation of the Borrower.
Ln. 896       Sixth Highway Project:  US$18.8 million Loan of May, 30, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project's main objectives have been achieved. The
construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road, the main project
component, has been completed. The Comayagua-La Libertad Road,
80 Km of feeder roads, and technical and economic studies for
430 Km of feeder roads have also been finished. Preparation of
engineering studies of rural roads has delayed completion of
project works about one and one-half years beyond the original
schedule.
Cr. 434       Second Livestock Project:  US$6.6 million Credit of October 29,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Government has largely achieved the objectives of this
project. All funds have been committed. However, difficulties
in implementation of two major sub-loans (Isletas agrarian
reform banana plantation and the Tegucigalpa abattoir) are
delaying final disbursements.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 954       First Education Project:  US$3.0 million Loan and US$3.0 million
Cr. 452      Credit, both of January 9, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
April 8, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Implementation of this project is proceeding in a satisfactory
manner. The agricultural training centers are completed and
courses for small farmers and their wives will begin in early
1979. The construction of the extension to the agricultural
school at Catacamas and of INFOP's vocational training centers
at San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa should be completed shortly.
All teacher training facilities are in operation, except one
teacher training school and three related primary application
schools which should be completed by the closing date or soon
thereafter. Funds for technical assistance and fellowships
have not been completely used, due to delays in selecting and
approving candidates, but efforts are being made to accelerate
commitment of these funds.
Ln. 1081       Sixth Power Project:  US$35.0 million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The Rio Lindo Power Plant extension was completed about
2 months ahead of schedule. All river diversion works have
been finished albeit with some delays. The project is ex-
pected to be completed at slightly above appraisal cost
estimates but two years later than originally forecast
because of the addition, with Bank approval, of new rural
electrification works.
Cr. 628      First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$14.0 Million Credit
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 15, 1981.
This credit, which includes funds for agrarian reform settle-
ments as well as for individual farmers, is proceeding satis-
factorily. As of June 30, 1978, some 45 subloans valued at
US$4.0 million had been granted. Commitments of about US$3.5
million have been made for the provision of technical services
under agreements with the National Agrarian Institute and the
Pan American Agricultural School.



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 1341/    Seventh Highway Project:  US$35.0 million Loan (including
1342      US$7.0 million on Third Window Terms) of December 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 16, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The three major
construction contracts have been awarded and work begun,
and contracts have been awarded for the purchase of mainte-
nance equipment. Preparation of the Highway Master Plan
is complete; consultants in maintenance operations have
been retained.
Ln. 1395/    Third Port Project:  US$12.0 million Loan (including US$5.0
1396     million on Third Window Terms) and US$5.0 Credit, both of
Cr. 696      April 22, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
December 22, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan finances the construction of Puerto Castilla on the
North Coast and the expansion of San Lorenzo in the south.
The civil works contract for Puerto Castilla has been awarded;
the extension of the pier at San Lorenzo is nearing completion.
Cr. 777      Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million credit of April 6,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The Government recently satisfied the conditions for
effectiveness and is beginning to carry out the project.
Ln. 1576     Guayape Regional Development Project:  US$10.5 million Loan of
June 16, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 18, 1978;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The Government has just completed fulfillment of the conditions
of effectiveness.
Ln. 1629     Nispero Power Project:  US$30.5 million Loan of November 14, 1978;
Terminal Date for Effectiveness: March 5, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The National Electrical Energy Company is expected to meet the
conditions of effectiveness shortly.



- 30 -                     ANNEX III
HONDURAS
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         June, 1977 -
May, 1978
(b)  Agency which prepared project:         Central Bank of Honduras with
Bank assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:        May, 1977
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:        May 1978
(e)  Completion of negotiations:            December 14, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         April 30, 1979
Sectin III: Special Bank Implementation
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) COHDEFOR would participate in the project through a new Forestry
Industries Financing Fund and a project unit operating under a
statement of policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 59);
(b) CDI would engage consultants for improvement of its operations
(para. 60);
(c) FONDEI would finance up to 65 percent of costs for new industrial
projects, up to 75 percent for forestry projects, and up to 80
percent for expansion and modernization activities (para. 53) at
interest rates of 7-8 percent for small enterprises and 9 percent
for others (para. 54). Financial intermediaries would charge
subborrowers no more than 12 percent interest on FONDEI funds
(para. 54). The adequacy of the proposed relending rates would be
reviewed starting not later than April 30, 1980 and, if necessary
in light of the review, revised by BCH and the Bank (para 55);
(d) Central Bank would provide US$5 million equivalent to FONDEI as
paid-in capital (para. 50);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
(e) Proceeds of the loan would be divided so as to (i) reserve
US$6 million for COHDEFOR (para. 59) and at least US$2.5 million for
small industry projects (para. 52); (ii) limit any participating
intermediary other than COHDEFOR to US$2.5 million of these proceeds
excluding small industry projects (para. 57); and (iii) limit any
single beneficiary to US$750,000 and any single COHDEFOR-sponsored
project to US$1.5 million (para. 52). All subloans over US$250,000
are subject to prior Bank approval, and the first 10 small industry
subloans would be reviewed by the Bank (para. 58);
(f) Conditions of effectiveness for the loan would be that: (i) project
appraisal and supervision guidelines satisfactory to the Bank are
approved by FONDEI (para. 58); (ii) a project evaluation training
program for FONDEI and other participating intermediaries has
been initiated (para. 58); (iii) the BCH has paid in a US$2.5
million equivalent capital contribution to FONDEI (para. 50); CDI
has made arrangements for consultants for improving its operations
(para. 60); (v) COHDEFOR and at least three other intermediaries
have signed agreements satisfactory to the Bank to participate in
the project (para. 57); and (vi) BCH has appointed FONDEI's initial
staff (para. 48);
(g) It would be a condition of disbursement under the Loan Agreement
for the US$6 million allocation of funds for COHDEFOR, that COHDEFOR's
project unit and fund are established with operating policies of
the fund acceptable to the Bank (para. 59);
(h) It would be a condition of loan signing that a qualified director
had been appointed to head FONDEI (para. 48).






0  0                       0
0.                                 14'
)                          N
Re {r     -"
0
4'    >
P                           6
,08\              ,,,     /
'-                              00                                             -
S       '   '>         WA>                    p
-                       >
lj         /                                      &                   P        0>
o               0                                N                  0
4    r    ?>
\ K      oo...                      0,  800 N  
C                  0
(                              3z   -480                       0
                  0
0    00
ON  8  -                                          10
*              to
  A                   '           2--4       8            a
Cl
8                         8
tr \79'3z\    >    10             8                               -         P
8'       8             /    1
--I                               vLj                  0
00
-v         roYnj       *..*  97;    o                  V                          8
1<
OR
I     ,                                                          0
               1
/1
01 
C    -            N
O   C   -"C>
ft                   0   /      N,
CA                               -  N>                              tI       if
"N _____    /
8                                                            C.            tt
j                       /
>1    C'
I:1IIIIIIi-                                                                  '5
U.
Ii?lIIIIIIIIi                                               -'Co    $7"'
30202        88 iiI801c28          -         0               C.            4
    AK                           8rjT                         if
Op *>>&80    K'L  o'                                  0   _
CO              'NJ
"                                                     On  -(       /
> >79.
RI                                   C
        _              -          '9   /         
 ON oJ
0      10g'
C>   >   R                    8
01                 000
8   1         -            -                                 0'
'Na';
if      3      $7
0                                                                                                     w
-4                                                                                                    0
,>23
0'                                                                         1010
1     '0



