Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5155
PROGRAM PERFa 'ANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSIMENr LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
June 25, 1984
Operations Evaluation Departu-ent
This document has a restricted disbributio  and may be used by recipints ouly in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed witbout World  Dank authorization. 



FOE OICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Basic Data Sheet ......... ......................                          i
Highlights ........................................................    iii
PROGRAM PERFORNANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.   BACKGROUND   -........................................*...        1
II.   STABILIZATION .......................... . ............           4
III.   THE SAL PROGRAM ..........................*..............         6
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION UNDER SAL ... .............................        8
A.  Economic Stabilization ..............................        8
B.  The Exchange Rate ........................... . . ......    10
C. Mining Tax Reform ...................................        11
D.  Encouraging Agricultural Exports ....................       12
E.  Public Investment and Financing .o...................       13
F. Loan Disbursement and Procurement ...................        14
G.  Debt Monitoring and Control .......* ..................     15
H.  The Technical Assistance Component         ..................  16
I. The Bank"s Lending Program ..... .....................       18
J. Timing of Mid-Term Review ... .... .. ..................     19
V.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS .................................        22
Annexes
1.   Stao.-istical Tables ...................................................  24
2.   List of Studies Completed under
the Technical Assistance Component       ....................  34
3.   Letter on Development Policies        ..........................  35
Thisdownint hu a nsuicWddOuDton andmay be usedby dpontsoWyin the pufonnmwc of
tdeirotidd dSiL Its cotents may nototherwis be dosed withoutWofd Bank authorizat.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Contiuned)
Page No.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary ...*******.***.......................    41
Economic Background ..... ...... .. ...............    41
The Structural Adjustment Program       ......................    42
Implementation of the Program       ..........................    43
Content of the Program ..................................    44
Macro-economic Effects cf the SAL Program  . .............    46
Technical Assistance Under the Program .................    48
Conclusions .*****      ..................................  49
Attachments:
1.  Letter on Development Policies       ........................  51
2.  Loan Disbursements and Procurement ....................      56



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
PREFACE
This performance audit report relates to Bank Loan 1865-BO of 1980
for US$50 million. The loan supported a mediuar-term program of structural
adjustment which for all practical purposes was aborted shortly after its
inception. This operation was to become - up to the time of writing - the
last lending operation by the Bank in Bolivia, with a hiatus in lending
extending over more than three years.l/ Loan 1865-BO, which was originally
conceived as a program loan, was approved by the Board of Executive Directors
on June 5, signed with the Borrower two weeks later and became effective on
June 25, 1980. The loan proceeds were to provide quickly available funds in
support of the balance of payments, but US$1.3 million of the total was
earmarked for technical assistance to cover studies aimed at guiding policy
changes, particularly in agriculture and mining.   The bulk of the loan
(US$48.7 million) was released in two tranches, the first amounting to US$25
million in July, and the remainder in November 1980. It took time to design,
draw terms of reference for and implement the technical assistance component
which was later merged into a UNDP technical assistance project for a
comprehensive study of the Corporacion Minera de Bolivia (COMIBOL) for which
study the Bank acted as the executing agency. The research was completed at
various dates in 1980 and 1981, and the funds for this component were fully
disbursed by eud-1981, the closing date having been amended in July 1981 from
June 30, 1981 to Narch 31, 1982.
This Program Performance Audit Report (PPAR) is made up of two
parts:  (a) a Program Performance Audit Memorandum (PPAM) prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and, (b) a Frogram Completion Report
(PCR) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. The
PCR, dated June 30, 1983, is on the whole comprehensive and candid. An OED
mission visited Bolivia in November 1983 and held discussions with many
individuals, including officials of the Central Bank, the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Planning and Coordination, the Ministry of Industry,
Commerce and Tourism, the National Institute of Statistics, the World Bank
Resident Mission, the IMF Resident Mission and others in the private sector.
Besides, discussions were held with Bank staff associated with this operation
as well as with IMF staff. All concerned have been helpful and cooperative.
The PPAM is based on the PCR, the President's Report, various economic
reports by both the Bank and the Fund, memoranda on file and the discussions
mentioned above. No comments were received from the Borrower.
1/   There was, however, an advance of US$1 million in 1982 out of the
Project Preparation Facility to cover feasibility studies relating to a
prospective gas project.



- ii -
PROGRAM PERFORNANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMNT LOAN DATA
(amounts in US$ million)
As of July 31, 1983
Original  Disbursed  Cancelled  Repaid  Outstanding
Loan 1865-BO           50.0        50.0         0         0         50.0
Original Loan Dates Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum                    n.a.                n.a.
Letter of Development Policies            -                04/01/80
Negotiations                            04/80           04/25-04/28/80
Board Approval                          05/80              06/05/80
Loan Agreement                          06/80              06/18/80
Effectiveness                           06/80              06/25/80
Loan Closing                           06/30/81            03/31/82
Actual Completion                      06/30/81            12/31/82
CUULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMT
FY81         FY82
(i) Planned               50.0         50.0
(ii) Actual                48.7         50.0
(iii)  ii as Z of i         97.4        100.0
MISSION D&TA
Month/    No. of    No. of                  Date of
Year     Weeks      Persons    Manleeks   Report
Preparation           10/79      n.a.        n.a.       13.2
Appraisal           10-11179      3          n.a.       14.1      03/21/80
Post-Appraisal        02/80       2           2          0.6      04/29/80
Supervision I         08/80       2          2          17.5      09/19/80
Completion             n.a.      n.a.        n.a.        2.3        06/83
FOLLOW-ON SAL OPERATIONS
None



- iii -
PROGRAM PERFORKMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
HIGHLIGHTS
This SAL was advanced at a time when structural adjustment was
needed, and the package of reforms under the loan seems to have been well
chosen to address the main weaknesses and lacunae in the Bolivian economy in
the late seventies. The medium term structural adjustment process was built
on a shorter-term stabilization program, developed in conjunction with the
International Monetary Fund, but which, in the event, faltered. Although the
international environment has not been very favorable to the liberalization
drive embodied in the SAL program, the failure of the latter is largely due
to the fact that many of its elements were not implemented. The main thrust
of the program, namely the promotion of exports through an adjustable
exchange rate, was dissipated as inflation raged and the exchange rate failed
to change in order to attain export competitiveness (PPAM, paras. 25-27).
Lack of progress was also evident in controlling the public sector's
financial deficit (PPAM, para. 21) and in monitoring and rationalizing
investments (PPAM, paras 33-35). In practically all these areas the reforms
have been as slow as they have been slight. Some progress was made, however,
in implementing the technical assistance program (PPAM paras. 42-44) which
has provided various insights for economic policy changes, and in recording
external debt (PPAM, para. 38). On the whole, as the PCR states, the loan
cannot be judged a success (PCR, para. 29).  Not only was the program not
implemented, but its impact, if any, has been negligible.
Much of the blame for this failure must be put on the frequent
change of government since 1980, as political instability made it impossible
to pursue longer-term programs and in some cases, such as the strengthening
of the monitoring capability at the Ministry of Planning and Coordination,
there were reverses after certain steps forward. It Is to the credit of the
President's Report that the political risk surrounding the implementation of
the SAL was highlighted beforehand.   In order to circumvent this risk, the
loan was deliberately tranched, and the Board was assured that a careful
review would be carried out in mid-term before the second tranche was
released. But the Bank did not avail itself of the opportunity to delay the
mid-term review until the new government (which assumed power in August 1980)
got established and some record of progress under the loan became evident.
This opportunity had been written into the Loan Agreement itself (PPAM,
para. 48).  Instead, the Bank opted to establish an early policy dialogue
with the new authorities to ensure that the reform program would be kept in
place. The second tranche was released after the government had endorsed the
letter on development policies and taken the actions recommended by the
review mission. In releasing the second tranche, however, it seems that the
political risk of maintaining the program, which had been correctly stressed
at appraisal, was underestimated by Bank staff.



- iv -
It is significant that no further loans have been made by the Bank
to Bolivia since the SAL loan in mid-1980 (PPAM, paras. 45-46) - this in
itself indicating the unusual environment prevailing in Bolivia-Bank rela-
tions. A SAL operation presupposes a continuing dialogue and a long-term
relationship between Borrower and Bank where macro-economic adjustment goes
hand in hand with a carefully designed pattern of Bank-supported projects.



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
I. BACKGROUND
1.        The Bolivian economy has certain structural features which need to
be stressed at the outset of this exercise.  First, it is an economy domi-
nated by primary activity, mainly mineral extraction (tin, silver, lead,
copper, bismuth, antimony, wolfram, zinc as well as petroleum) and subsis-
tence agriculture. Secondly, the share of the public sector in the economy
is large or dominant in the mineral activity, in total investment (normally),
and in exports which are very largely minerals.   Thirdly, much of agri-
cultural production is carried out on poor soil under uncertain rains, with
marketing and access to inputs hampered by the difficult terrain and under-
developed roads and almost a complete absence of institutional support.
Fourthly, the economy is open to the outside world through many unofficial
channels, including large contraband trade flows, the extent of which cannot
be ascertained, this coupled with a proclivity of the authorities towards
declaring official prices for many products which are unable to equilibrate
the market with a tendency for parallel prices to prevail.   The foreign
exchange market is a significant representative of such a market.   In
addition to these characteristics, political instability has limited the
ability of governments to pursue and sustain economic objectives over any
length of time.  Since the signing of the loan agreement for SAL in June
1980, there have been four governments, both military and civilian, with the
latter often in the form of coalitions that tend to lose cohesion when
difficult economic options are faced.
2.        Bolivia is one of the poorest countries in Latin America, GNP per
capita being around $600 (1981). The population was estimated at 5.6 million
in 1980 growing at 2.8 per cent a year. The labor force, amounting to some
1.7 million, contains large elements of underemployed labor in agriculture
and services as well as other activities. Of the employed labor roughly 54
per cent is in agriculture, 5 per cent in mining and 9 per cent in
manufacturing.I/  The country remained thoroughly underdeveloped (save for
the mineral sector which was not integrated with the domestic economy) until
the revolution of 1952.   The agrarian reforms and nationalization of the
1/   The source for these data is the World Bank, Bolivia:   Structural
Constraints and Development Prospects, (Report No. 4194-BO) January 12,
1983, Statistical Annex.



- 2 -
larger mines in the early fifties led to a decline in economic activity until
about 1958 when the economy began to grow, averaging about 5 per cent a year
until the eve of the SAL.2/
3.        During the Sixties Bolivia's proceeds from exports (virtually all
minerals and three-quarters of which by value were tin) had grown from about
$50 million a year to a little under $200 million, on account of increasing
volume as well as prices - each roughly doubling during the decade. Early in
that period, exports of crude petroleum were of the order of 5 per cent of
total exports by value, but grew steadily in the late sixties as a result of
great expansions in output. In 1972 petroleum exports brought in US$49 mil-
lion or 19 per cent of export proceeds, but two years later after the 1973/74
oil price increase they fetched US$161 million in one year, and tin exports
had almost doubled in reaction to a more than doubling of price so that total
exports in 1974 were valued at US$556.4 million. From then on, however, as a
result of stagnation in output and soaring domestic consumption, the crude
petroleum exportable surplus declined, and even after the 1979/80 surge in
prices, accounted for only 2 per cent of exports in 1980. However, natural
gas exports (to Argentina), first appearing in 1972, grew steadily after-
wards, became equal in value to crude petroleum exports about 1977, and by
1980 provided 23 per cent of total export proceeds.   In 1982 exports of
natural gas were valued at $382 million and accounted for 46 per cent of all
merchandise exports (see Table 8 in Annex I below).
4.        Bolivia's gross terms of trade improved by 65 per cent between 1973
and 1980, but the quantum index of exports advanced very little in this
period. Improved export earnings enabled Bolivia to finance a growing volume
of imports which roughly doubled in real terms between the first half and the
second half of the seventies. Several repercussions and policy actions were
to follow.
5.        First, as the bulk of minerals are extracted in the public sector,
the latter's share in the economy was to expand roughly from a quarter to
about 30 per cent during the seventies.   Second, as the terms of trade
improved, Bolivia's creditworthiness for international commercial borrowing
vastly improved, and this resulted in a great increase in international
borrowing simultaneously with the decline of concessional capital inflows.
Foreign borrowing helped to finance a massive investment effort part of which
was of dubious economic worth. Third, as often happens, windfall affluence
led to financial laxity in balancing the national budget and external
payments, and the current account deficit grew from a negligible proportion
of GDP before 1975 to 6 per cent in 1975, and 8 per cent in 1978./1 It did
2/ Apparently per capita income did not recover to its 1952 level until
1970 (World Bank, President's Report, Report No. P-2811 dated May 12,
1980, para. 3).
3/   Bolivia:   Structural Constraints and Development Prospects, op. cit.
para 6.



not help that the Government sought low administered prices for consumer
goods, including petroleum products, and higher minimum wages and salaries.
Such policies dulled the incentives to produce as well as encouraged
consumption both in the public and private sectors.
6.        The higher inflow  of international  capital  in  the  seventies,
coupled with the gains from the terms of trade, gave the wrong signals also
about the peso exchange rate which remained constant in nominal terms (at 20
pesos per US$) from 1972 to 1979 despite a high incidence of inflation which
caused the consumer price index to more than triple in the same period.4/
The real appreciation of the exchange rate that resulted was to discourage
job creation by cheapening (imported) capital relative to labor, and to work
as a strong disincentive to exporters whose peso proceeds from exports were
also diminished by higher wages and, in the mineral sector, an antiquated
method of reckoning the tax base. The public corporations in mineral extrac-
tion and processing, petroleum, power and transport became extended with
redundant labor and unable or unwilling to shed it, suffered from low prices
for their products and were unable in most cases to finance fully their
investment programs without resort to borrowing.   As in many developing
countries the public enterprises were used to promote social objectives to
the detriment of their economic efficiency.
7.        Flow-of-funds analysis covering the second half of the seventies
indicates a drastic reduction in domestic saving rates from about 25 per cent
of GDP in 1975 to 9 per cent in 1979, with both the public and private
savings eroding and the former turning negative.   By  1979,  therefore,
domestic consumption had become 91 per cent of GDP.   Investment, while
remaining considerably above domestic savings, also declined from 19.2 per
cent of GDP to 17.6 per cent over the same period. The gap between saving
and investment in 1979 had grown to 8.6 per cent of GDP.5/
8.        The trade balance, in surplus in 1974 to the tune of US$190.3
million, turned into deficit which, by 1979, had reached US$201.5 million.
The current account surplus of US$146.8 million also became a deficit of
US$383.4 million over the same period.   The foreign debt increased from
US$0.8 billion in 1975 to US$1.7 billion in 1978.6/   By end-1979,  the
external debt of the public sector, including most short-term liabilities,
4/   See annual inflation rates in Statistical Table No. 5, Annex I.
5/   The flow of fund estimates for Bolivia, though available, should be
taken as approximations only and they are frequently being revised. See
IMF, Bolivia - Recent Economic Developments (SX/82/162, August 9, 1982)
Table 8 and Bolivia - Request for Stand-by Arrangement (EBS/80/17E,
January 22, 1980), Table 1.
6/   World Bank, Bolivia:  Structural Constraints and Development Prospects,
op. cit., para. 10.



had  exceeded US$2  billion.7/   This gave rise to expanding payments of
service interest, which grew from 5 per cent of exports in 1974 to 19.3 per
cent in 1979 under the impact of rising interest rates, shorter maturities
and expiry of grace periods.8/
II. STABILIZATION
9.        In 1978 a caretaker civilian government replaced  the military
government a.ad in the following year initiated a program of reforms seeking
to restore internal and external balance and the confidence of foreign
lenders.   The program was in two phases, a short-term stabilization phase
covering 1980, specifically designed to earn IMF support for a stand-by
arrangement, and a medium-term phase which, though also outlined to the INF,
was more geared to attract World Bank support for a Structural Adjustment
loan. The program worked out with the Fund was to become an integral part of
the SAL program. It3 objectives are outlined in the "Memorandum of Economic
Policy" attached to the letter dated December 26, 1979 from the Finance
Minister to the Managing Director of the IMF in the following quantitative
terms:9/
-The major objectives of the program for the period 1980-83 are a
reduction of the current account balance of payments deficit from
the present level of about 10-1/2 per cent of GDP to about 5 per
cent of GDP, and to accelerate real economic growth from the
present annual rate of less than 3 per cent to the range of 4-1/2
per cent to 5 per cent by the end of the four-year adjustment
period.   These objectives could be achieved by raising domestic
investment to the range of 21-22 per cent of GDP and domestic
savings to the range of 16-17 per cent of GDP, both levels that
were reached in the early 1970s. With the pursuit of appropriate
7/   See  Statistical  Table No.  9.    External  debt  is  here defined as
outstanding and disbursed public and publicly guaranteed debt repayable
in foreign and local currency, excluding short-term debt of the
financial sector.
8/   See IMF, Bolivia - Recent Economic Developments, op. cit., Appendix II,
p. 58. Including amortization, total debt service was about 37 per cent
of   exports   of   goods   and   non-factor   services   in   1979.
9/   See Annex I to Attachment II  (Annex to Stand-By Arrangement)  IMF,
Bolivia - Request for Stand-by Agreement (EBS/80/17E) dated January 21,
1980. At the time Bolivia also requested a Trust Fund Loan (which was
granted) and was aiming at obtaining IMF support for an Expanded Fund
Facility in support of a program covering 1981-83, but this was not to
be.



- 5 -
domestic policy and of a rational balance of payments management,
Bolivia should be able to attract net foreign capital inflows from
abroad of the order of 5 per cent of CDP on a reasonably steady
basis, while the overall balance of payments would be brought into
equilibrium by 1982."
10.       The 1980 stabilization program aimed at realizing a substantial
reduction in the overall balance of payments deficit in that year, and
establishing the basis for sustained economic growth in the period ahead. To
achieve these objectives, in the words of the same document,
"(a) a viable exchange rate will be maintained; (b) the overall
public sector deficit will be reduced; (c) the public investment
program will be rationalized; (d) public sector rates and prices
will be revised so as to reach realistic levels; (e) monetary
policy will be consistent with the balance of payments target; and
(f) the external debt operations of the public sector and the
banking system will be controlled."
11.       On November 30, 1979 the fixed relationship that had existed since
1972 between the peso and the US dollar was abandoned. The peso was devalued
from US$-$b20 to US$-$b24.51 (buying) and $b24.53 (selling).  This devalua-
tion was accompanied by a decision to operate a floating rate, managed by the
Central Bank.  The understanding was that the level of the float would be
adjusted in line with movements in Bolivia's net official lnternatlonal
reserves and changes in the relationship between domestic and foreign
prices.  Thus reliance would be heavy on the exchange rate to correct the
balance of payments disequilibrium. This decision was not Implemented, the
new rates remaining unchanged until February 1982. Other instruments for the
short-term adjustment included demand management measures, and limits on
assumption of external and internal debt.   The main performance criteria
established under the Stand-by were:
(a) ceilings on the net domestic assets of the Central Bank;
(b) ceilings on the banking system's net claims on the non-financial
public sector;
(c) cumulative quarterly targets for the Central Bank's net inter-
national reserves;
(d) cumulative quarterly limits on external debt operations of the pub-
lic sector; and
(e) a limit on the external indebtedness of private banks with a
maturity of up to three years.
12.       This program was approved by the IMF on February 1, 1980 and the
amount of SDR 66.375 million (equivalent to about US$86.3 million) was made
available to Bolivia in tranches, the release of the tranches being contin-



- 6 -
gent on the observance of the performance criteria.10/   The first three
tranches were released, respectively in March, June and August 1980, but the
fourth was denied as the limits and ceilings agreed upon were not observed.
III. THE SAL PROGRAM
13.       In the Letter on Development Policies addressed to the Bank (April
1, 1980; see Annex 3)the new Finance Minister (different from the one who had
signed the IMF letter) reiterated the adjustment program already communicated
to the IMF: short term domestic and external imbalances would be removed,
and the major structural problems which had affected the country's economic
growth would be reduced or eliminated in an attempt to seek economic
recovery.  The main components of the program as described in this letter
were three:
(a) the economic and financial stabilization measures agreed with the
IMF;
(b) specific measures for export promotion; and
(c) a public investment and financing program.
The letter described steps already taken and others yet to be taken under all
three components. Apart from (a) which has already been covered, the export
promotion and public investment programs were outlined as follows.
Specific Measures for Export Promotion
14.       Poor export performance was blamed on an over-valued exchange rate,
faulty pricing of hydrocarbons and agricultural products, lack of specific
incentives for agricultural exports and an inappropriate structure of mineral
taxation. The government stressed its intention to -reverse this tendency"
and pursue policies that would foster the development of exports which were
targetted to grow 'at about 6% per annum in real terms over the period 1980-
85", and to reduce the heavy reliance on exports of tin from over 50X of
merchandise exports in 1979 to about 33% by 1985.
15.       In order to promote exports the government was determined to reform
the structure of mineral taxation - minerals being the source of the bulk of
export proceeds. Already a mineral tax reform had been initiated, including
the elimination of the export tax, the updat'.ng of presumed costs and
10/ The tranches (in million SDRs) were determined at 26.375 until April 30;
14 until July 31; 13 until October 31 and 13 until end-1980.



establishing an adjustment factor for presumed costs linked to the floor
price of the International Tin Council.II1 The government acknowledged the
need for further reform aimed at increasing investment and production in the
mineral sector.
16.       Agricultural prices had been too depressed for the creation of
export surpluses.   Farm-gate prices had been increased for beef, dairy
products and poultry, and the process would continue for coffee, with the
gradual introduction of quality price differentials for both coffee and beef.
17.       Already there was a program supported by the World Bank to  ascer-
tain the magnitude of the gas reserves- and once sufficient reserves were
located, preparation would start on a gas pipeliLne for export to Brazil and
other countries.
Public Investment and Financing Program
18.       The other major area covered under SAL concerned public investment
and its financing with the view of controlling and rationalizing the invest-
ments, and increasing resource mobilization so that the public sector deficit
was reduced.   The idea was not so much to reduce the level of investment
(though this was probably inevitable at the initial stage of the adjustment
program  to  achieve  the  short-term  equilibrium  often  described  as
stabilization) as to rationalize its composition, with emphasis on projects
yielding quick returns and those contributing directly to the promotion of
exports and eventually raising the share of investment in GDP in the interest
of promoting growth.12/ The Finance Minister's letter expressed government
intention to give priority to productive projects in agriculture, mining,
manufacturing and hydrocarbons, particularly to projects with export
orientation.   The government undertook  to maintain essential levels of
investment in social infrastructure and transport as needed, but overall
public investment would be tailored to the availability of financing,
including foreign financing.  Net domestic borrowing by the public sector
would be set at levels consistent with the stabilization program.   To
increase public savings the prices charged by public enterprises would be
raised. -Our policy is to set public sector tariffs at levels that allow
enterprises to earn reasonable rates of return and that ensure a significant
proportion of self financing for investment." Since ENDE (the National Power
Corporation) would be embarking on a large investment program, power tariffs,
11/ Instead of basing the tax on actual profits, the tax had been based on a
theoretical surplus based on presumed costs and the export price and
this resulted in grave over-taxation.
12/ As mentioned earlier (para. 9), the Memorandum of Economic Policy
addressed to the Managing Director of the IMF on December 26, 1979 spoke
of raising domestic investment to the range of 21-22 per cent of GDP by
the end of the 1980-83 period.



-8-
already recently increased by 30 per cent, would again have to be raised
significantly. Hydrocarbon prices would also be increased 'in order to bring
the domestic prices closer to international prices' (para. 11). Control over
public enterprises would be increased to ensure that programmed investments
would not be exceeded and, for that purpose, the etaff of the Ministry of
Planning and Coordination would be strengthened.  The Central Bank would
exercise control over external borrowing, including loans of a maturity
shorter than a year.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION UNDER SAL
A.   Economic Stabilization
19.       Bolivia initiated a series of short-term economic measures which
formed the basis of its stabilization program with the IMF. The thrust of
the program was to restore short-term economic balance largely through demand
management measures, with the aim of reducing the fiscal and balance of
payments deficits.  Changes were introduced in three areas:   (a) the peso
exchange rate, having remained constant for eight years, was devalued in late
1979, and in view of a tendency to inflation would be further adjusted to
maintain export competitiveness; (b) the prices of public sector enterprises,
notably of petroleum products, were raised and would be adjusted periodically
in an effort to contain demand and create exportable surpluses, reduce
deficits and help finance investment; and (c) monetary reforms were
initiated, including elimination of dollar-denominated peso deposits, and
restructuring interest rates and legal reserve requirements, with the view to
increasing savings.   Related measures covered the renegotiation of public
commercial debt, controlling public sector borrowing and meeting targets for
international reserves.
20.      As the PCR has noted (para. 16) most of the elements of the stabi-
lization program were already in place by the time the SAL was made in mid-
1980, and the various ceilings/targets agreed with the IMF were observed
until the third quarter of 1980, but the stand-by arrangement broke down
later.   The factors behind the failure of the stabilization program are
stated in the PCR, para. 13.  The military government, which had come to
power in July 1980, blocked the way against the newly elected government and
responded harshly to internal dissent. Unrest in the mines led to reduced
output, and tax revenues and export proceeds dropped in the second half of
1980. The public sector deficit widened, despite a drastic reduction in pub-
lic investment. Resort was made to expanded central bank credit to finance
the rising current expenditure, including extraordinary military purchases.
"By September 30, the Garcia Meza Government was no longer in Compliance with
ceilings on net domestic borrowing...." (PCR, para. 13).



-9-
21.       In terms of actual results 1980 showed mixed performance.  A few
key indicators are shown in the Table below.
Table 1. Summary Economic Indicators 1979 and 1980
1979    1980
Rate of Inflation (GDP deflator) Z                            18.2    45.8
GDP Growth (Z at constant prices)                              1.8      0.6
Domestic Investment (Z of GDP)                                17.6    12.9
Savings/Investment Gap (Zof GDP)                               8.6      2.6
Public Sector Savings (Z of GDP)                               1.5    -2.0
Public Sector Capital Expenditure (Z of GDP)                  10.0      6.4
Treasury Current Revenue (million $b, current prices)          8,359   11,076
Treasury Current Expenditure (million $b, current prices)     10,411   14,535
Treasury Current Account Deficit (million $b, current prices)  2,052   3,459
Treasury Current Account Deficit (as % of GDP)                 2.4      4.2
Merchandise Exports FOB (million US$)                            762    942
Merchandise Imports CIF (million US$)                          1,008    834
Balance on Current and Transfer Account (million US$)            388    142
Source: Statistical Annex and IMF Reports.
As the above data show, inflation accelerated as the tempo of the real
economy slowed down. The public sector's contribution to domestic savings
became negative, but, owing largely to a drastic reduction in aggregate
domestic investment, the savings investment gap narrowed.  The accounts of
the Treasury show a rise in current expenditure in 1980 in excess of the rise
in current revenue. In real terms, however, they both declined, but the dec-
line in revenue was much more pronounced than the decline in expenditure.
The State Mineral Corporation, COHIBOL, had a deficit on its current
operations and, despite reduced investment, its overall deficit was 9 per
cent of its current revenues. The other major public enterprise, the State
Petroleum Corporation, YPFB, realized a small surplus which covered its
capital formation - thanks to the increase in petroleum prices.
22.       The decline of activity affected also the private sector whose
investment relative to GDP further declined.  Real interest rates became
strongly negative and have remained negative since.  The current account
deficit of the balance of payments had nar-owed largely on account of severe
curtailment of imports. This deprived many activities of needed inputs and
added to the inflationary pressures.    GDP grew  only by 0.6 per cent,
representing a decline in GDP per capita of about 2 per cer . In 1980 mining
production (including petroleum and natural gas) declined by 2.6 per cent,
and manufacturing and construction by 1.8 per cent. The inflow of foreign
capital fell, despite debt rescheduling, and the overall capital account was



- 10 -
in deficit, which caused the Central Bank's net international reserves to
fall by US$134 million (see Table 7 in Annex 1).
B. The Exchange Rate
23.       A cornerstone of the adjustment program was the attempt to render
exports competitive mainly through the adoption of 'realistic' exchange
rates. Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement specifically mentioned as a vital
component of the program -maintaining an appropriate relation between
domestic and external prices so as to ensure the competitiveness of Bolivian
exports.- Bolivia, by virtue of its small size, could not influence world
prices for the various primary products it exported, and devaluing the peso
could only affect the supply side of exports by offering higher peso prices
to the exporters. Implicit in the design of the program, therefore, was that
such suppliers' response to higher prices would be positive and perceptible -
a reasonable enough assumption though one that had not been previously
tested.
24.       Another objective sought through the depreciation of the peso was
to cause imports of capital goods to become more expensive relative to labor
so that new investment would create greater job opportunities through
substitution of labor for capital.   Failure to adjust the exchange rate,
coupled with severe import shortages and drastic declines in domestic
investments were also to hamper the adjustment sought through the deprecia-
tion of the excbange rate. As mentioned earlier, the exchange rate had not
been changed since 1972, but the peso was devalued from 20 to about 25 per US
dollar on November 30, 1979,13/ and the President's Report had stated that
'further adjustments would be made to ensure the maintenance of Bolivia's
export competitiveness- (para. 11).
25.       Such adjustments were slow to materialize and the exchange rate
remained unchanged from November 1979 to March 22, 1982 when the -illegal,
but tolerated, parallel exchange market' had reportedly reached $b115 per
US$1 (IMF, Bolivia - Recent Economic Developments, SM/82/162, Appendix I, p.
36). The new exchange rate was set at $b44 to the US$1, and a dual foreign
exchange market was allowed to function, with a free market that registered a
rate of $b160 per US$1 on July 15, 1982 (ibid.). On November 6, 1982 the
dual market was abolished and the peso was again devalued to $b196 per US$1,
but once more a parallel market developed and the spread between the parallel
and official rates widened gradually until it exceeded $bl,000 per US$1 in
late 1983 (see Table 6 in Annex 1).
26.       Although the "free" or "parallel" rates could not be taken as
representing equilibrium rates, in that they represented market forces in
only a part of the market and were influenced also by speculation, they indi-
cated by the widening spread between them and the official rate that the
13/ The devaluation of the peso from $b20 to $b24.51 per US$ works out to a
devaluation of 18.4% and not to 25% as stated in the PCR, para. 8.



- 11 -
latter was out of step with the objectives of the program, the devaluations
occurring only too late and in too short steps.   Meanwhile inflation, as
measured by the GDP deflator, was mounting (39 per cent in 1980; 30.5 per
cent in 1981; 165 per cent in 1982 and 240 per cent in 1983 - see Table 5 in
Annex 1).  A rough calculation by IMF staff shows that the real effective
exchange ratel4/ had appreciated by about 5 percent in the first half of
1980 (i.e., between the November 1979 devaluation and the initiation of the
SAL), and appreciated again by another 3 per cent by the end of 1980. A year
later this real effective exchange rate had appreciated again by another 34
per cent.  Despite the March 1982 devaluation, the peso kept appreciating
until the real effective rate was nearly double the rate it had been in
mid-1980. Again, despite a further devaluation in late 1982, the real effec-
tive rate in the third quarter of 1983 was 54 per cent higher than it had
been in mid-1980. This most powerful of instruments to promote exports was
thus never used as intended in the adjustment program.
27.       The PCR glosses over the failure to adjust the exchange-rate as
required, and in para. 14, in reference to the mid-term review mission, it
states that Bolivia had in fact been judged to have complied with the Loan
Agreement condition that export competitiveness be maintained. The apprecia-
tion of the exchange rate, however, coupled with the foreign exchange con-
trols that obliged the exporters to surrender a certain proportion (often the
whole) of their foreign exchange earnings to the Central Bank at the official
rates, in fact acted as a strong disincentive to export and dwarfed any pro-
gress made under the loan to promote exports through reducing the burden of
taxation.
C.   Mining Tax Reform
28.       The SAL program quite rightly included the reform of mining taxa-
tion as another ingredient. The President's Report contained ample justifi-
cation for this, pointing out the importance of the mining sector to Bolivia,
the multiplicity, complexity and rigidity of the various taxes levied on the
sector and stressed the strong disincentives, resulting from taxation of
exports, against expansion and efficient utilization of existing capacity
(paras. 24-26). The steps taken prior to SAL were adequately described in
the President's Report, and these were judged to be expected to go a long
way in encouraging investment and production', but further reforms, the
President's Report added, might be needed, particularly to increase incen-
tives for exploration and development of low grade ores, and to update and
modify the adjustment factor for presumed costs.   The technical assistance
component of SAL (see below, paras. 39-44) included a study of this topic,
14/ Defined as the average nominal exchange rate against the currencies of
its main trading partners, weighted by Bolivia's trade with these
partners, corrected for inflation both within Bolivia and in its trading
partners.



- 12 -
and the results of this study were brought out in the 1983 World Bank
Economic Report on Bolivia and used as a basis for the detailed coverage
given in the PCR (para. 18) of the same subject.   It should be stressed
here - as argued before - that any advance made through reducing taxation on
the mining sector was more than offset by the over-valued exchange rate and
the exchange control system which have acted as strong disincentives to
production and exports.
29.       The impact of the above described developments on exports has not
been very favorable.   As it happened, the value of exports in current US
dollars grew by an average of 5.3 per cent between 1979 and 1982 (preliminary
figures), and the share of tin in total exports (CIF) declined from 46.2 per
cent in 1979 to 30.1 per cent in 1982.   The expansion in volume can be
largely explained by the growth in the exportation of natural gas which more
than offset a drastic reduction in exports in real terms of the metals group
(by 21 per cent) and of other exports by 30.5 per cent. The decline in the
share of tin in total export proceeds derives partly from a decline in the
unit value of tin exports (in current US dollars by 15 per cent) and more
importantly in volume (by 18 per cent), and does not derive from diversifica-
tion of exports as intended. Between 1979 and 1982 the value of non-tradi-
tional exports (mainly sugar, coffee, wood, handicrafts and others) fell in
current US dollars from $115.6 million to $80.4 million (see Table 8 in Annex
I below).  The quantum index of metal exports declined by 3.4 per cent in
1981, 11.9 per cent in 1982 and by a further 12.6 per cent on average during
the first half of 1983 (see Bank of Bolivia, Statistical Bulletin No. 247,
June 1983).
D.   Encouraging Agricultural Exports
30.       The aim of diversifying Bolivia's exports by increased agricultural
exports was also not realized.   The program had sought movement towards
liberalizing farm prices and had stressed the importance of raising farm gate
prices and differentiating in pricing between various qualities in order to
promote production of exportable commodities such as coffee and beef.   In
Bolivia, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry has been in the habit of
declaring prices for many commodities, agricultural as well as non-
agricultural, which have importance for the urban consumers (sugar, flour,
eggs, petroleum products) both at retail and at wholesale. The effectiveness
of these price controls has often been dubious, with black market prices
dominating. For the producers no effective mechanism, supported by institu-
tional arrangements, existed to transmit such prices to the farm gate.
31.       It was probably over-optimistic at the design stage to expect the
government to operate an effective system of support for producers' prices
without a clearly defined mechanism supported by funds and institutional
arrangements including marketing, credit, transport and storage.   The PCR
rightly concludes (para. 15) that any gains obtained by raising agricultural
prices prior to the SAL, had been largely offset by inflation in the course
of 1980, and subsequent price adjustments were similarly short-lived on



- 13 -
account of the continuation of inflationary pressures. "The government also
failed to reform the agricultural credit system so as to improve the flow of
credit to producers" (PCR, para. 19).  As with many other countries faced
with similar problems, the authorities, in the interest of 'political
realism," have tended in their pricing policies to defer to consumer groups,
especially in the urban centers, to the detriment of producers' interests.
E.   Public Investment and Financing
32.       Another major objective of the adjustment prograrA supported by the
loan was
"the maintenance of a realistic public investment and financing
program, geared to productive projects while still maintaining ade-
quate levels of investment in social and transport infrastructure
consistent with the needs of the country" (Loan Agreement Schedule
2).
The short-term aim was the control of public investment as part of the
stabilization objective, but drastically reducing the level of investment can
hardly be part of the mediumr-term adjustment which seeks to restore the
economy to longer-term growth partly through a better saving and investment
effort.  In the case of Bolivia, however, the boom in mineral and petroleum
prices in the mid-seventies, aided by over-extended foreign borrowing, had
given rise to increased public sector investment, much of it in capital
intensive over-designed and subsequently underutilized equipment, often with
inappropriate technology. Since a great deal of the public investment took
place in autonomous or semi-autonomous public corporations with independent
access to foreign capital markets, the aim of controlling and rationalizing
public investment went hand-in-hand in the program design with monitoring the
investments themselves as well as foreign indebtedness.
33.       As the PCR (para. 21) states, the Government had submitted a public
investment and financing program covering the period 1980-83 which was
described in the President's Report (para. 40) as 'realistic in terms of mag-
nitude, composition and the Government's ability to finance it." As compared
with 1979, the 1980-83 proposed program would double the share of the primary
sectors in total investment from about a quarter to a little under a half,
reducing the shares of industry, transport and the social sectors (education,
urban and housing, basic sanitation and health and social welfare).  While
the intention was to weed out unproductive projects and give priority to
projects nearing completion, total public investment was projected to grow
moderately in real terms but to remain well below the high levels achieved in
1976-79.



- 14 -
Table 2: Planned Changes in the Structure of Public Investments
(at Constant 1980 prices)
Programed 1979     Total 1980-83
z                 z
Primary Sectors                           24.8              44.6
(Agriculture)                           (7.6)            (12.2)
(Mining)                                (8.3)            (14.6)
(Hydrocarbons)                          (8.9)            (17.8)
Industry                                  10.0               6.4
Energy                                    11.1               9.5
Transp. & Communications                  24.5              19.7
Social Sectors                            29.6              19.8
Total                                    100.0             100.0
Source:  President's Report, Table 4, p. 16.                 -
34.       The President's Report also showed that the current surplus of the
consolidated public sector would turn from a deficit in 1979 to a projected
surplus from 1980 onwards, with the "rest of the public sector' showing
surpluses throughout the period, and the central government reducing its
deficit in 1980, but creating surpluses from 1980 onwards.15/
35.       Contrary to the expectations of the President' s Report about the
feasibility of the program, the PCR judges the program as having been based
on  over-optimistic assuiwtions."  The unit to be established at the Ministrv
of Planning and Coordina -on to control and monitor expenditures of the main
public enterprises (PresideAt's Report, para. 42) appears to have failed. In
retrospect, far from rising. public investment fell precipitately in 1980.
As compared with 11.5 per cent of GDP projected in the investment program it
amounted only to about 6 per cent whereas it had been 10 per cent in 1979.
The major factor behind the deterioration was the decline of the resources
available to the Central Government.   While current expenditure soared,
revenues dropped sharply in real terms due to a drop in import duties, and a
decline in the tax base for incomes and mineral exports.
F.   Loan Disbursement and Procurement
36.       The PCR very adequately covers these aspects of the operation and
this memorandum has little to add in this regard.  It remains to be said,
15/ President's Report, Table 5, p. 17. This is to be contrasted with the
PCR's statement (para. 21) that the central government's savings were
projected to become positive by 1983.



- 15 -
however, that the proceeds of the loan were a valuable addition to Bolivia's
meager foreign exchange earnings in 1980 and without these, imports and pro-
duction would have further declined.  The audit is satisfied that the loan
proceeds were not used to support imports on the negative list (Loan Agree-
ment, Annex to Schedule 1), but, as mentioned in various audits before, funds
are fungible, and negative lists, though useful, are not always essential.
Information was obtained from the Treasury and from the Ministry of Coordina-
tion about the allocation of counterpart funds to priority projects as the
Loan Agreement had specified, and again the audit is satisfied that that was
performed in conformity with the loan conditions. The only disturbing aspect
here, however, was that data could not be obtained by the OED mission about
the sectoral allocation of investment funds in recent years, including those
financed by non-Treasury sources, covering the consolidated investment of all
the public  sector.    This  failure reflects  specifically  the failure to
strengthen the monitoring and control mechanism at the Planning Ministry in
respect of public investment, which had been one of the reforms agreed under
SAL.
G.  Debt Monitoring and Control
37.       As the President's Report had pointed out (paras. 18-19), Bolivia's
public external debt, both mediumr- and long-term, had grown rapidly in recent
years, helped by its improved creditworthiness during the mineral boom of the
Seventies. Between 1974 and 1979 such debt had risen from US$630 million or
28 per cent of GDP to about US$2 billion or 40 per cent of GDP. Particularly
on account of the shorter maturities and high interest rates of much of the
more recent borrowing, the debt service ratio had saarply .-lsen to about 31
per cent in 1979, as compared with 11 per cent in 1974 (President's Report,
para. 18). The 1980 stand-by agreement with the IMF and the World Bank SAL
agreement had been associated with a major debt rescheduling exercise with
foreign commercial banks from which Bolivia had heavily borrowed.   The
failure of subsequent agreement with the Fund for another stand-by and
possible extended access to Fund resources, despite a number of attempts, and
the abandonment of the SAL have largely inhibited the flow of further
finance from this source, though there has been notable support from some of
Bolivia's important regional creditors. Despite a number of debt reschedul-
ing arrangements with foreign creditors, arrears on capital repayments
mounted.   Both rescheduled debt and capital arrears increased from US$11
million in 1979 to US$89 million in 1980 and again to US$115 million in 1981
and were estimated at about US$200 million in 1982 (see IMF, Supplement to
the Staff Report for the 1982 Article IV Consultations (SM/82/137) p. 4). In
August 1980 Bolivia reached agreement with a consortium of foreign commercial
banks to defer service payments of US$172 million on liabilities maturing
mostly in 1980, and was later to negotiate similar agreements including a
rescheduling agreement for US$459 million in April 1981 which incorporated
the earlier agreement. Without debt rescheduling, the ratio of mediumr- and
long-term debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services which was
17.6 per cent in 1976, would have been 42 per cent in 1980.16/ Duriug the
16/ See IMF, Bolivia - Recent Economic Developments, op. cit., Appendix II,
p. 58.



- 16 -
three-year period 1980-82 the deficit on capital account in the balance of
payments is estimated to have aggregated over US$700 million, and the loss of
foreign reserves US$500 million. 7/ At present, Bolivia finds itself unable
to procure fresh foreign capital inflows of a magnitude sufficient to
eliminate its current crisis.
38.       As the SAL had envisaged, progress has been made, especially at the
Central Bank, to monitor existing debt and its servicing, especially as many
entities which had traditionally had independent access to foreign sources of
borrowing, were forced by the wide gap between official and free market
exchange rates to channel service payments through the Central Bank. Since
the inception of SAL, marked progress has been made to record debt obliga-
tions and to computerize these, but understandably owing to the persistent
crisis no effective mechanism for managing new indebtedness has yet evolved.
E.   The Technical Assistance Component
39.       In line with other SALs the operation contained a program of
studies of key areas of the economy, intended to shed light on various policy
reforms.   Part B of the project, as described in Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement, covered:
'The execution of studies in the following fields" (i) structure
and level of taxes on the mining sector and specific incentives
aimed at encouraging investment in such sector; (ii) key problems
of, and constraints to, agricultural exports; and (iii) prefeasi-
bility of projects in agriculture and mining sectors."
Out of the loan's proceeds US$1.3 million was earmarked for these studies.
The Letter on Development Policies referred under -Reform of Mineral Taxa-
tion' (para. 6) to the necessity of "updating of presumed costs" of the
mineral producers (used as a basis for calculating imputed profits) and
establishing an adjustment factor for presumed costs based on the floor price
of the International Tin Council and pointed out that the Government consi-
dered that it needed "further analysis of, and possible action on, the for-
mula to update presumed costs, the provision of specific tax incentives and
overall level of mineral taxation." Similarly for agriculture the government
intended (para. 7) t- take further action on adjusting farm gate prices for
agricultural products, including coffee, and the gradual introduction of dif-
ferential pricing for quality beef. A pilot experiment would be mounted in
this regard before a national pricing program was decided upon so that prices
were set and periodically adjusted, which would provide adequate incentives
for producers to export. The -Government expect[ed] that the findings of the
Bank supported study would provide the framework for export-promotion pro-
grams and relevant institutional measures" (Letter of Development Policies,
para. 7).
17/ Table in IMF Supplement to the Staff Report for the 1982 Article IV
Consultation as updated by the Audit Mission.



- 17 -
40.       Not only would the studies benefit policy formulation for taxation
and pricing in the mineral and agricultural sectors with the purpose of
promoting exports, but they would also help to rationalize and adjust the
public investment and financing program. Criteria had been set to weed out
lower priority projects and to concentrate on projects nearing completion and
those contributing directly to exports, and the government expected that "the
feasibility reports to be financed by the World Bank [would] help improve the
quality of public investment in the future, particularly in agriculture,
mining and hydrocarbons sectors through identification of high priority proj-
ects" (Letter on Development Policies, para 9).
41.       In the President's report the reforms of mineral taxation were said
to require 'several years" as the system would be rationalized to increase
incentives for exploration and development of low grade ores; to increase
land taxes substantially; and to incorporate relevant costs in the adjustment
factor for presumed costs.   "Financing would be provided from the proposed
loan for a study to analyze these and other aspects of further tax reform...
The study would also analyze the level of mineral taxation in Bolivia"
(para. 26). The government was also said to be seeking guidance for setting
agricultural prices and "[a] small proportion of the proposed loan would be
used to carry out a study of the institutional and marketing support that
would be needed for promoting agricultural exports" (President's Report,
para. 27). Details were given in the President's Report (para. 47) about the
use of funds for these studies.
42.       Implementation was a little different from plans.   The UNDP came
forward with additional funds for studies in support of the structural
adjustment program (PCR, para. 26) and eventually the efforts of the two
agencies were merged, with the Bank acting as the executing agency. Under
this arrangement it was possible to finance ten studies in all, with the
entire amount for technical assistance under SAL allocated to a major study
for the reform of COMIBOL.   Even though the project document of the UNDP
project (BOL/80/005) was only signed in January 1981, well after the release
of the second tranche, the UNDP funds were used to finance retroactively some
of the studies already completed. A list of the studies completed under this
project appears as Annex 2.  The focus was on monitoring and evaluation of
public investment, stimulating investment in the mining sector and reforming
the antiquated and inhibiting system of mining sector taxation.
43.       The sum of US$1.3 million was fully disbursed by end-1981.  It went
(in conjunction with US$900,000 from UNDP and US$1 million equivalent from
the borrower) to finance a US$3.2 million study of the public sector corpora-
tion COMIBOL, the largest mineral entity in Bolivia, responsible for
employing 26,000 people directly as well as 10,000 cooperative workers.
COMIBOL, three-quarters of whose operations involve tin, had been accumu-
lating debt and realizing growing deficits. The purpose of the study was to
rehabilitate this corporation administratively and technically. The COMIBOL
study which emerged on completion in thirteen volumes, was not completed
until early 1982, and its recommendations, which focused on rationalizing its
operation, have been opposed by the strong Federation of Mineworkers who have



- 18 -
objected to dismissing redundant labor and closing down unproductive sites.
With a declining world tin market, the financial position of COMIBOL has
become very grave, but the SAL technical assistance component has indicated
many necessary reforms which might be taken up in a subsequent Bank
operation.
44.       Some of the studies carried out have been disappointing (par-
ticularly a study of the export and investment laws which Was intended to
simplify these in the interest of greater production and exports), but
others, especially for agricultural marketing and credit have been useful and
already used, if not to reform current practices, but to indicate reforms,
and have been incorporated in the Bank's economic work. Although the PCR is
correct in indicating the utility of many of these studies for future action
(para. 26), and despite the impact generated by them on policy thinking, it
should be stressed that 'no action has yet been taken on the studies' recom-
mendations" as the PCR puts it. In retrospect, the high expectations set on
these studies both in the President's Report and in the Borrower's letter on
development policy did not materialize, particularly as a means "to improve
the quality of public investment", to "set up the control system over public
enterprises at the Planning Ministry", and to 'pointing out a framework for
export promotion programs with relevant institutional measures." A worth-
while effort to strengthen the Ministry of Planning and Coordination's
monitoring and evaluation of public sector investment, initiated under SAL
and supported by technical assistance, came eventually to nothing owing
partly to political instability.
I.   The Bank's Lending Program
45.       The SAL was the last operation mounted by the Bank in Bolivia.  The
Bank, however, has not been inactive in Bolivia and has maintained an office
in La Paz until the time of writing. During the recent past it has had some
dialogue with the authorities, and continued to supervise the implementation
of projects, including the SAL itself. The IMF has been equally active, with
its own resident mission providing advice and conducting consultations
periodically, and several times has attempted to work out an agreed program
to be supported by a possible Stand-by.   These efforts have  faltered,
however, largely on account of the absence of political stability that must
prevail in order that difficult economic decisions can be made.
46.       The Bank, having decided in 1981 that Bolivia was uncreditworthy
for Bank lending, had refrained from processing further loans. However, it
made an advance of US$1 million from the Project Preparation Facility in
March 1981 to support preparation of a possible future gas project (the
Vuelta Grande Project) - a follow-up on a World Bank Gas and Oil Engineering
Project, begun in 1980.   The importance of gas development and export for
Bolivia cannot be exaggerated and likely future operations by the Bank will
cover this vital sector.  Meanwhile, now that the SAL effort has lost its
momentum, and despite the many valuable insights that have been gained both
in the Bank and in Bolivia about subsequent structural adjustment, it is
probable that no further SAL operations will be started in Bolivia for some
time to come.



- 19 -
J.   Timing of Mid-Term Review
47.       In assessing the feasibility of SAL, the President's Report high-
lighted two risks, namely (a) the ability of the Government to sustain its
determination for reform in the face of opposition, particularly from trade
unions as well as others; (b) the possibility of a change of government as
elections were planned for June 29, with the new government expected in
August, 1980  (President's Report, para. 55).  The fact that there had been
relative political stability in the period 1972-78 and the chance of exer-
cising leverage at the time of releasing the second tranchel8/ tipped the
scales in favor of the loan. But as will be argued below the opportunity for
a careful assessment was not effectively exploited at the time of the second
tranche release. Paragraph 1 of the PCR says:
"Release of the second tranche was made contingent on endorsement
of stabilization policies associated with the loan by a newly
elected government, scheduled to take office several months after
the first tranche was disbursed." [Emphasis added.]
The new administration's support was to be ensured not just for the short-
term "stabilization program" but for both the short- and mediumrterm pro-
grams.   And mounting the review mission in August  1980, did not allow
the "several months" referred to in the above-mentioned quotation.
48.       The Loan Agreement was signed on June 18, 1980, barely two weeks
after Board presentation. The loan became effective on June 25. Before the
release of the second tranche the Loan Agreement (Section 3.06) had mandated
"an exchange of views" between Borrower and Bank, not just on stabilization
measures, but "in respect of each of the policies adopted and the legal and
administrative measures taken or to be taken as a consequence of such policy
in order to carry out the Economic Recovery Program." Such an exchange of
views was strangely fixed in time, as it had to take place "during the las-
calendar week of August 1980." A new administration was expected to assume
power in August anyway, and it was essential for the program that it should
be endorsed by the new government. The last calendar week in August did not
provide adequate time for monitoring progress, obtaining this endorsement and
seeing to it that the program continued to be implemented. It is significant
that the Bank chose not to avail itself of the opportunity to delay the
requisite review, although that option was made available by the Loan Agree-
ment itself which in Section 3.08 had added after the timing of the August
review the phrase "or such later time as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank."
18/ On this latter point see the penultimate sentence of para. 55 of the
President's Report which reads:   "Bank staff review for the second
tranche would provide an opportunity for a careful assessment of the new
administration's short- and mediur-term economic policies and its
ability to implement these policies."



- 20 -
49.       At .he time the review mission visited Bolivia (Augtat 14-27, 1980)
the loan had not been ratified by Congress and the scheduled ratification
after August 6, when the new Congress would have convened, became unlikely as
the military took over on July 18.  In its report dated September 18 the
mission addressed itself to the treas covered by the program, namely, (a)
maintenance of export competitiveness; (b) the public investment and
financing program; (c) external debt management; (d) rationalization of
mining sector taxation; (e) causing exportable agricultural commodities to
have domestic prices in line with international ones; (f) strengthening the
mechanism of control and monitoring of the expenditures of public enter-
prises. With scarce data, complex and unclear developments and the limited
purview imposed on it by its timing, the mission recommended that the second
tranche be released after having judged that -while progress has been slower
than expected in certain areas of the program, in most cases performance has
been satisfactory-, but added the condition: "provided the government takes
certain action in those areas, where performance had been less than ade-
quate.19/
50.       Though performance was seen as having been sufficiently adequate to
justify continuation of Bank support (para. 16), the record was -too mixed
for an unequivocal positive judgement- (para. 15).   Prior conditions for
release of the second tranche were spelled out in the final paragraph, viz.
Ca) definition of an action program leading to a substantial adjustment
of tariffs charged by the public enterprises for power and for
railroads;
(b) definition of new priorities for public investment and formulation
of a financing plan based on increased public savings;
(c) endorsement by the new government of the Borrower's commitment as
expressed in the letter of Development Policies and in the Loan
Agreement; and
(d) providing the Bank with legal documentation to satisfy the loan's
conditions of effectivo'ness.
51.       The same recommendation was transmitted by the Region's management
to senior management by a memorandum on file dated September 23, 1980, para.
12 of which contained the following statement:
-To summarize, while the performance has been generally satis-
factory in most parts of the economic recovery program it has been
inadequate in the area of public sector investment and resource
mobilization. In view of the importance of this component of the
program, I recommend that the second tranche of the loan not be
19/ Memorandum on file dated September 18, 1980, "BOLIVIA - Structural Ad-
justment Loan: Results of Performance Review-, para. 1.



- 21 -
released until some prior remedial action is taken in this area.-
[Emphasis added]
52.       According to files, a Bolivian delegation visited the Bank in early
October, and a satisfactory letter came from the Minister of Finance
reiterating government commitment.20/   This was considered  -a promising
basis for a dialogue with the new Government- (memo dated October 6, 1980)
which it was thought, might be conducive to a second bAL.  On October 28,
Bank management authorized the release of the second tranche, and on November
18 a memorandum was sent to the Executive Directors (Sec M80-853) to that
effect. In this memorandum management mentioned that -since the August mis-
sion the government has initiated measures to accelerate execution of
priority investment projects and has initiated the necessary steps to raise
public sector tariffs in the very near future- (para. 2). It also referred
to the IMF stand-by in the following terms:
'Performance under the IMF stand-by agreement has been satisfactory
through the second quarter. An IMP mission is currently in Bolivia
to review whether ceiling/targets for the third quarter have been
meat (para. 2).
53.       The satisfactory progress under the Fund's stabilization program
referred to above covered the period to end-June, i.e., before the release of
the SAL's first tranche. Though in August 1980 the Fund was to release the
third tranche, according to Fund staff such release signified the observance
of the agreed ceilings and did not necessarily imply the satisfactory imple-
mentatiou of the program.  But progress obviously became so unsatisfactory
afterwards that the fourth tranche was never released and the stand-by
abandoned.
54.       One conclusion emerges clearly from this experience:  the timing of
the mid-term review mission was ill-designed to monitor compliance with loan
conditions, and once the second tranche was disbursed there was no leverage
left, considering also the absence of subsequent Bank lending. The clause in
the loan agreement giving the Bank the power to delay the mid-term review was
not invoked. However, Bank management rightly took some time attempting to
enlist the support of the new government for the program which it succeeded
in doing before the release of the tranche in November. Later, in response
to an enquiry by an Executive Director the Region emphasized that the tranche
20/ The letter, dated October 8, 1980, included the intention of the Govern-
ment to set public sector tariffs so as to ensure the financial
viability of major public enterprises, and the establishment of an
inter-ministerial commission to examine this issue in detail. Reforms
were promised 'in the very near future" for the railroads and before the
end of 1980 for the power corporation.



- 22 -
was released after the Bank was satisfied that Bolivia was in substantial
compliance with the terms stipulated for such release in the Loan
Agreement.  .-21/
V. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
55.       In the light of the foregoing the operation can be judged, on
balance, not to have been a success.   The PCR rightly concludes that the
accomplishments of the Structural Adjustment Loan were shortlived."  The
effects of the measures taken prior to SAL's initiation and sustained for a
short period afterwards  eroded quickly in a deteriorating political environ-
ment.- -As a result the SAL program did not generate a discernible positive
effect on the performance of the economy- (para. 29). The components of the
program were correctly identified:  structural reforms in mining taxation,
agricultural prices and public investment, a resource mobilization effort, an
exchange rate that would maintain export competitiveness and a variety of
stabilization measures. Once stabilization got out of hand and public sector
deficits mounted, however, the rest of the program was seriously undermined,
especially as there was reluctance to adjust the exchange rate despite mount-
ing inflation. A decline in the terms of trade after 1980, though not deci-
sive, did contribute to a deteriorating environment, particularly character-
ized by government inability to face economic reality by taking unpopular
decisions.
56.       The PCR states that political risk was envisaged at the time the
loan was conceived, but that at the time, however, there was reason to
believe that these risks were remote... (para. 30). The audit concludes
that such risks, far from being remote, were indeed close and real, and tte
President's Report had clearly indicated that tranching was deliberately
chosen to guard against such risks. The Region failed to use the tranching
process with its mid-term review seriously in an effort to reduce these risks
as the President's Report had intended it to be so used. But once the second
tranche had been released, the SAL program had for all practical purposes
come to an end. In this regard it is difficult to accept the conclusion of
the PCR that any gains were in fact made during SAL's execution (para. 31,
last line), though progress may indeed have been made prior to the SAL's
initiation, especially as the release of the second tranche in November 1980
was followed in April 1981 by the decision in the Bank that Bolivia had
ceased to be creditworthy and that no further SALs would be considered (PCR,
para. 14).
57.       Besides the political aspects there were also weaknesses in design
which are candidly mentioned by the PCR. Despite the correct identification
of the package that made up the program, the program failed to set in motion
a process for reforms. In the words of the PCR (para. 12):
21/ Memorandum on file dated January 22, 1981.



- 23 -
-The SAL did not ... sponsor or establish, in either the productive
sectors or the central bureaucracy, any integrated programs which
directly addressed structural change. The closest approximation to
such a program was a review of current and planned public sector
investment, a change in [the] mining tax system and a study to
determine the institutional and marketing support needed for pro-
moting agricultural exports. No systematic procedures were set up,
however, to ensure that future investment programs were appro-
priately analyzed and executed, or that the recommendations of the
agricultural studies were carried out."
The same lack of process characterizes other parts of the program, notably
the management of external debt, the encouragement of private saving, the
containment of public sector deficits and the promotion of exports. The fact
that the operation had started as a Program rather than a Structural Adjust-
ment Loan may be behind these shortcomings, but it does not explain them
away. A great deal of preparation is necessary to guide a structural aajust-
ment process, and such preparation had not been undertaken.221
58.       Two lessons stand out from this experience.  First, the political
environment surrounding a SAL program should receive careful analysis, and
where tranching is perceived as a safeguard against the political risk
involved and also to ensure that the agreed programs are appropriately imple-
mented, it should be taken seriously.   Second, even if the elements of a
medium-term adjustment process have been correctly identified, as in the case
of this operation, there must be, in addition, a carefully delineated, time-
bound, implementation schedule where targets are defined and the process to
achieve them are worked out in detail. The supervision of program implemen-
tation in this case suffered fundamentally from the absence of such detailed
planning.
22/ The Region further argues that this was the first operation in a series
which would have expanded gradually on the initial measures and that the
institutional reforms had intentionally been kept within the absorptive
capacity of the public administration system and until the results of
the studies initiated under SAL I had clarified the necessary reforms.



- 24 -
ANE  1
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
Statistical Annex
Table 1    -      Composition of Expenditure on Gross
Domestic Product 1979-83
Table 2    -      Expenditure on Gross Domestic Product 1979-83
Table 3    -      Year-to-Year Percentage Change in Expenditure on
Gross Domestic Product 1979-83 at constant 1970
Prices
Table 4    -      Public Sector Deficit 1978-1982
Table 5    -      Annual Inflation Rates 1971-1983
Table 6    -      Exchange Rates 1976-1983
Table 7    -      Summary Balance of Payments 1979-1982
Table 8     -     Merchandise Exports 1978-82
Table 9    -      Outstanding External Debt by Initial Maturity
at Year-End 1976-82



- 25 -
ANNE 1
Table 1
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
Composition of Expenditure on Gross Domestic Product 1979-83
(per cent at current prices)
1979     1980     1981     1982 /a  1983 /b
GDP                             100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Gross Domestic Investment        19.9      13.1     11.4      8.7     12.8
(Fixed Capital Formation)       (17.1)   (13.5)   (10.6)   (10.6)   (12.8)
(Change in Stocks)               (2.8)   (-0.4)      0.8    -1.9      -
Consumption                      84.6     86.5      93.1    88.9      94.6
(Public Consumption)            (11.9)   (14.8)   (14.7)   (11.5)    (9.5)
(Private Consumption)           (72.7)   (71.7    (78.4)   (77.4)   (85.1)
Total Domestic Absorption       104.5     99.6    104.5      97.6    107.4
Resource Balance                 -4.5     +0.4    -4.5       +2.4    -7.4
(Imports of Goods
& Services)               (-21.7)  (-20.1)  (-19.9)  (-23.8)  (-28.5)
(Exports of Goods
& Services)                (17.2)   (20.5)   (15.4)   (26.2)   (21.1)
/a   Preliminary
/b   Estimate
Source: Central Bank of Bolivia



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
Expenditure on Gross Domestic Product 1979-83
(millions of Bolivian pesos at 1970 prices)
1979     1980     1981      1982 /a  1983 lb
GDP                           19,104   19,212   19,010   17,271   16,193
Gross Domestic Investment      3,169    2,358    1,966    1,094    1,341
(Fixed Capital Formation)    (3,017)  (2,419)  (1,851)  (1,344)  (1,341)
(Change in Stocks)              (152)    (-61)    (115)   (-250)      (-)
Consumption                   16,211   17,229   17,054   15,268   14,117
(Public Consumption)          (2,521)  (2,559)  (2,559)  (2,132)  (2,123)
(Private Consumption)        (13,690) (14,670) (14,495) (13,136) (11,994)
Total Domestic Absorption    19,380   19,587   19,020   16,362   14,458
Resource Balance                -276     -375      -10       909      735
(Imports of Goods
& Services)             (-3,647) (-3,423) (-3,040) (-1,982) (-1,936)
(Exports of Goods
& Services)              (3,371)  (3,048)  (3,030)  (2,891)  (2,671)
/a   Preliminary
/b   Estimated
Source: Central Bank of Bolivia



-27 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 3
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
Year-to-Year Percentage Change
in Expenditure on Gross Domestic Product 1979-83
at Constant 1970 Prices
1980      1981      1982 /a  1983 /b
GDP                                    0.6      -1.1      -9.1       -6.2
Gross Domestic Investment            -25.6    -16.6    -44.4         22.6
(Fixed Capital Formation)            -19.8    -23.5    -27.4        -0.2
(Change in Stocks)                                a
Consumption                           -5.9      -1.0    -10.5       -7.5
(Public Consumption)                   1.5       0.0    -16.7       -0.4
(Private Consumption)                  7.2      -1.2      -9.4      -8.7
Total Domestic Absorption              1.1      -2.9     -14.0       -5.5
Resource Balancee
(Imports of Goods & Services)        -19.8     -23.5     -27.6      -0.2
(Exports of Goods & Services)         -9.6      -0.6      -4.6      -7.6
/a  Preliminary
/b  Estimate
Source: Based on data of Central Bank of Bolivia.



-28 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 4
PROGRAM4 PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
Public Sector Deficit 1978-1982
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982
(In million $b)
Central Goverrment      3,838.8    6,594.3   8,848.1  10,646.6  52,822.8
Rest of the
Public Sector      3,969.0   1,178.8   2,677.8   1,372.2  20,157.0
Total Deficit           7,808.8   7,773.1  11,161.9  11,978.8  72,979.8
Adjustment items         -610.1      487.1    -254.9       234.5      -
Finance                 7,198.7   8,260.2  10,907.0  12,213.3  72,979.8
of which Foreign    4,374.1   3,134.9   6,040.3   7,573.5   1,787.7
Domestic   2,824.6   5,125.3   4,866.7   4,639.8  71,192.1
Deficit as x of GDP        10.2        8.4        8.7        7.2       18.2
Source: "General Aspects of the Bolivian Economy' External Finance
Department of the Central Bank of Bolivia (mimiographed and undated)
circa late 1983.



-29 -                                 ANNEX 1
Table 5
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUS7bMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
Annual Inflation Rates
Implicit
GDP                      Consumer
Deflator /a                 Prices  /b
1971                        4.4                         3.6
1972                       20.4                         6.5
1973                       41.6                        31.6
1974                       58.1                        62.7
1975                        6.5                         8.0
1976                        8.1                         4.5
1977                       10.9                         8.0
1978                       13.4                        10.3
1979                       18.2                        19.8
1980                       38.9                        47.3
1981                       30.5                        32.1
1982                      165.3                       123.6
1983                      239.8
la   Calculated on the basis of Bank of Bolivia's estimates of GDP at current
and at 1970 prices.
lb   Based on data in IMF, International Financial Statistics



- 30 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 6
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
Exchange Rates 1976-1983
Official Rates           Free Market Rates
Par Rate/Market Rate
-~-Pesos Bolivianos per US Dollar-----
.1976                       20.00
1977                       20.00
1978                       20.00
1979                       20.39
1980                       24.51
1981                       24.51                       32.50/a
1982                       64.12                      119.20/b
I                       (36.94)                      45.47/c
II                        (43.18)                     89.47/c
III                        (43.18)                    187.73/c
IV                      (133.17)                     224.00/d
1983                      196.00                       -
I                      (196.00)                      -
II                      (196.00)                      -
III                       (196.00)                     -
IV                      (196.00)                   1,O0O.00/e
/a   Average of monthly averages for the five months August-September 1981.
/b   Average of monthly averages for the ten months January-October 1982.
/c   Average of monthly averages in each of the quarters cited.
7rd  Monthly average for October 1982 only.
/e   As observed by the Audit Mission in La Paz during November 1983.
Source: IMF, International Financial Statistics for the official rate and
IMF, Staff Report for the 1982 Article IV Consultants (SM/82/137),
for the free market rate (except for 1983).



- 31 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 7
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
Summary Balance of Payments 1979-82 /a
1979      1980      1981      1982
(in millions of US dollars)
A.   Current Account /b             -358.0   -118.8   -286.1       -93.3
Merchandise Exports fob         761.6     941.8     913.3     827.7
(Crude Petroleum and Gas)   (149.0)   (220.7)   (339.4)   (381.5)
(Metals)                    (579.5)   (621.7)   (469.3)   (354.3)
(Other)                      (33.2)    (99.3)   (104.6)    (91.9)
Merchandise Imports fob       -815.1   -680.6   -681.8   -428.7
Trade Balance                -53.5      261.2     231.6     399.0
Other Goods and Services
and Income net            -356.5   -435.9    -556.0   -537.0
Unrequited Transfers             41.9      55.8      38.3       44.7
B.  Direct Investment and
Other Long-Term Capital /c      257.9      52.3     337.8     164.6
C.  Other Short-Term Capital /c       37.9      18.5    -49.9    -167.5
D.  Net Errors and Omissions        -28.7    -261.5   -320.8       -34.0
E.  Counterpart Items, Exceptional
Financing and Liabilities
Constituting Foreign
Authorities' Reserves           114.1     175.3     344.3      170.3
F.  Total Group A-E                   23.3   -134.1       25.4       40.2
G.  Change in Reserves /d           -23.3      134.1    -25.4      -40.2
/a   Aggregated Presentation; original data in SDRs, converted to US dollars
at average period rates as shown in International Financial Statistics.
Figures may not add up to totals because of rounding.
/b   Excluding exceptional financing.
/c   Excluding exceptional financing, liabilities constituting foreign
authorities' reserves and change in reserves.
/d   (-) means increase.
Source: IMF, Balance of Payments Statistics, '7olume 34, Yearbook, Part I,
1983.



-32 -                                ANNM  I1
Table 8
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
Merchandise Exports 1978-82
(CIP value in millions of US dollars)
1978      1979      1980       1981 /a   1982 /a
Minerals                      515.6     591.9      641.1     556.0      419.4
(of which tin)             (374.2)   (395.6)   (378.1)   (343.1)   (278.3)
Natural Gas                    78.5     105.0      220.9     336.7      381.6
Crude Petroleum and
Liquid Gases                 43.7      44.7       24.3       9.8       16.8
Non-traditional Products       87.5     115.6      149.9      92.8      80.4
(of which coffee)           (16.7)    (19.7)    (20.8)    (15.8)    (15.5)
(of which wood)             (12.6)    (21.7)    (31.1)    (18.0)    (11.6)
(of which sugar)            (14.2)    (30.8)    (51.2)      (5.7)     (8.1)
TOTAL                         725.3     857.2   1,036.2      995.3     898.2
Tin as Z of total              51.6      46.2       36.5      34.5       31.0
/a   Preliminary
Source: Central Bank of Bolivia, Division of Economic Studies, 'Statistical
Bulletin No. 247, June 1983.



-33 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 9
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
Outstanding External Debt by Initial Maturity at Year-End /a
1976-1982
More than
Total    Up to 1 year  1.1 - 5 years  5.1-10 years  10 years
1976         1,127.0        20.2          190.2         177.6       739.0
1977         1,515.3        57.6          282.1         332.5       843.1
1978         1,849.6       88.1           149.4        634.5        977.6
1979         2,004.9        64.2          114.7        753.9       1,072.1
1980         2,294.8        74.6          137.4        726.1       1,356.7
1981         2,582.6        40.6          191.0        769.8       1,581.2
1982         2,629.9         n.s.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
/a   Defined as outstanding disbursed pLblic and public,v guaranteed debt
repayable in foreign and local currency, excluding short-term debt of
the financlal sector.
Source:  MIF, Bolivia - Recent Economic Developments, (SN/82/162) dated
August 9, 1982, Appendix It, Table 16, and Cen -'al Bank of Bolivia,
Departuent of External 2inance, "General Aspects of the Bolivian
Economy', not dated, Table 6.



_34 -                                 ANNEX 2
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA.STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
List of Studies Completed Under
The Technical Assistance Component
SUBJECT                           REPORT TITLE
Fiscal Policy                     Development of Indices for Mining and
Non-Mining Costs for Bolivia
Economic Data Base for Bolivian Mines
(Data User's Manual)
Implementation of a Revised Bolivian
Mineral Tax Policy
Presentation of Bolivian Mining Costs
and Cost Index
Strengthening of Systems          Reforming the Management of the Public
Sector Enterprises
Export Promotion                  Report to the Government on Foreign
Trade Policy
Analysis of the Basis for Reforming
the Investment Law and the Policies
Behind It.
Strengthening of the Financing
Systems for Investments and
Productive Activities             Bolivian Refinancing Fund
Export Promotion                  Foreign Trade and the Agricultural
Sector in Bolivia
Assistance to the Bolivian
Mining Corporation                A Critical Analysis of Past and
Present Efforts



-35 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 1
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BOLIVIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1865-BO)
LETTER ON DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
April 1, 1980
Dear Mr. McNamara,
1.       Bolivia is currently facing an economic crisis which has been
aggravated by delay in the adoption of corrective measures.  The current
account deficit of the balance of payments in 1979 amounted to about 10.5Z of
GDP, compared to a surplus of about 6; in 1974. This deterioration reflects
a decline in export volumes, a rapid increase in imports, and increased
interest payments resulting from the growth of external debt. On the fiscal
side, the rapid expansion in public investment during 1975-78, particularly
in capital-intensive processing plants, and the decline in the operating sur-
pluses of the major public enterprises led to a severe disequilibrium. The
overall balance of the public sector moved from a small surplus in 1974 to a
deficit of about 10.5Z of GDP in 1979. Real GDP growth, which had averaged
over 5.-5 for the period 1970-77, amounted to culy 3.3Z and 2.1%, respec-
tively, during 1978 and 1979. At the same time, the rate of inflation, as
measured by the GDP deflator, accelerated from an average of about 10% during
1975-77 to about 17% in 1978 and 19% in 1979.
2.       The Government of Bolivia has formulated an integrated economic
recovery program, of which important initial measures have already been
taken. The program is aimed at (i) removing short-term domestic and external
imbalances, and (ii) reducing or eliminating major structural problems which
have affected  this country's 'economic growth performance over the past
several years. The main componsents of the program are the following:
(a) Economic and Financial Stabilization Program;
(b) Specific Measures for Export Promotion;
(c) Public Investment and Financing Program.
Economic and Financial Stabilization Program
3.       On November 30, 1979, the Government took a series of economic
measures aimed at reducing the fiscal and balance of payments deficits.
one such measure was the replacement of the fixed exchange rate of US$1 -
$b20 by a new exchange rate regime based on a managed float, set initially at



-36 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 2
US$1 = $b25.  This implied a depreciation of 25%.  In the future, the ex-
change value of the peso will be determined in relation to the net inter-
national reserve position of the Central Bank and the relationship between
domestic and foreign costs. Another measure was the increase of about 100%,
on average, in the prices of petroleum derivatives sold in the domestic
market. This measure will not only improve the financial situation of the
public sector, but also help to dampen domestic demand for hydrocarbons,
thereby increasing the quantity available for export.   The Government is
willing to consider the formulation of further action in this area. In the
area of monetary policy, we have eliminated dollar-denominated peso deposits,
and have restructured the system of interest rates and legal reserve require-
ments to encourage the growth of peso-denominated savings. The program also
includes ceilings on net domestic borrowing of the public sector from the
banking system, and on the magnitude of external borrowing of less than 10
years' maturity as well as targets for the levels of international reserves.
These measures formed the basis for an agreement with the IMF for a one-year
stand-by arrangement, which was approved by the IMF Board on February 1,
J980.
4.        As a result of the rapid growth in external debt and the poor ex-
port performance of the last several years, external debt service payments
have risen sharply in relation to exports. We are negotiating a debt re-
financing operation with a number of foreign commercial banks. Our objective
is to arrange for a refinancing loan of about US$200 million, which would be
used to repay some of the Central Bank and COMIBOL short- and medium-term
loans.
Specific Measures for Export Promotion
5.        Bolivia's overall merchandise exports have experienced no real
growth between 1974 and 1979. To a large extent, this poor performance has
been the consequence of an overvalued exchange rate, inappropriate domestic
pricing policies for hydrocarbons and agricultural products, lack of specific
incentives for agricultural exports, and an inappropriate structure of
mineral taxation. It is the Government's intention to reverse this tendency
and to pursue policies that will foster the development of exports in indus-
tries in which Bolivia can be an efficient producer.  In addition to the
action already taken on the exchange rate and hydrocarbons' prices (discussed
in para. 3) and to the increased emphasis on export-oriented projects in the
public investment program (discussed in para. 9), the following specific
measures for promoting exports have been adopted, or are expected to be
adopted in the near future. The two main objectives of these measures are:
(i) to allow exports to grow at about 6% per annum in real terms over the
period 1980-85, and (ii) to reduce the heavy reliance on exports of tin from
over 50X of merchandise exports in 1979 to about 33Z by 1985.
A. Reform of Mineral Taxation
6.        Bolivia's main export sector, mining, has been negatively affected
by a structure of taxation which discouraged exploration and development.



- 37 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 3
The Government has recently adopted a mineral tax reform which includes: (i)
the elimination of the export tax; (ii) the updating of presumed costs, and
(iii) the establishment of an adjustment factor for presumed costs, based on
the floor price of the International Tin Council.  In our opinion, these
measures initially provde sufficient incentives to the mining sector to
develop efficiently the xineral resources of Bolivia. The Government con-
siders that further analysis of, and possible action on, the formula to
update presumed costs, the provision of specific tax incentives and overall
level of mineral taxation are needed.   It is our objective to increase
investment and production in the sector, and to increase the exports of the
sector by at least 3.5X per annum in real terms between 1980 and 1985.
B.   Agricultural Pricing and Marketing Policies
7.        Low domestic producer prices for several agricultural products with
export potential have been a major drawback to agricultural exports.   To
promote production of commodities with the highest export and import substi-
tution potential, the Government has significantly increased farm-gate prices
for a number of agricultural products, among others for beef, by about 55X,
for dairy products by 62%, and for poultry by 25%. We recognize that further
action is required.  Most importantly, the action would refer to (i) an
increase in the farm-gate price for coffee and the gradual introduction of
differential prices taking quality into account; and (ii) the introduction of
differential pricing for beef, with higher prices for better cuts.   It is
intended to gain experience on a pilot basis before introducing differential
prices on a national basis. It is our objective to set prices so that they
provide adequate incentives to producers for export and we intend to adjust
these prices as necessary to meet this objective. In addition, the Govern-
ment expects that the findings of the Bank supported study would provide the
framework for export promotion programs and relevant institutional measures.
C.   Future Exports of Natural Gas
8.        One of the bright aspects of our country's long-term export pros-
pects is the possible sale of large quantities of natural gas to neighboring
countries. A program, partly financed by the World Bank, is under prepara-
tion to ascertain the magnitude of gas reserves. The Government intends to
take preparatory steps as early as possible to allow initiation of the
construction of a pipeline to export gas immediately after sufficient
reserves have been confirmed provided satisfactory agreement on the sale
price has been arrived at with prospective buyers such as Brazil and other
countries.
Public Investment and Financing Program
9.        The Government has completed the preparation of a public investment
and financing program for the period 1980-83.  The main objectives of the
program are: to give priority to productive projects in agriculture, mining,



-38 -                                ANNEX 3
Page 4
manufacturing and hydrocarbons, particularly to projects with export orienta-
tion; to complete ongoing priority projects before initiating new ones; and
to maintain essential levels of investment in social and transport infra-
structure consistent with the needs of the country.   We have prepared a
revised and significantly cut down priority investment program which is now
in line with domestic and external financing availability. In the process, a
number of large projects have been eliminated from the program while others
have been delayed or cut down in size. We also expect that the feasibility
reports to be financed by the World Bank will help improve the quality of
public investment in the future, particularly in agriculture, mining and
hydrocarbons sectors through identification of high priority projects.
10.       On the financing side, we anticipate continued inflows of external
assistance, plan to maintain net domestic borrowing of the public sector at
levels consistent with our stabilization program, and intend to take further
measures to improve public sector savings. Two such measures for increasing
savings are the following:
A.  Maintenance of Realistic Tariffs and Prices of Public Enterprises
11.       Recently the Government has increased the tariffs of ENDE by 30Z,
of ENFE by 30Z and of AASANA by 70%.  Our policy is to set public sector
tariffs at levels that allow enterprises to earn reasonable rates of return
and that ensure a significant proportion of self-financing for investment.
In particular, the tariffs of ENDE will have to be increased significantly to
help finance the envisaged large investment program.   We also plan to
increase hydrocarbon prices gradually in order to bring the domestic prices
closer to international prices.
B.  Control over the Expenditures and Borrowing of Public Enterprises
12.       In the area of controls over expenditures  and borrowing,  the
Government intends to strengthen its control, particularly of the major
public enterprises.   Wage guidelines have been set in the context of the
stabilization program.   To ensure that the level of programmed investment
is not exceeded, we intend to improve the information system for major public
enterprises and to strengthen the mechanism of control over these enterprises
through instructions based on' generally accepted principles of public
enterprise management, through Government representatives in the Board of
Directors of enterprises, and through strengthening, before August 31, 1980,
of  the  staff  in  the Ministry of Planning and Coordination.    In this
connection, the proposed technical assistance of the World Bank and UNDP to
help set up an appropriate control system and train staff will prove useful.
In the area of controls on external borrowing, INDEF - the entity responsible
for external borrowing - has been dissolved and all matters relating to
external borrowing have been passed on to the Central Bank. The control on
foreign borrowing of public enterprises has been extended to include loans of
maturity less than one year.



- 39 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 5
13.       While important and difficult measures have already been taken as
outlined, the process of economic recovery will probably take three to four
years and require further action. It is in the context of our program for
economic recovery that we consider World Bank support essential.
Yours sincerely,
signed
Adolfo Aramayo
Minister of Finance



- 40 -
L 4s /A 0 1                  A/



- 41 -                   June 30, 1983
Bolivia - First Structural Adjustment Loan (Lu. 1865-BO)
Completion Report
Summary
1.        The US$50 million Bolivia Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) of June
1980 was one of the first of its type in the Bank. It contained many of the
features of the old program loans (i.e., financial support for changes in
macroeconomic variables such as public sector tariffs, agricultural producer
prices and the exchange rate) but not as much in the way of substantive
sectoral programs as has become standard in more recent SALs. The Bolivian
operation's two-tranche structure reflected the atmosphere of political
uncertainty in which it was designed. Release of the second tranche was made
contingent on endorsement of stabilization policies associated with the loan
by a newly elected Government, scheduled to take office several months after
the first tranche was disbursed. In the event, the military intervened
before this Government took office; since they promised to maintain the
stabilization program and agreed to raise some public tariffs, the second
tranche was released.  Subsequently, however, political and economic
pressures caused the military to abandon the program. Discussions on a
second SAL were suspended after Bolivia was judged uncreditworthy for Bank
lending in 1981.
Economic Background
2.        The Bolivian economy expanded rapidly in the mid 1970s.  The
combination of promising oil and gas deposits, increases in world metal and
mineral prices, rising public sector revenues and the stability of the Banzer
Government (1971-78) made the country an attractive client for foreign
commercial banks . Spurred by the availability of commercial financing, the
Government launched a major public sector investment program, averaging about
10% of GDP (about 2/3 of total investment) over the 1972-79 period.
3.        Many of the investments undertaken were expensive and poorly
designed. Petroleum refinery capacity was expanded to 150% of crude output.
Large investments in the national smelting industry, designed to raise
domestic value added in tin production, experienced cost overruns; some
smelting plants were designed with inappropriate technology and capacity
utilization remained low. Many other investments in productive enterprises
failed to generate the resources needed to meet their foreign debt service
payments.
4.        Easy access to foreign exchange permitted the Government to
maintain the peso at a fixed rate of 20$b/US$ during most of the 1970s,
despite inflationary pressures. The resulting overvaluation, combined with
such internal policies as excessive mineral taxation and subsidized petroleum
prices, reduced export earnings. Petroleum exports had amounted to US$160
million in 1974, but fell to some US$20 million ir 1980. The volume of tin
exports also feJll during this period. Only agricultural and gas exports
showed any significant growth in the 1970's.



- 42 -
5.        While export performance lagged, imports grew at a rapid rate,
doubling in real terms between 1970-72 and 1978-80. The current account
became negative in 1975. To finance the rapidly growing deficit (which
reached US$388 million, or 8.6% of GDP in 1979) the Government borrowed
increasingly from foreign commercial banks, thus hardening the debt profile.
Bolivia's pubic debt increased by 65Z in real terms between 1975 and 1978
(rising in nominal terms from US$0.8 billion to US$1.7 billion). Interest
payments rcse from 5% of exports in 1975 to 13% in 1979.
6.        By the end of 1978, it had become clear that Bolivia's petroleum
resources were not as large as had been projected, and that the outlook for
significant future export growth was bleak. With increasing economic
uncertainty and political instability (there were four governments in less
than 16 months during 1978-79), the commercial banks became reluctant to
extend new financing. The Government had little alternative but to turn to
international financial institutions for assistance.
The Structural Adjustment Program
7.        Bank interest in some type of quick-disbursing assistance for
Bolivia dated from the economic updating mission of October 1978. The
mission felt that the country was headed for a period of severe balance of
payments and fiscal difficulties, and that deteriorating resource
mobilization would cut growth and spur inflation. Subsequent developments
confirmed these fears. In mid-1979, the Government, then under a caretaker
administration until elections could be held in 1980, requested Bank program
assistance.
8.        A series of Bank/IMF missions helped the Government define a
package of initial stabilization measures whose short-term objective was to
reduce the fiscal and balance of payments deficits. The measures, adopted on
November 30, 1979, were significant by Bolivian standards and reflected the
then Government's determination to stabilize the economy. The peso, which
had been fixed since 1972 at b$20 perUS$1, was devalued by 25% to b$24.51 per
US$1. Other measures included a 135% increase in the price of hydrocarbon
products, increases in interest rates and changes in the financial savings
rate, and major expenditure cuts in the 1980 budget. The Government also
announced its intention to reach an agreement with the foreign commercial
banks to restructure debt payments falling due in the next two years.
9.        On the basis of these measures, the IMF entered into a stand-by
arrangement in February 1980 for SDR 66.4 million (equivalent to about
US$87.2 million), with the interim Government of President Lydia Gueiler.
The Bank's US$50 million Structural Adjustment Loan, approved by the
Executive Directors on June 5, 1980, supported the stabilization package and
a program of measures that was intended to help promote structural
improvements in the economy. Out of the loan proceeds, US$1.3 milion was set
aside for technical and prefeasibility studies.
10.       The program proposed by the Gueiler Government covered three
areas. First, the Government agreed to maintain the economic and financial
stabilization policies supported by the IMF stand-by, and to continue efforts
to reach agreement with the commercial banks on debt restructuring. Second,
the Government indicated it would try to promote exports by reforming mining



- 43 -
taxation and improving agricultural pricing and marketing policies. Third,
the Government undertook to adopt a realistic public investment program,
by concentrating on priority projects and making the overall program
consistent with available domestic and external resources. It also agreed to
increase public sector tariffs so that enterprises could earn reasonable
rates of return, to raise domestic hydrocarbon prices to bring them more in
line with international levels, and to control public enterprises'
expenditures and borrowing.
11.       The loan did not require the creation of any new institutional
structures. The Government was expected to strengthen the staff in the
Ministry of Planning and Coordination to ensure that the level of programmed
investment was not exceeded. Other policies were to be implemented through
existing channels.
Implementation of the Program
12.       Overview.  The Bolivian SAL essentially supported a series of
policies and measures, most of which were already in place and were intended
to be maintained over the medium term. It was assumed that these measures,
such as higher agricultural prices and lower mining taxes, would lead to
structural changes in production systems, which would in turn promote
increases in agricultural and mineral output. The SAL did not, however,
sponsor or establish, in either the productive sectors or the central
bureaucracy, any integrated programs which directly addressed structural
change. The closest approximation to such a program was a review of current
and planned public sector investment, a change in mining tax system and a
study to determine the institutional and marketing support needed for
promoting agricultural exports. No systematic procedures were set up,
however, to ensure that future investment programs were appropriately
analyzed and executed, or that the recommendations of the agricultural
studies were carried out.
13.       The political environment in which the policies promoted by the SAL
were to be maintained deteriorated sharply in July 1980, when the military,
led by General Garcia Meza, overthrew the interim civilian administration and
blocked the newly elected Government from taking office. The violent nature
of this coup had significant internal and external consequences. At bome,
the regime responded harshly to dissent; meanwhile most foreign lenders cut
off economic assistance. In an effort to rally what little external support
it could, the Garcia Meza Government affirmed its commitment to the
stabilization process. Tax revenues and export proceeds dropped considerablv
in the second half of 1980, however, as unrest in the mines led to a
reduction in output. Since public tariffs were not increased, the Government
made substantial use of Central Bank credit to finance rising current
expenditures, including extraordinary military purchases, while cutting back
severely on the public investment program. By September 30, the Garcia Meza
Government was no longer in compliance with ceilings on net domestic
borrowing, and became ineligible to draw down the fourth and last tranche of
the IMF stand-by.
14.       In August 1980, a Bank mission reviewed the Government's
performance in carrying out the stabilization program, in order to determine
its eligibility for the release of the second tranche. The only condition
required by the legal agreement concerned the competitiveness of exports,



and this Bolivia had complied with. The mission noted, however, that real
public sector tariffs were declining and that, while numerous poor projects
had been cut back or eliminated, higher priority projects had also suffered
reductions in funding. After receiving commitments that public sector
tariffs would be increased and that additional funds would be allocated to
high priority projects in the investment program, the Bank released the
remaining SAL funds (US$23.7 million net of US$1.3 million earmarked for
technical assistance) on November 19, 1980. Although the promised tariff
increases did occur in early 1981, economic performance continued to
deteriorate, to the point where the Bank, in April, determined that Bolivia
was no longer creditworthy and halted much of its project preparation
activity, including discussions on a subsequent SAL.
Content of the Program
15.       The program supported by the SAL was set out in a Letter on
Development Policies sent to the Bank by the Minister of Finance in April
1980 (Attachment 1). Details of arrangements for loan disbursement,
procurement and the use of counterpart funds are provided in Attachment 2;
Government action in each of the three areas that comprised the Structural
Adjustment program is discussed below.
16.       Economic and Financial Stabilization Program.  The program
supported by the SAL and the IMF standby included: (i) devaluing the peso by
25%; (ii) roughly doubling the prices of petroleum products and taking
further action to bring local prices into line with international levels;
(iii) keeping interest rates positive to encourage peso-denominated savings;
Civ) controlling net public sector domestic borrowing; (v) meeting targets
for international reserves; and (vi) renegotiating public commercial debt.
As already noted, most of these measures were in place by the time of SAL
approval. In August 1980, the Garcia Meza Government and a number of foreign
commercial banks agreed on the deferral of US$172 million of debt maturities
falling due in the second half of the year. A subsequent agreement, signed
in April 1981, postponed these maturities plus those falling due in 1981,
1982 and part of 1983, a total of about US$450 million. Although the
agreement was contingent on a new IMF stand-by which never materialized, the
banks accepted this situation and the Garcia Meza Government and its
successors fulfilled their obligations under the agreement through September
1982.
17.       Export Promotion.  The program to stimulate exports, in addition to
maintaining a realistic exchange rate, comprised three elements: (1)
reforming mineral taxation; (ii) improving agricultural pricing and marketing
policies; and (iii) intensifying efforts to export natural gas to nearby
countries. Both the Gueiler and Garcia Meza Governments took steps to these
ends, as described below.
18.       Mining taxes in Bolivia have historically been among the highest in
in the world, and have acted as a deterrent to exploration. In 1979, there
were two main taxes - an export levy and a royalty tax - plus some 40 smaller
taxes which were time consuming and difficult to administer. By not taking
into consideration increases in the cost of production, the royalty
encouraged "high-grading", the mining of the highest grade ore, at the



- 45 -
expense of long-term, efficient exploitation of the ore body.  The changes
introduced by the SAL included elimination of the export tax on March 5, 1980
(Decree 17248), and a decision to link production costs, for purposes of
calculating the royalty, to the floor price set by the International Tin
Council. In August 1980, the Garcia Meza Government took two other
initiatives. The first (Decree Number 17553 of August 2, 1980) granted a tax
credit of up to 40% of the value of new investment. The second (Decree
Number 17551 of August 12, 1980) provided tax incentives for the mining of
ore bodies with a low percentage of mineralization. Under this legislation,
mining firms with such deposits obtained reductions in their taxes of as much
as 50%. The estimated share of taxes in the pre-tax income. of the mining
sector fell from roughly 80% in 1979 to 50% in 1980. It is difficult to
assess what impact these measures have had on investment and production
because of a general decline (with heavy fluctuactions) in metal prices and
the dampening effect of the political turmoil. The production of tin, the
country's main mineral, has not significantly increased in volume since 1980,
ranging from 27,000 to 29,000 tons p.a. over the past three years.
19.       Policies for increasing agricultural exports mainly involved
raising domestic farm-gate prices. While the SAL was under discussion, the
Government increased prices for beef (55%), dairy products (62%) and poultry
(25%). By the end of 1980, however, these gains had been largely offset by
domestic inflation; moreover the military Government did not continue to
adjust farm-gate prices, contrary to the general commitment on price
adjustments provided in the Letter on Development Policies. The Government
also failed to reform the agricultural credit system so as to improve the
flow of credit to producers.
20.       In an effort to expand gas exports, the Gueiler Government
revived domestic debate on the merits of a gas pipeline to Brazil and opened
discussions with the Brazilian authorities. It also signed a US$16.0 million
loan from the World Bank for a gas and oil engineering project (S-25-B0) in
June 1980. The project (which provided assistance for seismic surveys,
appraisal drilling of 12 wells and certification of gas reserves, together
with a prefeasibility study of the Bolivia/Brazil Gas Pipeline) led to the
discovery of a promising retrograde gas condensate reservoir in Vuelta
Grande. Given the economic attractiveness of the reservoir, the Government
and the Bank agreed to proceed with a new operation for recycling the Vuelta
Grande gas. To prepare the project, the Bank provided the Government with a
US$1 million advance from the Project Preparation Facility in March 1981.
Approval of a loan for the Vuelta Grande Project has been delayed, pending
resolution of Bolivia's creditworthiness problems.
21.       Public Investment and Financing Program.  During preparation of the
SAL, the Government presented a medium-term public investment and financing
program for the period 1980-83. The program emphasized projects with export
potential in agriculture, mining and hydrocarbons, and stressed completing
ongoing priority projects before initiating new ones. Large infrastructure
and mining/smelting projects, initiated or planned by previous governments,
were to be delayed or cancelled. The investment program's financing was,
however, based on over-optimistic assumptions; in particular, central
Government savings were projected to become positive by 1983. Most of this
surplus was to be achieved by maintaining realistic public enterprise tariffs



- 46 -
and prices and by limiting borrowing and the growth of expenditures. Net
domestic borrowing was to play a reduced role in financing public
investment. Savings and domestic borrowing were to finance 60% of investment
with the remainder to come from external inflows.
22.       The Government did succeed in eliminating or slowing down execution
of some of the uneconomic projects in the investment program, and, despite
strong political and regional pressures, no new projects were added. Actual
investment spending proved to be much lower than anticipated, however, as a
result of unexpected shortfalls in revenues and unanticipated Government
expenditures on other items. Gross fixed public investment in 1980 amounted
to only b$5.8 billion, (5.7% of GDP) compared with b$8.2 billion in 1979
(8.0% of GDP), and an estimated b$16.3 billion (11.5% of GDP) as projected by
the Bank for 1980. Treasury revenues were some 20% lower than anticipated in
the first half of 1980 because yields from import duties, income taxes and
mining taxes fell as a result of low import levels, the general slowdown of
the economy and the reforms in mining taxes. Higher than anticipated current
expenditures (mainly because of a special wage bonus in May 1980 before the
elections and larger than anticipated military expenditures later in the
year) aggravated the situation.
23.       A major factor contributing to the shortfall in investment was the
failure of the Gueiler and Garcia Meza Governments to keep tariffs and prices
at levels sufficient to cover the expenditures of non-export public
enterprises. These companies experienced a net loss of b$2.0 billion in 1980
compared with a profit of b$847 million in 1979. During the review linked to
release of the SAL's second tranche, the Bank, noting the trend in public
investment and finances, sought specific action on raising public sector
tariffs and improving investment flows. The Government agreed to act on the
tariff issue, and increased railway tariffs (25%), petroleum product prices
(60%, slightly above the prevailing ex-refinery world price) and power
tariffs (40%) in January 1981. It also promised to carry out high priority
investments in 1981 that were unfunded in 1980; this commitment was neither
spelled out in detail nor acted on, however.
Macro-economic Effects of the SAL Program
24.       Despite its initially successful implementation, the stabilization
program failed to have a positive impact on macroeconomic performance. The
table below presents the projections given in the President's Report and
actual outcomes for 1980 and 81:



- 47 -
BOLIVIA - SAL: Selected Economic Indicators, 1980-81
1980                        1981
Original Est L/ Actual/  Original Est L/Actual9
I. GDP growth real (Z)               3.0           0.8        4.33/      -0.6
II. Balance of Payments
(Current US$ million)
i) Exports                   1,170.7       1,045.0    1,294.6      1,014.0
ii) Imports                   1,370.4         958.0    1,472.0      1,049.0
iii) Resource balance           -199.7          87.0     -177.4        -35.0
iv) Current Acet. Balance      -353.7        -166.0     -336.3      -367.0
tv) Change in Res. (- - inc.)  -50.0           34.0      -51.1        154.0
vi) Debt service ratio           25.7          26.2       27.8         36.5
III. Consolidated Public Sector
(as Z of GDP)
i) Investment                   11.5           5.7       12.6          6.6
ii) Current surplus/deficit       2.8          -1.8        5.1         -0.5
1/ Source: President's Report, Bolivia Structural Adustment Loan (No.
P-2811-BO) of May 12, 1980.
2/  Source:  'Bolivia - Structural Constraints and Developments Prospects'
(Rpt. No. 4194-BO) of January 12, 1983.
3/  No figure was provided in the President's Report for 1981; this is the
figure in Annex I of the Report for the average annual rate in 1980-85.



- 48 -
25.       Although exports for 1980 came close to estimated levels, and were
15% higher in nominal terms than in 1979, this was achieved largely because
of improvements in the terms of trade. Overall production levels in mining
and agriculture were about the same in 1980 as in 1979. The political
uncertainty of early 1980 and the unrest that followed the July 1980 coup
undermined economic performance; the private sector withheld investment and
moved funds abroad in the 1980-81 period, while the public sector was
adversely affected by management changes following the coup, and by labor
unrest in the mines of the largest public entity, COMIBOL. As the table
shows, the consolidated public sector ran deficits on its current operations
in both 1980 and 1981, compared with forecasts of surpluses. The public
sector's weak financial performance coincided with the drying up of new
foreign commercial credits and bilateral assistance from many Western donors
(though this was in part offset by increased flows from Argentina and
regional bilateral swaps);the net effect was a substantial cutback in public
investment and a sharp reduction in imports (including some goods and raw
materials needed for production).
Technical Assistance Under the Program
26.       The SAL had set aside US$1.3 million to finance the technical and
pre-feasibility studies needed to plan future policies and to improve the
quality of public investment. After the loan's approval, the UNDP offered
US$500,000 to finance a series of economic studies in support of the
structural adjustment process. The UNDP requested the Bank to serve as
Executing Agency. The project (BOL/80/005), signed on January 22, 1981,
provided funds, inter alia, for: (i) designing an improved system for
monitoring, evaluating and supervising the public investment program; (ii)
studying new credit mechanisms to stimulate investment in the mining and
agricultural sectors; and (iii) studying the existing system of mining
taxation and recommending improvements that would encourage investment and
production. The studies, all of which were completed by the end of 1982,
have provided substantial policy advice to Bolivian officials. A new system
of controlling public sector investment is now under consideration by the
Congress, as is a proposal for modifying mining taxation further so as to
provide greater incentives for investment and production. Studies were also
completed on restructuring Banco Agricola, the publicly owned agricultural
credit agency, and establishing new banking institutions to provide credit
for agricultural production. No action has yet been taken on the studies'
recommendations.
27.       Since UNDP funds had been used to study the economic policy issues
which had been identified for partial financing from the SAL's US$1.3 million
technical assistance component, this entire sum remained available for
feasibility studies in mining and agriculture. In April 1981, the Government
asked the Bank to lead an international effort to rehabilitate the state
mining company, COMIBOL, using SAL technical assistance funds to help finance
a diagnostic study of the corporation and feasibility studies of
high-priority investment projects. In addition to the US$1.3 million, the
UNDP agreed to finance US$900,000 of the US$3.2 million cost of the studies,
with the Government contributing the rest. The financing for the studies was
pooled under UNDP Project 81/002, for which the Bank was appointed Executing
Agency.



- 49 -
28.       The proposed rehabilitation program was of major significance to
the Government; COHIBOL, the country's largest employer, had been E major
contributor to the country's foreign exchangt earnings and government
revenues since its organization in 1952. Not since the early 1960s bad a
Bolivian Government sought outside assistance for COMIBOL, because of the
technical and political difficulties in addressing the corporation's
operations comprehensively. The first phase of the work, the diagnostic
study, was carried out by a team led by Price-Waterhouse and included experts
from the engineering company of Pincock-Allan-Holt. The 31-man team began
work in August 1981; their February 1982 report provided a comprehensive
13-volune assessment of COMIBOL's operations, including recommendations for a
short-term emergency program. Because of increasing political difficulties,
the military regime delayed acting on the report's recommendations. When a
civilian government came to power in October 1982, renewed attention was
given to COMIBOL's problems. A rehabilitation team within COMIBOL is
currently preparing propo% , for a possible Bank engineering loan. The team
is also overseeing prerp    ons of feasibility studies for exploiting several
of COMIBOL's tailing duaps. The contracts for these studies, to be financed
with the remaining funds in UNDP 81/C02, should be awarded in July 1983, and
will take about nine months to complete.
Conclusions
29.       The accomplishments of the Structural Adjustment Loan were
shortlived. Support for the stabilization and debt-refinancing programs and
progress in rationalizing public sector ttJriffs as well as improving the
incentive system for the mining and agricultural sectors eroded quickly in a
deteriorating political environment.  Even though virtually all the policy
measures envisaged at the outset had been put in place during the preparation
(initiated in 1979) and execution of the loan, there was no follow-up
adjustment to maintain their quality. As a result the SAL program did not
generate a discernible positive effect on the performance of the economy.
30.       Experience with this loan demonstrates clearly that no SAL can
survive intact unless there is not only a strong commitment from the
Government but also a political ability to carry out this commitment. After
the military coup in Bolivia, the Government remained committed to the
program but, given its hostile domestic and external reception, proved unable
to follow through. It should be noted that the President's Report had
pointed out the political risks facing the structural adjustment program
(paras. 55 and 56). At the time, however, there was reason to believe that
these risks were remote: the stabilization and structural adjustment
programs had been under discussion for almost a year before the Bank approved
the SAL; the initial economic measures which formed the basis for the program
had already been taken; and all political parties including that of the
former military President, supported the process.



- 50 -
31.       It should also be recalled that this was one of the Bank's first
SALs and that the operation had initially been conceived as a program loan.
The loan was by and large in response to measures already taken during its
preparation; the promotion of structural reforms was clearly limited to a
rationalization of the public investment program, mining taxation and
agricultural prices. Even within these limits, however, the focus was on the
appropriateness of policies during the execution of the loan rather than on
the introduction of definitive changes in the criteria for policy making or
in the decision making process itself. The loan was viewed as the first in a
series of structural adjustment loans in that it provided for a number of
studies designed to lay the basis for future structural improvements. In the-
event, the deterioration of Bolivia's political and economic situation not
only prevented the evolution of this process but also undermined such gains
as were made during the period of the SAL's preparation and execution.



!
Attachment 1
Page I of 5
- 5;1 -
LETTER ON DEVELOPMEtrr POLICIES
Dear Mr. HcNamara,
Bolivia is currently facing an economic crisis which has been
aggravated by delay in the adoption of corrective measures. The current
account deficit of the balance of paymencs in 1979 amounted to about
10.52 of GDP, compared to a surplus of about 6% in 1974. This deterioration
reflects a decline in export volumes, a rapid increase in imports, and
increased incerest payments resulting from che growth of external debt.
On the fiscal side, the rapid expansion in. public investment during .1975-78,
particularly in capital-incensive processing plants, and the decline in
the operating surpluses of the major public enterprises led to a severe
disequilibrium.  The overall balance of the public sector moved froE a small
surplus in 1974 to a deficit of about 10.5% of GDP in 1979. Real GDP growth,
which had averaged over 5.5% for the period 1970-77, amounted to only 3.3% and
2.1%, respectively, during 1978 and 1979. Ac the same time, the rate of
inflacion, as measured by the CDP deflator, accelerated from an average of
about 10% during 1975-77 to abouc 17% in 1978 and 19% in 1979.
2.        The Government of Bolivia has formulated an integrated economic
recovery program, of which important initial measures have already been eaken.
The program is aimed at (i) removing short-term domestic and extern.al imbalances,
and (ii) reducing or eliminating major structural problems which have affected
this country's economic growth performance over the past several years. The
main componencs of the program are the following:
(a) Economic and Financial Stabilization Program;
(b) Specific Measures for Export Promotion;
(c) Public Investment and Financing Program.
Economic -and Financial Stabilization Program
3.        On November 30, 1979, the Government took a series of economic
measures aimed at reducing che fiscal and balance of payments deficits.
One such measure was the replacement of the fixed exchange rate of
US$1=$b20 by a new exchange rate regime based on a managed float, set
initially ac US$1 = Sb25. This implied a depreciation of 25%. In the
future, the exchange value of che peso will be determined in relation to
the net international reserve position of the Central Bank and the relacion-
ship becween domestic and foreign costs. Another measure was the increase
of about 100%, on average, in the prices of petroleum derivacives sold in



Attachment 1
-52-                                Page 2 of 5
the domestic market.  This measure will not only improve the financial situation
of the public sector, but also help to dampen domestic demand for hydrocarbons,
thereby increasing the quantity available for cxport. The Govcrnment is willing
to consider the formulation of furcher action in this area. In the area of
monetary policy, we have eliminated dollar-denominated peso deposits, and have
restructured the system of interesc rares and legal reserve requirements to
encourage the growth of peso-denominated savings. The program also includes
ceilings on net domestic borrowing of che public sector from the banking syscem,
and on the magnitude of external borrowing of less than 10 years' maturity as
well as targets for the levels of international reserves.   These measures
formed the basis for an agreement with the IMF for a one-year stand-by arrange-
nent, which was approved by the IMF Board on February,1, 1980.
-4.        As a result of the rapid growth in external debt and the poor export
performance of the last several years, external debt service payments have
risen sharply in relation to exports. We are negoriating a debt refinancing
operation with a number of foreign commercial banks. Our objective is to
arrange for a refinancing loan of about US$200 million, which would be used to
repay some of the Central Bank and COMIBOL short- and medium-term loans.
Specific Measures for Export Promotion
5.        Bolivia's overall merchandise exports have experienced no real
growth between 1974 and 1979. To a large extent, this poor performance
has been the the consequence of an overvalued exchange rate, inappropriact
domestic pricing policies for hydrocarbons and agricultural products,
lack of specific incenc,ves for agricultural exports, and an inappropriate
structure of mineral taxation. It is the Government's intention to reverse
this tendency and to pursue policies that will foster che development of
exports in industries in which Bolivia can be an efficient producer. In
addition to the action already taken on.the exchange rate and hydrocarbons'
prices (discussed in para 3) and to the increased emphasis on export-
oriented projects in the public investment program (discussed in para 9),
the following specific measures for promoting exports have been adopted,
or are expected to be adopted in the near future. The two main objectives
of these measures are: (i) co allow exports to grow at about 6% per annum
in real terms over the period 1980-85, and (ii) to reduce the heavy reliance
on exports of tin from over 50Z of merchan';se exports in 1979 to about 33%
by 1985.
a. - Reform of Mineral Taxation
6.        Bolivia's main export seccor, mining, has been negatively affected
by a structure of taxation which discouraged exploration and development.
The Government has recently adopted a mineral tax reform which includes:
(i) the elimination of the export tax, (ii) the updacing of presumed costs,
and (iii) the establishment of an adjustment factor for presumed costs, based



Attachment 1
Page 3 of 5
on the floor price of the International Tin Council. In our opinion, these
measures initially provide sufficient incentives to che mining sector to
develop efficiently the mineral resources of Bolivia. The Governmenc considers
that further analysis of, and possible action on, the formula to update pre-
sumed costs, che provision of specific tax incentives and overall level of
mineral taxation are needed. It is our objective to increase investment and
production in the sector, and to increase the exports of the sector by at least
3.5% per annum in real terms becween 1980 and 1985.
b.   Agricultural Pricing and Marketing Policies
7.        Low domestic producer prices for several agricultural products with
export potential have been a major drawback to agriculture exports. To promote
production of commodities with the highest export and import substiturion
potential, the Government has significantly increased farm-gate prices for a
number of agricultual products, among others for beef, by about 55Z, for dairy
products by 62%, and for poultry by 25%. We recognize that further accion is
required. Most importantly, the action would refer to (i) an increase in the
farm-gate price for coffee and the gradual introduction of differential prices
taking quality into account; and (ii) the introduction of differencial pricing
for beef, with higher prices for better cuts. It is intended to gain experience
on a pilot basis before introducing differential prices on a national basis.
It is our objeccive to set prices so that they provide adequate incentives to
producers for export and we intend to adjust these prices as necessary co meet
this objective. In addition, the Government expects that the findings of the
Bank supported study would provide che framework for export promotion programs
and relevant institutional measures.
c.   Future Exports of Natural Gas
8.        One of the bright aspects of cur country's long-term export prospects
is the possible sale of large quantities of natural gas to neighbouring
countries. A program, parcly financed by che World Bank, is under preparation
to ascertain the magnitude of gas reserves. The Government intends to take
preparatory steps as early as possible to allow initiation of the construction
of a pipeline to export gas immediately after sufficient reserves have been
confirmed provided satisfactory agreement on the sale price has been arrived
at with prospective buyers such as Brazil and other countries.
Public Investment and Financing Program
9.        The Government has completed the preparation of a public investment
and financing program for the period 1980-83. The main objectives of che
program are: to give priority co produccive projects in agriculture, mining,
manufacturing and hydrocarbons, particularly to projects with export orienta-
tion; to complete ongoing priority projects before initiacing new ones; and to



Attachment 1
Page 4 of 5
- 54 -
maintain essential levels of investment in social and transport infrastructure
consistent with the necds of the country. We have prepared a revised and
significantly cut down priorty investment program which is now in line with
domestic and external financing availability. In the process, a number of
large projects have been eliminated from the program w}tile ochers have been
delayed or cut down in size.   We also expect that the feasibility reports
to be financed by the World Bank will help improve the quality of public
investment in the future, particularly in agriculture, mining and hydro-
carbons sectors through identification of high priority projects.
10.       On the financing side, we anticipate continued inflows of
external assistance, plan to maintain net domestic borrowing of the public
sector at levels consistent with our stabilization program, and intend to
.take further measures to improve public sector savings. Two such measures
for increasing savings are the following:
a.   Maintenance of Realistic Tariffs and Prices of Public Enterprises
11.       Recently the Government has increased the tariffs of ENDE by 30%,
of ENFE by 30% and of AASANA by 70%. Our policy is to set public sector
tariffs at levels that allow enterprises to earn reasonable rates of return
and that ensure a significant proportion of self-financing for investment. In
particular, the tariffs of ENDE will have to be increased significantly to
help finance the envisaged large investment program. We also plan to increase
hydrocarbon prices gradually in order to bring the domestic prices closer to
international prices.
b.   Control over the Expenditures and Borrowing of Public Enterorises
12.       In the area of controls over expenditures and borrowing, the
Government intends to strengthen its control, particularly of the major
public enterprises. Wage guidelines have been set in the context of the
stabilization program. To ensure that the level of programmed investment
is not exceeded, we intend to improve the information syscem for major public
enterprises and to strengthen the mechanism of control over these enterprises
through instructions based on generally accepted principles of public enter-
prise management, through Government representatives in the Board of Directors
of enterprises, and through strengthening, before August 31, 1980, of the
staff in the Ministry of Planning and Coordination. In this connection,
the proposed technical assistance of the World Bank and UNDP to help set
up an appropriate control system and train staff will prove useful. In
the area of controls on external borrowing, INDEF - the entity responsible
for external borrowing - has becn dissolved and all matters relating to
external borrowing have been passed on to the Central Bank. The control on
foreign borrowing of public enterprises has been extended to include loans
of maturity less than one year.



Attachment 1
Page 5 of 5
- 55 -
13.       While important and difficult measures have already been taken as
outlined, the process of economic recovery will probably take three to four
years and require further action. It is in the context of our program for
economic recovery that we consider World Bank support essential.
Yours sincerely,
signed
Adolfo Aramayo
Minister of Finance



Attachment 2
- 56 -                      Page 1 of 3
Loan Disbursement and Procurement
1.        The SAL was approved by the Bank's Executive Directors on June 5,
1980, and was signed on June 18, 1980.  It became effective on June 25, 1980
on the understanding that Congress, which was in recess, would ratify the
loan once it resumed business in August. The military officers who seized
power on July 18, 1980, however, suspended the constitution and closed
Congress. Subsequently, as a condition for releasing the loan's second
tranche, the Government issued several decrees (Decretos Leyes Nos. 17616 and
17768 of September 18 and November 6, 1980) and a legal opinion from the
Attorney General on November 12, 1980, ratifying the loan agreements.
2.        The SAL agreement provided for the loan to be split into two
tranches: the first was made available after loan effectiveness (US$25
million was disbursed on July 3, 1980); and the second was conditioned on the
outcome of a review to be held before August 31, 1980 to determine if the
Government was maintaining the program set out in the Letter on Development
Policies, and in particular, export competitiveness.l/ At the request of
the Garcia Meza Government, a Bank mission visited La Paz from August 14 to
27, 1980 to supervise the loan and determine eligibility for release of the
second tranche. It concluded that while progress had been slower than
expected in certain ares of the stabilization program, notably execution of
the public investment program, in most cases performance was satisfactory.
The mission recommended that the Bank condition release of the second tranche
on action in three areas: (i) increasing tariffs for major public
enterprises to improve their financial position; (ii) designing an action
program to ensure necessary funds were provided to high-priority projects in
the public investment program; and (iii) providing a formal endorsement of
the Letter on Development Policies and ratifying the loan documentation.
3.        The Bank informed the Government of these requirements.  On
September 24, 1980 it received a letter from the Minister of Finance
outlining the measures the Government had already taken under the SAL
program, and noting actions they intended to take in the future with regard
to tariffs and the investment program. These actions included increasing
tariffs for railways (ENFE), electricity (ENDE) and AASANA (airline
traffic). Subsequently the Bank requested, in addition, an increase in
hydrocarbon prices to which the Government agreed. The Government also
announced its intention to revise and readjust the investment program for
1981-83, taking into account the lags that occurred in 1980, and to adopt the
necessary measures to guarantee in the 1981-83 period the execution of at
least 75% of the investment program. Based on these commitments and the
1/ Section 5 of the Loan Agreement stated that as a condition of drawing
down the second tranche of the SAL, Bolivia had to have maintained -an
appropriate relation between domestic and external prices such as to ensure
the competitiveness of Bolivia exports".



Attachment 2
- 57 -                       Page 2 of 3
Government's compliance in clearing up legal questions concerning
ratification of the Loan Agreement which where setforth together with
declaration of effectiveness, the Bank authorized release of the second
tranche (US$23.7 million).
4.        The Bank's management notified the Executive Directors of the SAL's
status and the decision to release the second tranche on November 18, 1980
(SECM80-853). The disbursement was made on November 19, 1980. In Janaury
1981, the Government increased tariffs for hydrocarbons (60%), railways
(40%), and electricity (402). The Government revised its investment program,
and increased slightly the level of funding in real terms over 1980 levels.
5.        Counterpart Funds.  The loan funds, except for the US$1.3 million
in technical assistance, were made available to the Government for
reimbursing the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports, which covered
practically all goods except for a small negative list specified in the loan
agreement. Once eligible, the Government experienced no difficulties in
drawing down the loan. An account was established at the Central Bank to
receive the estimated b$1.2 billion in counterpart funds generated by the
SAL2/. The counterpart funds were fully allocated by mid-1981, to the
following sectors and projects:
2/ An an exchange rate of b$24.5/US$1.



Attachment 2
- 58 -                    Page 3 of 3
BOLIVIA: Use of Counterpart Funds of SAL I
($b. 000)
Amount
Transport Sector Study                                       11,100
ENFE Maintenance and Works                                 281,404
ENDE Investment Projects                                    85,785
Integrated Rural Education in the Altiplano                  17,327
Other Ministry of Education Projects                         10,000
Corpaguas-Water Supply                                        7,043
INFOL - Ulia Ulla                                           53,800
IDRA - Ingavi and Omasuyos Los Andes                        39,623
CONAVI - Sites and Services                                  32,875
SNC - Road Maintenance                                      48,230
BAMIN - Investment Projects                                  11,640
Corgepai - Abapo Izozog                                      21,745
Fondo Ganadero Beni                                          73,580
AASANA Investment Projects                                   45,414
FOMO Projects                                                13,100
BANVI Projects                                                2,600
GEOBOL Projects                                               9,816
Fondo Nacional de Exploracion                                20,349
Ministry of Planning Projects                                13,157
Central Bank - Renegotiation of Debt                         21,958
Amazon Region Development                                    12,255
AROS BENI Water Supply                                       10,000
HAM/BIRF                                                     15,926
COMIBOL Rehabilitation - Local Costs                         37,500
Treasury - Supported Investment Projects                   255,100
Ministry of Health Projects                                   3,100
Ministry of Labor Projects                                      200
TOTAL                                          1,193,637






