Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16991-ES
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$58.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR A
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
August 7, 1997
Human and Social Development Group
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Col6n
US$1.00 = 8.70 Colones
Fiscal Year                          Academic Year
I January - 31 December              15 January - 31 October
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACE         - Community Education Association (Asociacion Comunalpara la Educaci6n)
BEMP        - Basic Education Modernization Project
CAS         - Country Assistance Strategy
CDE         - School council (Consejo Directivo Escolar)
CONACORE - National Commission of Education (Comisi6n Nacional de Coordinaci6n Educativa)
CRA         - Learning resource center (Centro de Recursos de Aprendizaje)
EU          - European Union
EDUCO       - Community-managed Schools Program (Educaci6n con Participaci6n de la Comunidad)
FEPADE    - Business Foundation for Educational Development (Fundaci6n Empresarialpara el Desarrollo
Educativo)
FISDL       - Social Investment Fund for Local Development (Fondo de Inversi6n Social de Desarrollo Local)
FUNUASALVA Anti-drug Foundation of El Salvador (Fundaci6n Antidrogas de El Salvador)
FUSADES   - Salvadoran Foundation for Economic and Social Development (Fundaci6n Salvadoreinapara el
Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social)
GDP         - Gross domestic product
GOES        - Government of El Salvador
IBRD        - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR         - Implementation Completion Report
IDB         - Inter-American Development Bank
ITCA        - Central American Technological Institute (Instituto Tecnol6gico Centroamericano)
INSAFORP  - Salvadoran Institute for Professional Development (Instituto Salvadoreno de Formaci6n Profesional)
MINED       - Ministry of Education
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
MIS         - Management Information System
NAS         - National Assessment System
NGO         - Nongovernmental Organization
OECD        - Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OPCI        - Office of International Projects and Cooperation (Oficina de Proyectos y Cooperaci6n Internacional)
PMO         - Project Management Office
SABE        - Strengthening Achievement in Basic Education (Solidificaci6n del Alcance de la Educacion Basica)
UCA         - Universidad Centroamericana
UNDP        - United Nations Development Program
USAID       - United States Agency for International Development
Vice President       Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Task Manager        Maria Madalena R. dos Santos



EL SALVADOR
Secondary Education Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
BLOCK 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION ................................ 2
1.    PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT  OBJECTIVES  ..... ....  .... ............... .....  ....    ........................................................................................ PR.2
2.    PROJECT COMPONENTS ............................                                                                     .....3
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION ............ ....... 3
4.  INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ................................................ 4
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE ...............................................                                                             5
5. CAS OBJECTIVE(S) SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT.                                                                                          5
6. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY.                                                                                         6
7.  SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES.                                                                7
8.   PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION .........................................................................8 ...... 8
9.    MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES .................................. 8. ...... 8
10.  LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN .......................................................................... ........  . 9
11.  INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ............................................... 0
12.  VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT ............................................... 1
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS                                                           .1
13. ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT .............................11
14. FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT ............................                                                                                 12
15. TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT ............................ 12
16.   INSTITUTIONAL  ASSESSMENT  ...1.......2....  ..................................................................................................................................... 112
17.  SOCIAL ASSESSMENT .........................                                                                        ....13
18. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ............................                                                                             13
19. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH .............................13
20.  SUSTAINABILITY ........................ .... ........................................................................................................................ 14
21. CRITICAL RISKS .............................14
22. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS . ............................ 15
BLOCK 4: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS.16
23. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS.16
24.   OTHER.16
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ..........................................                                                     16
ANNEX 1:   PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY ...................................                                                           .  .. 17
ANNEA 2: PROJECT COMPONENTS .......................................... 24
ANNEX 3:   ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS .........................................                                                          33
ANNEX 4:   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ......................................... 34
ANNEX 5:  FINANCIAL SUMMARY .........................................                                                                 42
ANNEX 6: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT ......................................... 45
ANNEX 7:   PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .........................................                                        48
ANNEX 8:   PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE .........................................                                           54
ANNEX 9:   DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ......................................... 55
ANNEX 10: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS .56
ANNEX 11: EL SALVADOR AT A GLANCE .57






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LCSHD
Project Appraisal Document
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Date:            August 1, 1997                                       [] Draft    [xl Final
Task Manager:    Madalena dos Santos                    Country Manager: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Project ID:      ESL-41680                              Sector: Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan            PTI:  [x] Yes            [1   No
Project Financing Data                  [x] Loan    [] Credit  [] Guarantee   [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m: $58.0
Proposed Terms:                        []      Multicurrency   [x] Single currency
Grace period (years): 5           [       Standard       [ ] Fixed          [x] LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local           Foreign           Total
Government                                                  19.1              -              19.1
IBRD/IDA                                                   28.4             29.6             58.0
Borrower: Government of El Salvador (GOES)
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Education (MINED)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):           1998         1999          2000       2001      2002
Annual          7.5         18.5         17.0        9.0        6.0
Cumulative          7.5        26.0          43.0       52.0      58.0
Expected effectiveness date: December 30, 1997                  Closing date: June 30, 2003



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 2
Country El Salvador                                                          Project Title Secondary Education Reform
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
El Salvador has experienced a remarkable economic recovery since the signing of the peace accords in 1991, following
fifteen years of civil unrest. Economic growth has been impressive, averaging 6.7% per annum from 1991 to 1995.
Economic growth, however, slowed considerably in 1996, reflecting the end of the post-peace boom and structural
constraints. In order to accelerate growth, the GOES' strategy is to shift El Salvador's competitive base from low-cost
labor to high productivity. This will not be possible unless the education, skills and productivity of the labor force can be
considerably improved. Approximately two thirds of the Salvadoran labor force is considered unskilled. with an average
of 4.4 years of schooling. About one fourth of the labor force has no formal education, and only 12% have more than ten
years of schooling. The proposed project aims to increase coverage of secondary education and build on the successes
and new demands generated by the basic education reform process; and upgrade the quality of entrants to the labor
market to increase El Salvador's competitiveness in the global market.
The Ministry of Education (MINED) has focused primarily on reform of the basic education system (grades 1-9) to date.
Emphasis on increased access, especially in rural areas through the EDUCO (Community-managed Schools Program)
program, and decentralization and community participation in school management through community associations
(ACEs) and school councils (CDEs) has resulted in increased enrollment and higher completion rates at the basic
education level. Net enrollment rates increased from 79% to 88% between 1989 and 1995 and should reach 91% by
2000. The dropout rate decreased from 15.3% to 5.9%, and the average annual promotion rate has risen from 77% to
87% over the same period. Consequently, MINED is facing increased demand for secondary education. Inequitable
access, especially for rural areas, and high direct costs to students are both determinants of the present low coverage rate
(35% for both public and private schools) at the secondary level. In response to a projected increase of nearly 47% in
secondary school enrollments over the next ten years and a crucial need for more skilled workers in the labor force,
MINED has initiated a secondary education reform program. The project to be financed by the World Bank supports this
reform program.
The development objective of the rroposed project is to expand coverage with improved quality and efficiency of public
and private secondary schools. The project seeks to:
a. Expand coverage of secondary education, paying particular attention to students from low-income
backgrounds, by (i) establishing a scholarship program to assist poor fam;lies; (ii) expanding seconda.;
education to regions which currently do not have secondary schools through construction of new schools and
classrooms; and (iii) providing distance education programs.
b. Improve quality through (i) curriculum development, including curriculum revisions, provision of teaching
and learning materials, in-service training for teachers and directors, and innovative social formative
projects; (ii) establishment of learning resource centers (CRAs) to improve instruction through use of new
technology and audio-visual aids; (iii) rehabilitation of schools and equipment to support curriculum
developments; (iv) implementation of a national assessment system; and (v) establishment of a school
accreditation and supervision system to certify and monitor the academic and institutional performance of
public and private secondary schools.
c) Strengthen managerial capacity in secondary education, thus extending the substantial institutional reform
work within MINED carried out under the ongoing Basic Education Modernization Project, by (i)
modernizing management at the central and department levels, including design of management, human
resources, and financial mechanisms to support school-based management for secondary institutions; (ii)
training school councils (CDEs), and providing funds to be administered at the school level; and (iii)
fostering improved civil society understanding of and participation in the secondary education sector through
campaigns to increase public awareness of and support for the secondary education reform.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 3
Country El Salvador                                                          Project Title Secondary Educabon Reform
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                                  Categorv      Cost Incl.    % of
Contingencies  Total
(uS$m)
Expansion of Access:                                                   Physical              18.6   24.0
*  Establishment of a scholarship program for low-income students.                           3.4    4.0
*  Construction of classrooms, and provision of furniture and equipment.                     13.2   17.0
*  Expansion of current distance education programs for secondary                            2.0    3.0
education.
Quality Improvements:                                                  Physical             46.2   60.0
.  Curriculum development, including revision of current secondary                          13.9   18.0
education curriculum, provision of educational materials, books for
school libraries and laboratory equipment, teacher training, and
establishment of a program for innovative social formative projects.
*  Establishment of learning resource centers (CRAs), including school                       17.3  22.0
libraries and science laboratories.
.  Rehabilitation of schools and equipment to support curriculum                             13.5   18.0
improvements.
*  National assessment system.                                                                1.0    1.5
*  National school accreditation and supervision system.                                      0.5    0.5
Institutional Strengthening and Modernization:                        Institution             9.2   12.0
*  Management improvements at the central and department levels        building               1.3   2.0
including design of management, human resources, and financial
mechanisms to support school-based management for secondary
institutions.                                                                             5.7    7.0
* School-based management activities including training of school councils
(CDEs), and provision of funds to be administered at the school level.                    2.2    3.0
. Communication strategies and campaigns to increase public awareness
and support for the secondary education reform.
Project Administration                                               Management               3.1    4.0
Total: 77.1  100.0
3. Benefits and target population.
Benefits
* Higher incomes for students. In a country where the average member of the labor force has 4.4 years of education,
there are substantial rewards to secondary education. Secondary graduates have mean earnings which are 52%
higher than those of primary graduates. Regression analysis attributes a major proportion of this increment to
secondary education. An emerging graduate from secondary school commands a premium due to schooling,
estimated to be US$700 per year, and the differential widens by about US$19 with each additional year of
experience.
* Greater equity in access. Improved equity in access to secondary school will be achieved through construction and
expansion of schools, provision of distance education (in rural areas), and reduction of direct and opportunity costs of
education for low-income students through a targeted scholarship program.



Project Appralsal Document                                                                            Page 4
Country El Salvador                                                             Project Title Secondary Educaton Reform
*  Improved quality. Improved inputs -- including curriculum reform, teacher training, and learning resource centers --
will raise quality. In addition, new monitoring and regulation efforts will be implemented through school
accreditation and national evaluation systems. These will provide parents and students with objective information on
the educational standards and quality of all schools. It is expected that better information on quality and the
competition it induces will prove to be an especially strong force for improvement among inferior private schools.
*  Improved management efficiency. There will be a re-alignment of central ministry roles, greater delegation of
management to the local level, and clearer definition of oversight responsibilities for the center. This will reduce
central administrative overhead, while concentrating efforts on broader policy issues -- school finance and
curriculum improvement, including teacher training, and improved evaluation and monitoring capacity through
national assessment, accreditation and supervisory systems. At the school level, greater school autonomy and
improved parent participation should foster greater responsiveness and efficiency in school management. Stronger
community participation and oversight, clearer lines of authority (school autonomy) and better information on school
academic and financial performance will lead to improved accountability.
* Improved gender awareness. Curriculum reforms and teacher training programs will also provide new nongender
specific emphases. A gender-based information system will be established to monitor education trends by gender.
Efforts will be made to eliminate gender stereotypes in books, introduce career guidance programs, and include sex
education in curriculum development.
Target Population
The target population for this project is the growing number of basic education graduates (an estimated 21,000 new
students by 2001), many of these coming out of the EDUCO system, and students curnently enrolled in secondary
education schools (I 13,285). Special measures will be taken to target individuals from low-income backgrounds and
rural areas.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Five years (1998-2002)
Executing agencies:
* MINED will coordinate and monitor implementation of the different components of the project at the national and
departmental (state) levels. Within MINED the following units will be involved:
a. The National Directorate of Education will be responsible for the implementation of the quality
improvements component through its various administrative units.
b. The Management Modernization Unit will be responsible for coordinating the Modernization Management
component.
c. The Office of Projects and International Cooperation (OPCI) will be responsible for overall financial
management and accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements; the Administration Directorate,
together with OPCI, will manage the process of procurement of civil works, goods and services.
d. Each Ministry department will be responsible for project implementation under its own jurisdiction.
*  FISDL (Fundaci6n de Inversi6n Social de Desarrollo Local) will be responsible for rehabilitation of secondary
schools, while private contractors will be hired through a bidding process to construct the new schools.
*  UCA (Universidad Centroamericana), or another similar institution, will design and implement in-service training
programs for secondary school teachers and directors.
*  ITCA (Instituto Tecnoligico Centroamericano) will provide the technical assistance for the creation and
implementation of the resource learning centers (CRAs).
*  FEPADE (Fundaci6n Empresarialpara el Desarrollo Educativo) will be responsible for coordinating the
Scholarship Program.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 5
Country  El Salvador                                                       Project Title Secondary Education Reform
* CDEs will be responsible for local financial management and administration of schools.
* A selected procurement agent will support MINED in the implementation of the project.
Project oversight and policy setting: Overall responsibility for oversight of the proposed project would be vested in the
Minister of Education, who would be supported in general policy setting and institutional coordination by a committee
composed of the Vice Minister and directors of MINED's administrative units (CONACORE - Comisi6n Nacional de
Coordinaci6n Educativa).
Project coordination: This will be carried out within the existing organizational structure of MINED through the Project
Management Office, which coordinates the ongoing Basic Education Modernization Project (BEMP). This administrative
unit reports to the National Directorate of Education.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: OPCI currently has a system of accounting and financial
reporting that maintains records and accounts acceptable to the Bank. OPCI would maintain a consolidated account of
all resources and expenditures under the project. Other sets of records, --one each for all operating units and school
councils at the local level,-- would be maintained by each unit under supervision from the central level, and would reflect
the resources and expenditures related to project implementation for their respective programs. Data from secondary
education institutions would be sent to OPCI for consolidation purposes. These accounts would be audited annually by
private independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. OPCI will submit to the Bank, no later than six months after the
end of each calendar year, a certified copy of the agreed audit reports.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Project implementation will be closely monitored by the Project Management
Office. In addition, monitoring will be performed through (a) monthly meetings of CONACORE; (b) World Bank
supervision missions with intensive implementation support, particularly in year one; (c) yearly progress reviews of the
annual project implementation plan to be conducted by MINED in coordination with the Bank; (d) a comprehensive mid-
term review to be carried out no later than thirty months after loan effectiveness; (e) beneficiary surveys and other
assessment instruments; and (f) an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be prepared jointly by GOES and the
World Bank no later than six months after the closing date of the project. A set of monitoring indicators agreed with the
GOES is reflected in Annex 1.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project:  CAS Report No. 16307, February 19, 1997
The 1994 Poverty Assessment (Report No. 12315-ES) noted the lack of access by poor students to secondary education.
However, as indicated in the 1993 CAS (Report No. P-6108-ES, Part I) and in line with the assessment's
recommendation, the GOES' priority appropriately focused on rehabilitating the basic education system, especiall) in
rural areas. Its key program was EDUCO supported by two Bank loans. As the GOES' basic education reforms
progressed, however, there was a growing sense that the education strategy would need to increase its scope to include a
focus on secondary education, both to make room for the expansion in primary enrollments and as a key component of
the GOES' globalization strategy. The Bank's 1995 Country Economic Memorandum ("Meeting the Challenge of
Globalization, CEM and Private Sector Assessment;" Report No. 14109-ES) noted that although labor markets were
flexible, the lack of skilled workers and low labor productivity would be bottlenecks to accelerate growth. The 1996
gender study ("El Salvador, Moving to a Gender Approach: Issues and Recommendations," Report No. 14407-ES)
pointed out that while El Salvador has advanced significantly toward gender-balanced educational attainment, it was
socioeconomic background and place of residence that influenced education to the greatest extent. This shows that
education policy in the country needs to address economic conditions in addition to societal perceptions on female roles.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 6
Country. El Salvador                                                       Project Title Secondary Educaton Reform
In termns of coverage, the Bank's 1997 Rural Development Study (Report No. 16253-ES) pointed out the extremely low
coverage of secondary education in rural areas. In light of these concerns, the recent CAS (Report No. 16307-ES;
(discussed on March 6, 1997) states that education will remain a priority in the Bank's assistance strategy. While
maintaining support for basic education through the ongoing project, the CAS proposes to broaden the Bank's support by
focusing on improving and decentralizing secondary education. This project is in direct response to the CAS.
6. Main sector issues and government strategy:
The severe economic crisis of the 1980's, followed by a drastic fall in real per capita income and in government
expenditures in education, an earthquake, and a civil war, have severely impacted the performance of the education
sector in El Salvador. In 1989, GOES initiated policy reforms aimed at rehabilitating the public sector's capacity to
manage and deliver social services, including education. Over the last six years, the political and economic policies put
into effect by GOES have placed the country on a path of positive growth of GDP and have laid the foundation for
sustained growth. In that context, during the last and current administration, MINED began to address the problems of
the education system through a number of sectoral reforms. However, to cope with the increased demand for a skilled
and more sophisticated labor force, and the success of the basic education reformn, GOES sees a pressing need to improve
education opportunities at the secondary school level.
The principal sector issues are documented in government and Bank studies conducted over the past few years (see
Annex 9). The main sector issues are: low coverage, poor quality and inequities, both in access to and quality of
secondary schools, management inefficiencies and inadequate levels of financing.
a. Low coverage and inequity. Secondary school enrollment rates are low relative to those in countries with
similar levels of development. Only 29% of the 15- to 19-year old population (net enrollment for public and
private schools) was enrolled in secondary education in 1996, while the average enrollment in grades 10 to 12 in
Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) is 54.8% and in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) countries, it is 96%. In addition, secondary education services are concentrated in urban
areas, especially in San Salvador. This includes 90% of all public and 98% of private secondary schools, thereby
excluding students living in rural areas. On the demand side, lack of financial resources also contributes to low
enrollment rates. Results from the July 1996 Household Survey show that among those 15- to 19-year olds not
enrolled in school, some 37% had to work, and 13% said that school "cost too much." Both public and private
secondary schools charge school fees. (Direct cost of schooling amounts to over US$229 per year in public
schools, US$446 in private non-religious schools, and US$515 in private religious schools. Average per capita
income in El Salvador is US$1,750 per year.) Household incomes of students enrolled in secondary school are
82% higher than household incomes of their counterparts who are not in school.
b. Low guality. Both public and private schools demonstrate low quality, as reflected in the results of student
achievement tests conducted for third-year secondary students in an analysis done for the Secondary Education
Study (Universidad Don Bosco, 1996. Resultados de la Prueba de Logros Acaddmicos). Scores on language and
mathematics tests were extremely low for both public and private school students, averaging 48% for language
and 45% for mathematics. In addition, there are no adequate school accreditation and quality control
mechanisms for secondary education programs in private schools.
c. Inadequate financing and management inefficiencies. Despite increases in public spending in education in
recent years (from 1.6% of GDP in 1988 to 2.0% of GDP in 1996) the level of public expenditure in education is
still low. This indicates a severe underinvestment in human capital by GOES. Obviously, public spending tells
only part of the story, especially in a country with significant community involvement and strong private sector
participation. For instance, nearly half of secondary education is delivered by the private sector.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 7
Country El Salvador                                                             Project Title Secondary Educabon Reform
A better definition of the roles of private and public sectors in the delivery of education services is urgently
needed so as to permit a better allocation of existing public resources. The establishment of a system of national
examination and accreditation in secondary education is one example of a vital service to be provided by the
public sector to enable a more efficient delivery of education by the private sector. The sector does not have
major inefficiencies of resource allocation across sub-sectors. However, within sub-sectors there are severe
imbalances. Presently more than 90% of sector recurrent expenditures are for salaries, leaving little for learning
materials, maintenance, and other less fixed but equally important categories. There are also serious equity
issues in resource allocation. Expenditures in secondary education have a significant urban bias, with nearly half
of the resources being spent in the Department of San Salvador, which has less than one-third of the secondary
school enrollment.
While MINED has focused on local level participation and decentralization in basic education (EDUCO), at
the secondary level the educational system remains highly centralized and unresponsive to local school needs.
Selected secondary schools have only recently started establishing school councils (CDEs) to exercise local
management. However, there is a lack of planning instruments and management and financial mechanisms to
support school-based management.
MlNED's strategy for secondary education reform has been articulated in the ten-year education plan and is in line with
the GOES' overall development plan. Specifically, the MINED strategy focuses on improvement of academic skills and
capabilities of secondary school graduates in order to respond to the dynamic changes of the labor market. This will be
accomplished, in part, by reforming the curriculum to respond to labor market requirements and allow for continued
studies at higher levels. In addition, a scholarship program will provide greater access to low-income students.
Improved efficiency of the secondary education system will be enhanced by a deepening of the ongoing process of
decentralization through financial transfers and budget control to CDEs and increased community participation, as well
as strengthening of planning and management skills at the central and decentralized levels.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Coverage:
*  Scholarships for low income students to encourage school enrollment will be financed.
*  School construction will target areas where secondary education is not currently provided.
*  Distance education programs will reach over-age students and those living in remote rural areas.
Quality:
*  The curriculum will be revised to give students stronger math, science and language skills.
* The establishment of learning resource centers (CRAs) will support the learning teaching process and will promote
the use of new technology, including computer-assisted instruction.
*  Ongoing in-service teacher training with follow-up will be provided through model schools.
* A national assessment system will test for learning performance and monitor the quality of education offered at the
secondary level.
*  A national accreditation and supervisory system will monitor the quality of services provided by public and private
schools.
Management ofsecondary education:
* Institutional strengthening and modernization will include decentralization of school management to local CDEs and
teacher support through local model schools.
*  Increased participation of the private sector, schools and local communities, and departmental levels of government
will be supported.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 8
Country El Salvador                                                          Project rTfle Secondary Education Reform
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection;
Project scope: Initially, the GOES proposed a project that included both technical-vocational and general academic
education. It was decided that the Bank would focus support instead only on general education, for several reasons
First, the main thrust of secondary education reform is to build flexible and "fungible" skills among labor market
entrants who will face a rapidly changing technological environment. Second, the share of enrollment in vocational and
technical programs is expected to decrease under the new curriculum design, where vocational training is concentrated in
the third year and has become a post-secondary option. Third, private rate of return analysis of academic and vocational
streams in El Salvador shows that the returns to academic education are twice as high as those to vocational education.
Finally, the European Union and the Banco Centroamericano de Integraci6n Econ6mica have already agreed to provide
some support for technical and vocational education.
Public vs. private secondary education: Considerable discussion has been given to determine the best strategy for target
schools. Initially it was thought that the project should increase coverage through the expansion of public schools only.
However, considering the key role of private schools in the provision of secondary education (52% of total secondary
enrollment), the decision was made to include private secondary schools as a cost-effective measure for increasing the
number of secondary school places available for low-income students through scholarships and partnership arrangements
with MINED. Quality improvements such as teacher training and curriculum programs will also be made available to
private schools.
Scholarship programs vs. student loans: The option of establishing a student loan scheme was considered. However, a
scholarship program was favored due to the high cost of administering student loans, together with low success rates in
loan collection in similar programs in other countries (see Section 10).
Best use ofphysical and human resources: The option of providing project resources ror smaller rural schools was
considered. However, it was decided to focus resources on larger institutions (institutos) to maximize economies of
scale. In addition, to improve access to secondary education in the rural areas, it was decided to expand the current
distance education modalities as a more cost effective way to attend to the specific needs of the student population in
these areas.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned).
Latest Form 590
Sector issue                                  Project                     Ratings
(Bank-financed
projects wily)
Bank-financed                                                                              IP      DO
Low coverage of basic education in the rural areas  Social Sector Rehabilitation Project (3348-  HS  S
and inadequate quality of service delivery.     ES). Closed in September 1996. Project
completed with highly satisfactory results
in the education component.
Low coverage and internal efficiency of basic   Basic Education Modernization Project     HS       HS
education, weak managerial and administrative   (3945-ES) (co-financed with IDB);
capacity, and low sector financing.             ongoing.
Poor major administrative systems for service   Technical Assistance Project (3648-ES).    sS
delivery in the public sector, including those of sector  Closed in September 1996.
ministries.                                     Public Sector Modernization TAL (4082-
ES); ongoing.                              S       S



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 9
Country El Salvador                                                          Project Ttle Secondary Educaton Reform
Other development agencies                                                                             1
Limited technology skills and knowledge of students Education Technology Project, IDB; under
in basic education.                             preparation.
Insufficient technical-vocational education programs. European Union; under preparation.
Banco Centroamericano de Integracifn
Econ6mica; under preparation
Lack of funds to attend secondary schools among  FEPADE's scholarship program for
low-income students.                            secondary education financed by a loan
from the Central Bank; ongoing.
Need for curriculum reform and institutional    Strengthening of Basic Education (SABE),
modernization.                                  USAID - Academy for Educational
Development; ongoing.
Insufficient health, nutrition and basic education  Social Investment Fund, IDB; ongoing.
services in the poorest areas, including infrastructure
needs for both health and education.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Community participation: Successful implementation of parent-run ACEs, through the EDUCO model at the basic
education level, has demonstrated the positive outcomes of strong community participation in education service detivery.
When schools are managed by parent councils, and teachers and parents share responsibilities, accountability increases at
all levels. In addition, funds raised by the school councils and community associations contribute to improve education
services. The institutional strengthening and modernization component of the proposed project stresses decentralization
to the local level to enhance the capacity of the school councils (CDEs) to support school-based management.
Institutional strengthening: Other projects in Latin America have shown that adequate institutional capacity and an
appropriate policy framework are key factors in determining the success of a project. Under the proposed project,
emphasis will be placed on strengthening MINED's capacity to evaluate and monitor the quality of secondary education
at the student, staff, and school levels, and make sound policy decisions in line with findings. MINED will also work on
improving communications with departmental and local personnel to enhance the decentralization process.
Subsidy programs for low-income students: Although no impact evaluation has been carried out to date, Panama has
successfully implemented a scholarship program for primary and lower secondary students. Low-income students in
rural areas receive direct subsidies to cover school costs. The government of Panama has achieved efficient mechanisms
for transferring funds from the central to local levels. On the other hand, in Jamaica, a student loan program was rated
unsuccessful because of difficulties in loan collection procedures and poor management and targeting of beneficiaries.
The proposed project has included a scholarship program to subsidize costs for low-income secondary students.
FEPADE, the agency selected by MINED to implement this program, has significant experience administering
scholarship funds for higher education students and for the last year has been implementing a pilot program with GOES
financial resources for secondary students. Careful attention will be given to selection criteria and management issues.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 10
Country El Salvador                                                          Project Title Secondary Educaton Reform
Role of the private sector: Studies show that participation of the private sector improves the use of resources, increases
total resources available, and provides better linkages of human capital development to labor market needs. Under the
proposed project, private sector participation will be encouraged.
Simple project design andflexibility: Simplicity and flexibility in the design of a project supports successful
implementation. Components of the proposed project focus on selected interventions in three areas: coverage, quality
and institutional strengthening. A flexible design will permit adjustments during implementation.
Borrower 's ownership and stakeholders 'participation: Borrower's ownership and stakeholder participation are key
elements to the sustainability of projects. MINED staff members and school directors have been fully involved in
defining the scope and content of the proposed project, and ensuring that objectives and corresponding activities are well
defined and implementation is feasible. In addition, the project preparation process has included the participation of the
major stakeholders involved in the provision of secondary education and their recommendations are being addressed by
the project (see Annex 6, Social Assessment).
Lessons from EDUCO: Six years of experience with the EDUCO program has had a significant impact on the learning
curve for this project. Many of the same actors who were instrumental in the implementation of an earlier project will be
involved in the proposed project, including MINED staff, teachers, administrators, supervisors, departmental personnel,
and the local community. A number of the lessons learned from EDUCO are reflected in the design of the project: they
relate to decentralization, the role of community involvement, supervision models, and the linking of administrative
systems (financial management, management infonnation systems (MIS), human resource management, internal audit
and control, and evaluation systems).
Innovative School Projects: The school-based Education Improvement Project (PME) program is one of the most
successful and innovative components of Chile's MECE projects. PMEs are submitted to the government by individual
schools and are funded on a competitive basis. The PMEs provide an opportunity for substantive decentralization, giving
teachers and principals the autonomy to decide how best to improve education quality in their schools. An initial partial
review of the program demonstrates increased educational leadership among teachers and principals, greater
communication within the school and with the community, and improvements in teaching practices. A similar program
was designed in Paraguay following the Chile model, and has been highly successful in its first year of implementation.
The proposed project for El Salvador will include a similar program for innovative social formative projects.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
MINED has initiated several of the project components mentioned above in its current reform of secondary education:
* Ministerial leadership within MINED has continued on its reform path for some six years, has provided careful
documentation of planned initiatives in its ten-year plan, and has conducted these reforms in a logical and sequontial
manner. Recently, MINED requested an evaluation of its education reform, which was conducted by external
evaluators from different countries within and outside the region. Their recommendations have been incorporated by
MINED in the preparation of the proposed project.
* The Ministries of Finance and Education, together with INSAFORP (Instituto Salvadorefno de Formaci6n
Profesional), are discussing measures to shift part of the financial incentives provided by the private sector, currently
devoted to non-formal education training programs, to support selected programs at secondary schools as part o[the
strategy for preparing a better skilled labor force.
* MINED has initiated in-service training programs for secondary education teachers. The Universidad
Centroamericana is responsible for the design and implementation of the program.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page II
Country El Salvador                                                          Project Title Secondary Education Reform
*  A pilot scholarship program for low-income students provides experience with targeting and operating mechanisms
in the provision of scholarships for secondary students (see Annex 2for a detailed description). FEPADE is
responsible for coordinating the program, and an evaluation of the program will be provided at the end of the 1997
school year. FEPADE was selected because of its experience in the coordination of the post-secondary technical
vocational scholarship program.
. Use of new technology and computer-assisted instruction has been piloted. The introduction of computers for
instruction together with a revised curriculum has received special attention by the technical group at the National
Directorate of Education. Staff members have visited other countries with relevant experience (Australia, Costa
Rica, Mexico, and New Zealand) and several foreign specialists have visited El Salvador to share experiences in the
use of computer-assisted instruction to enhance the curriculum reform. MINED has also been taking advantage of
the development of external funding opportunities (Banco Centroamericano de Integraci6n Econ6mica) and local
initiatives (directors and CDEs that have raised funds to set up computer labs in their schools) to learn from initial
experiences in the field. ITCA has demonstrated six years of experience in the development of learning resource
centers which include libraries, computers and audiovisual equipment, and materials for students and teachers.
ITCA will support MINED in the development and implementation of the CRAs for the proposed project.
12. Value added of Bank support:
. The Bank has a long-standing commitment to provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Education. A
collaborative approach to the design of projects and their implementation with MINED has resulted in increased
dialogue and cooperation at many institutional levels in-country and has contributed to a growing feeling of trust and
respect between MINED personnel and Bank team members.
. The Bank has carried out extensive sector work in secondary education in El Salvador and is knowledgeable about
the sector issues. In this process, the local nongovernmental organization (NGO) and university communities have
been engaged thoroughly, and this has strengthened analytical capabilities in the sector.
* Members of the Bank's Central America education team are available to contribute cross-country knowledge and
experience in the conceptualization and implementation of the different facets of the project.
. The Bank's involvement in the project has encouraged participation of other donors (IDB, European Union, GTZ,
KfW) and helped mobilize additional sources of financing.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the Project File)
13. Economic Assessment (see Annex 4)       Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$260.6 million; IRR=19% (Sucial)
The measurement of economic benefits is feasible for the first two components of the project, namely the expansion of
secondary schooling and the improvement in quality of secondary education, which together account for 85% of the total
project cost. The exclusion of the institutional strengthening component and the exclusion of positive externalities
associated with education imply that the rate of return presented here is a lower bound. The economic benefits from
increased access have been computed from a multivariate regression analysis of labor earnings of individuals. The
projections have been based on a careful cohort wise analysis which accounts for the combined impact of schooling and
experience on the accumulation of human capital. The benefits of improvement in school quality have been measured in
terms of proportionate increases in the premiums received by secondary school graduates in the labor market. Costs
include project costs as well as direct and opportunity costs borne by students. The analysis checks for the robustness of
the results to the assumptions used in the estimation, and concludes that the project will be economically beneficial as
well as equitable.



Project Appraisal Documenft                                                                    Page 12
Country El Salvador                                                        Project Title. Secondafy Educabon Refbrm
14. Financial Assessment (see Anntex 5)
The fiscal burden of the project is manageable. The total cost of the project amounts to less than 2% of the estimated
education sector expenditures during the implementation phase, and to 0.1% afterwards. These estimates are based on
conservative growth scenarios both for GDP and public expenditures in education. Proposed expenditures under the
project are budgeted to be predominantly investment expenditures rather than incremental recurrent costs.
Approximately $66 million or 86% of project costs are for investments while $10 million are slated for incremental
recurrent costs. This ensures, first, that project funds will supplement available resources and activities in the sector, and
second, the likelihood that the MINED will sustain recurrent expenditures generated by the project after the
implementation period.
The net present value (NPV) of GOES coparticipation in the project, and repayment of loan with interest and commitnent
charges is estimated to be US$27.3 million and US$39.7 million, respectively. The NPV of project-generated taxes is
estimated at US$13.2 million. Applying a deadweight loss parameter of 20%, the resulting NPV of the fiscal impact of
the project is estimated at US$64.4 million. This is a conservative upper bound estimate of increased fiscal revenues due
to higher earnings and consumption of secondary school graduates because it was not possible to estimate additional tax
revenues from indirect taxes such as the value added tax or import duties.
15. Technical Assessment:
The project takes into consideration the context of the current educational system and the government sector strategies,
and provides appropriate technical responses. The most important issues of access, equity, and quality are addressed
through project components intended to have an impact on both public and private secondary schools. Project
preparation has benefited greatly from the Secondary Education Study (FY98) carried out by the World Bank, as well as
the incorporation of successful technical and administrative practices within El Salvador (EDUCO, ACEs, CDEs and
ITCA's learning resource centers), and international experiences (e.g. Argentina, Chile and Paraguay Secondary
Education Projects, Computer Learning experiences in Chile and Costa Rica, the Telesecundaria experience in Mexico,
and school-based management experiences of Australia and New Zealand).
16. Institutional Assessment:
Executing agencies: In previous Bank-financed projects (SSRP - Loan 3348-ES, and Basic Education Project - Loan
3948-ES), MINED has demonstrated high implementation capacity and commitment in delivering the education reform
program. The probability of success of this project has been strengthened by the partnership approach between the public
and private sectors adopted by MINED. Under MTNED supervision, several components of the project will be carried out
through contracts with NGOs (Fundaci6n Empresarial para el Desarrollo Educativo (FEPADE), Fondo de Inversi6n
Social y Desarrollo Local (FISDL), the Universidad Centro Americana ( UCA), the Instituto Centroamericano (ITC e),
and others). These agencies have demonstrated the capacity to offer good services and implement the selected activities
in a timely fashion. To date, more than 70% of the secondary schools (institutos) already have Consejos Directivos
Escolares (CDEs) to support implementation at the school level and the rest will have CDEs by the end of the 1997
school year. At the central level, the CONACORE - composed of the Minister, Vice Minister and directors of MINED's
line units - has already demonstrated its role in augmenting MINED' s institutional capacity for policy decision making
and management. Finally, OPCI (Oficina de Coordinaci6n de Proyectos Internacionales) is being restructured und4r the
Basic Education Project to handle selected procurement activities and all the project's financial and accounting processes,
together with the Administration Directorate of MINED.
Project management. The Project Management Office (PMO) established for the Basic Modernization Education Project
(currently being implemented) will support project coordination which rests with the National Directorate of Education.
Project management and implementation should continue to improve for the proposed project, building on the
accumulated experience and success of the National Directorate of Education, OPCI and the Administrative Directorate
in implementing earlier projects.



PrjectApisal Document                                                                          Page 13
Country El Salvador                                                        Prject Tite. Secondary Education Reform
17. Social Assessment: (see Annex 6)
Results of the social assessment showed that in order to supply the education demand and needs of the poorest children, it
is important to integrate coverage and quality policies. For example, construction of additional schools, even if
geographically closer to students, would not resolve access issues because students still would need to work. On the other
hand, policies to improve quality without creating opportunities for access would only benefit those already enrolled.
Actions to increase access should be flexible enough to attend to the diversity of poor students' needs: distance education
for those who require the income generated from a full-time job; and scholarships for those who lack financial resources
for fees, books and transportation. However, this will not be enough if a different type of school does not emerge. This
new school should be efficient and effective in preparing students for work or higher studies. Secondary students should
have access to school libraries and science laboratories. They need a new curriculum in line with the changing demands
of the labor market. They need teachers more familiar with new technologies.
The social assessment also noted a disturbing gender bias among students, early and deliberate pregnancies, adolescent
gangs, and an anomic attitude among those whose parents emigrated to the United States. Although addressing these
issues is often beyond the reach of the education system, the social assessment recommends that MINED take the lead on
gaining a serious and non-judgmental understanding of the youth culture in El Salvador. The involvement of young
people in the education system is crucial if remedies are to be sought and found. These issues will be addressed with the
innovative social formative projects.
18. Environmental Assessment:      Environmental Category     [I A       [  B       [xI C
Clearance has been given for this category.
19. Participatory Approach:           I                            Immentation          Qpcra1orn
Beneficiaries/community groups     CDEs: (CON, COL)            CDEs: (CON, COL)   CDEs: (CON, COL)
Intermediary NGOs                  FEPADE, FISDL: (IS)         FEPADE, FISDL,      FEPADE,
FUSADES,            FUSADES,
FUNDASALVA: (IS,  FUNDASALVA,
CON, COL)           FISDL: (IS, CON,
COL)
Academic institutions              UCA, Don Bosco University:  UCA, Don Bosco: (IS  UCA, Don Bosco:
(IS, CON, COL)             CON, COL)            (IS CON, COL)
Local government                   Departments: (CON)          Departments: (COL)   Departments: (COL)
Other donors                       IDB, USAID, European Union, IDB, European Union: IDB, European
GTZ: (IS)                  (IS)                 Union: (IS)
Note: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; and COL = collaboration
The design and preparation of the project have been participatory from the onset. MINED personnel have been involved
in defining the components and implementation activities, and universities, the Teachers' Union, public and private
secondary school directors, and FEPADE (an NGO involved in a scholarship pilot) have been included in the consultation
process. In addition, the project was discussed by ministry and Bank officials with the Education Commission of the
Legislative Assembly before completing the final evaluation. Close collaboration has been maintained with other donor
agencies to encourage their participation and assist in mobilizing additional sources of financing to ensure success of the
project, and to avoid duplication of efforts.
Qualitative and quantitative instruments have been used to consult with teachers, youngsters (both attending and not
attending secondary schools), and parents. The consultation process complements the household survey by providing in-



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 14
Country El Savador                                                               Project Title Secondary Educaton Reform
depth information about reasons for not attending secondary school and for dropout, evaluations of schools and teachers,
and information about the relationship between school and work. This has made the component "Expansion of Access"
more responsive to the needs of the beneficiaries.
20. Sustainability:
Financial. In the narrow sense of internal financing, project sustainability is enhanced by measures introduced to
increase project cost sharing with students and private schools. For example, the cost of learning materials will be largely
passed on to students. A portion of the project's incremental costs will be covered by student fees. The project's fiscal
impact has been demonstrated elsewhere to be manageable. Sector fiscal sustainability is enhanced by net taxes with a
present value in the order of US$13.2 million estimated to be generated by the project.
Institutional. The institutional sustainability of the project will be guaranteed by the management mechanisms adopted
by the project. The school councils (CDEs) composed of teachers, parents, and students will be a key factor to sustainable
and effective secondary education programs. Sustainability will also be reinforced by the technical assistance provided
by the project to the CDEs for developing and implementing workable and cost-effective school plans. The involvement
of the project's beneficiaries since the earlier stages of project preparation will ensure their ownership and commitment to
the reforms on secondary education.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                        Risk Rating              Risk Minimization Measure
Lack of public funds to increase expenditures in  Moderate      The fiscal burden of the project is manageable
secondary education.                                            and could be further reduced by (a) cost recovery
for learning materials (from students), (b)
reduction of number of students covered bv the
scholarship programs, and (c) increases by CDEs
in financial contributions to support project
targets.
Low family income which may continue to          Moderate       Direct subsidy to the demand-driven strategy
constrain secondary enrollments.                                adopted by the project would reduce direct costs
to students of secondary education. Specific
criteria for targeting have been developed as well
as mechanisms to evaluate targeting and value of
scholarships.
Problems with scholarship program, including     Moderate       Scholarship program will be carefully monitored
allocation of scholarships to better-off students              and audited annually. FEPADE has significant
and/or to students already enrolled.                            experience in administering scholarship
programs.
Inability to convince all key stakeholders,         Low         Risks are mitigated by ongoing dialogue with
including teachers and private sector of need and              major stakeholders.
value of national accreditation and evaluation
systems.
Loss of political consensus (congressional       Moderate      The Bank and MINED have maintained
representatives, teachers' union, school directors,             permanent dialogue with stakeholders, to build



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 15
Country El Salvador                                                             Project Title Secondary Education Reform
parents, students) and support for the secondary                consensus to carry the reform program through
education reform and project objectives.                       the next electoral cycle. There is general
agreement on soundness of the government
education policies across political lines.
Project components to outputs
Risk                        Risk Rating              Risk Minimization Measure
Limited private sector participation and lack of    Low        Public awareness campaigns and ongoing policy
appropriate incentives.                                        dialogue with the private sector and the 2021
Club.
Potential problems in contracting of infrastructure  Moderate  Assessment done during project preparation
works.                                                          identified several NGOs and private contractors
able to carry out school infrastructure work. The
project contemplates different modalities for
contracting infrastructure services if FISDL is
unable to provide the services in a timely and
adequate manner.
Potential conflict as the results of the testing for  Low       MINED will host workshops and public
student learning performance (NAS) are                         campaigns.
publicized.
Overall project risk rating
Risk                        Risk Rating
Moderate      Risks are mitigated by MINED's continued
commitment to the education reform process over
the last six years and careful implementation of
the reform program in a logical and sequential
manner. Close Bank and country policy dialogue
with both MINED and the Ministry of Finance
will minimize project risk.
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Although the GOES is committed to improving the quality of the existing technical or vocational tracks at the secondary
level, it remains undecided about the extent of expansion of these programs. The current strategy has made technical and
vocational education the focus of a third year of study at the secondary level (in addition to the two required years) and as
a post-secondary option. Public support for technical and vocational education remains high and parents want technical
and vocational education to improve their children's ability to get skilled work. Although the outcome of GOES'
decision will not directly affect the project (which is supporting general academic tracks), the results could be
controversial and thus indirectly could affect support for overall reform efforts.
The publication of the results of the NAS and accreditation systems may cause potential conflicts. Teachers and
administrators from schools with low student achievement may not support the reform process. Furthermore, although it
is required by law, owners of private schools may seek ways to circumvent the system



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 16
Country El Salvador                                                          Project Tite Secondary Educaton Refonn
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions
MINED will approve a Project Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank, including an Operations Annex (OA), that
will specify the implementation agreements made with procurement agents (FISDL, UNDP, and others) and with other
institutions to receive transferred funds; the OA will establish financial and disbursement procedures for each agent.
MINED will enter into a procurement agreement with an entity satisfactory to the Bank.
The Ministry of Finance will establish a Revolving Fund in national currency, to be managed by MINED, with an initial
deposit of US$800,000 to cover the start-up costs for project implementation.
MINED will present a signed agreement with FISDL or another agent providing for respective obligations in the
implementation of the infrastructure rehabilitation component for funds allocated to such component.
MINED will present a signed agreement with FEPADE, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, providing
the respective obligations, action plan and disbursement arrangements for the implementation of the Scholarship Program.
MINED will present a signed implementation arrangement with ITCA. under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, providing for the technical assistance to create and implement the resource learning centers (CRAs).
MINED will present a signed agreement with the Universidad Centroamericana (UCA) or another similar institution, to
provide for training of secondary school teachers and directors.
MINED will approve a manual for the Scholarship Program, including eligibility criteria and administrative
arrangements, which will be satisfactory to the Bank.
24. Other
Counterpart Funding. It was agreed during negotiations that the GOES will make available to MINED each calendar
year of Project implementation the minimum amounts of counterpart funds set forth in the Implementation Letter.
Monitoring, Review, and Reporting. MINED will provide assurance that it will (a) conduct annual project
implementation reviews by August of each year, beginning in 1999: and (b) by the same date each year, beginning in
1999, submit to the Bank an annual progress report on the implementation of the project in accordance with targets
established in previous annual work and investment plans, including the proposed budgetary requirements for project
implementation during the subsequent year.
MINED will present the results of an evaluation of the scholarship pilot program implemented by FEPADE by June 1998.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Tas Manager: Madale a dos Santos                    Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 17
Country El Salvador                                                             Project Title Secondary Educabon Reforn
Annex 1
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators'  Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions
CAS Objectives                                                                      (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
1. Augment the educated and   Increased number of skilled    Project Monitoring Reports  Shared consensus on
skilled labor force through  labor force                                            broad development
expansion of secondary                                                               objectives is achieved
education and provision of a
more relevant curriculum
2. Modernize public sector   Central government          Project Monitoring Reports  Continued increases are
institutions (MINED) by      functioning as normative and                           made in sector's budget
emphasizing decentralized    regulatory instance and                                 allocation in line with
management, encouraging      decentralized levels, school-                           Government target (to
private sector-led growth and   based management                                     increase education share
altering public/private roles    implemented                                         of public expenditures
and participation                                                                   by 50% by 1999)
Linkage of sector
institutional reforms to
government-wide public
sector reforms is made
Project Development                                                                 (Development
Objectives                                                                          Objectives to CAS
Objective)
Expand coverage with         Gross enrollment rate of    MINED's statistics;         Appropriate incentives
improved quality and         public upper secondary      Project Monitoring reports;  are developed to
efficiency of public and     students increased from 18%   NAS test results          encourage private school
private secondary schools    in 1997 to 23% by 2002                                  participation
Transition rates between 9th                           All key stakeholders,
and 1 oth grade increased                              including teachers and
from 78% in 1997 to 90% by                             the private sector,
2002                                                   support national
accreditation and
Significant increase in mean                           evaluation systems
achievement scores for
mathematics, language and
science tests by 2002
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 18
Country, El Salvador                                                            Project Mfe: Secondary Educabon Reform
Project Outputs                                                                     (Outputs to
Development
COVERAGE:                                                                            Objectives)
1. Scholarship program       At least 2,340 scholarships    Scholarship program report  Eligibility criteria are
targeted to low income       awarded to low-income                                   followed and poor
students is operational      students by 2002                                        students with high
academic performance
2. Infrastructure and services    12 new schools constructed    MINED's statistics   receive the scholarships
of secondary education       and 100 rehabilitated by 2002
efficiently used             in the most needed areas,
according to results of the
mapping exercise
3. Access to distance        7,000 new students           Project Monitoring
secondary education programs  participating in distance   Reports; site visits;
expanded                     secondary education          departmental records;
programs by 2002            MINED's statistics
QUALITY:
4. Curricula revised         Curricula revised and        Project Monitoring         Teachers' union supports
approved by MINED by        Reports;                   project objectives
August 1998                 MINED's statistics
5. Teachers and principals   About 8,700 teachers and     Project Monitoring Reports
trained in new programs and    principals trained by 2002  School visits; classroom
methods                                                   observations
6. Educational materials for    Teaching guides for all   Project Monitoring
students and teachers        subjects and student modules  Reports;
developed                    printed and distributed      School visits
7. Program for Innovative    15% of funds allocated by    Project Monitoring         Criteria for selection on
Social Formative Projects    1999; remaining funds        Reports; School visits    a competitive basis
established and functioning  distributed from 2000 to 2002                           agreed and publicly
informed
8. Learning resource centers    149 CRAs created and      Project Monitoring Reports
(CRAs) established in all    operating by the year 2002
secondary schools
9. Rehabilitation of physical    100 public secondary schools  Project Monitoring
infrastructure               rehabilitated                Reports; School visits
10. National assessment      New evaluation system and    Project Monitoring        *  NAS results are
system (NAS) for the         norms are operational by     Reports;                    considered in making
secondary school level       September 1999               MINED's statistics; NAS     education policy
expanded and improved                                    results                      decisions and in the
criteria for establishing
I1. Accreditation and        *  At least 90% of public    Project Monitoring Reports   accreditation system;
supervision systems with new   and private secondary schools                         *  Private schools and
quality standards established    accredited with the new                              all other stakeholders



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 19
Country El Salvador                                                             Project Title Secondary Education Reform
and operational              system by 2002;                                          support the
*  New supervision system                               accreditation system
operational by 1999.
INSTITUTIONAL
MODERNIZATION
12. Management capacity of    *  Financial and            Project Monitoring
MINED's secondary education  administrative mechanisms    Reports; random interviews
and local administrative staff   revised, implemented and  with department officers;
improved                     evaluated;                   site visits
* MINED's staff trained
13. Participation of school  *  Approximately 1,744       Project Monitoring
councils (CDEs) and          CDE members trained by       Reports;
communities in decision-     2002                         random interviews; site
making for local education                                visits
centers expanded
14. Public awareness on the  *  Awareness campaign and  Project Monitoring
value of secondary education    promotional materials     Reports;
and its impact on development  distributed to schools and  Beneficiary assessment
increased                    local communities before and  reports
throughout each school year
Project Components                                                                  (Components to
Outputs)
COVERAGE:
1. I Establish a scholarship  *  Policies, procedures, and   Examination of Scholarship  Private sector supports
program to subsidize student   selection criteria established   Program documents, cost   the scholarship program
costs                        for management and           study, and targeting study;
implementation of the       Project Monitoring
program;                    Reports;
*  Institutions selected to  Mid-term evaluation of
administer program and      program
support MINED to guarantee
sustainability;
*  Targeting criteria
established to balance equity
with efficiency (poverty with
merit)
1.2 Stimulate participation of  *  Commission established   Project Monitoring      Private sector is
the private sector in financing   with representatives from  Reports;               interested in supporting
of the program               public and private sectors to    Examination of Program  and improving
guarantee transparency in   accounts                   secondary education
management of the program
2.1 Redistribute facilities and   *  Study completed to   Project Monitoring         Private contractors and
financing of infrastructure and  assess current distribution,    Reports;            NGOs able to carry out
equipment                    use and conditions of existing  MINED's reports and     school infrastructure
school facilities by 1998;  statistics                 work will support
*  Demand study for                                    implementation of these
secondary level completed by                           activities



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 20
Country El Salvador                                                             Project Title Secondary Educabon Reform
1998;
* Plan designed for
redistribution and expansion
of physical infrastructure
based upon results from the
study;
*  125 new classrooms
constructed and furnished by
2,001
3.1 Expand distance education   *  Evaluation of current  Project Monitoring Reports
programs                     program completed to
determine present coverage;
* New modalities
established (radio, television,
and distance teacher based
programs) and implemented
for the distance education
program by 1999
QUALITY:                     *  Curricula revised and     Project Monitoring Reports
4.1 Revise and improve       approved by MINED by
curricula to meet education  1998;
reform needs (provide TA)    *  New curriculum
implemented by 1999;
* 30,000 curriculum
programs printed and
distributed between 1998-
2000;
* Tracer study of graduates
completed by 2001
5.1 Establish training       *  Services contracted for    Project Monitoring Reports
programs for teachers and    design and implementation of  School visits; classroom
principals                   training program by 1998;    observations
* Training programs
designed by 1998;
* Participation of MINED
staff in study tours;
* Support systems and
school networks established
through Model schools;
* Trainers trained by 1998
6.1 Develop educational      *  Design of educational     Project Monitoring        Materials designed to
materials for students and   support materials by 1998;    Reports;                 support teacher training
teachers (provide TA and     *  Materials for 3 basic     School visits              activities
financing)                   areas printed by 1998 and
distributed in coordination
with training activities by
1999;
* Materials for other 3
basic areas printed by 1999



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 21
Country El Salvador                                                               Project Title Secondary Educabon Reform
and distributed in
coordination with training
activities by 2000
7.1 Establish program for     *  Project selection criteria   Project Monitoring       Transparent criteria
Innovative Social Formative    and transfer mechanisms     Reports;                    established in the
Projects                      established by 1998;         School visits               implementation manual
*  Dissemination of manual                               supports the
and training for teachers and                            development of
principals completed by                                  innovative social
1998;                                                   formative projects
*  Study tour completed to
visit similar funding
mechanisms in other
countries;
* Evaluation of formative
projects carried out from
2000 to 2002
8.1 Establish curriculum and    *  CRA curricula           Project Monitoring
train staff for learning resource  developed, including program   Reports;
centers (CRAs) (provide TA)   for computer-assisted        Manual for teacher training;
instruction by 1999;         MINED's reports
* Teacher training modules
for CRAs designed by 1999;
*  3,000 teachers and
specialized personnel trained
to work in CRAs
9.1 Finance physical          *  Diagnostic study of       Project Monitoring
infrastructure and equipment    demand to determine        Reports;
for CRAs, school libraries and   distribution of CRAs      MINED's statistics
science laboratories          completed;
* Criteria defined for
selection of CRA sites;
*  150 sites constructed or
spaces renovated and
functioning for CRAs;
* About 60 school libraries
created, equipped and
functioning;
*  Some 65 science labs
created or strengthened;
* Mechanisms for
monitoring construction and
maintenance of physical plant
and equipment established
10.1 Design, apply and process  *  100% of schools         National Assessment
student achievement tests and   administering test to      Reports;
disseminate results(provide   graduating students by Dec.   Project Monitoring
TA)                           1998;                        Reports; MINED's



Prqect Appraisal Document                                                                           Pae 22
Country. El Salvador                                                           Projec TIe: Seconday Educat Redan
*  Annual test results      statistics
disseminated
11.1. Establish accreditation    *  Accreditation criteria and  Project Monitoring Reports,
and supervision systems      procedures established;     MINED's statistics,
(provide TA)                 *  Process of school
accreditation implemented by
MINED;
* 100% of public and
private schools accredited by
2001;
* At least 15 new
supervisors contracted and
INSTITUTIONAL                trained by 1999
STRENGTHENING AND
MODERNIZATION
12.1 Design and implement    *  Studies of rationalization   Project Monitoring Reports
strategies for institutional  of administrative sub-systems
strengthening and            (finance, support, personnel,
modernization at central level,  legal, etc.) at central and
including establishing of    departmental levels
administrative systems to    completed by 1999;
support school-based         *  Administrative
management (provide TA)      reorganization complete and
new personnel classified and
assigned by 2000;
* Administrative and
financial manuals revised
and/or created and guidelines
implemented
12.2 Provide training for    *  Training institutes      Project Monitoring Reports
central and departmental staff  selected by June 1998;
* Training plan fully
implemented by 2002;
* Two seminars offered at
the central level and 2 at the
departmental level per year in
strategic planning, financial
management and budgeting,
school administration, etc.
13.1 Design and implement    *  Roles for CDEs defined    Project Monitoring       CDEs support schnol-
strategies for institutional  and appropriate sub-systems   Reports;               based management
strengthening at the local level  rationalized;          MINED's statistics;       activities
and improve mechanisms for   *  Administrative           Site visits and random
community participation in   procedures established and    interviews
CDEs (provide TA)            implemented
13.2 Train CDE members and  *  One course offered per    Project Monitoring Reports  MINED's technical
community members (provide   year to CDE members;                                   assistance to CDEs
TA)                          *  Focus groups and surveys                            enhances their capability



Nqed    al Document                                                                                Page 23
County: l Sador                                                                Project Tite. Secondary Education Reform
carried out to measure                                to manage schools
community satisfaction
13.3 Provide funds for school-  *  Evaluation and revision    Project Monitoring
based management activities    of transfer of funds to all  Reports; Examination of
CDEs completed;             fund transfer mechanisms.
*  Five secondary schools
selected in 1998 for pilot
program to fully decentralize
financial management
(transfer of all funds to
CDEs);
* Impact evaluation of new
transfer system and pilot
program completed by 2000
14.1 Design and implement    *  MINED's Office of        MINED's statistics;       Communication
awareness campaign for       Social Communication        Project Monitoring Reports  campaigns will increase
general public, MINED and    strengthened to carry out                              participation in and
related sector personnel     secondary education-specific                           support for the reforms
(provide TA)                 activities;                                            on secondary education
* Mass media campaign
designed and implemented
annually;
* Two seminars offered
yearly in secondary education
reform for MINED and
related sector staff;
* Two seminars and focus
group exercises carried out
each year to evaluate impact
of awareness campaign



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 24
Country El Salvador                                                          Project Title Secondary Educabon Reform
Annex 2
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Project Components
In 1992, with the signing of the Peace Accords, the Government of El Salvador (GOES) committed its resources to the
reconstruction of the country. Education was identified as a key determinant to foster economic growth, strengthen
democracy and consolidate the peace process. Priority has been given to a national education reform program, and three
important laws have been passed to ensure legal backing and support for education: the Higher Education Law (Ley de
Educaci6n Superior, December 1995), the Teachers' Career Law (Ley de la Carrera Docente, March 1996) and the
General Education Law (Ley General de Educaci6n, December 1996).
Since 1991, the Ministry of Education (MINED) has engaged in a comprehensive reform of basic education (grades 1-9)
which has focused on increased access through the EDUCO program, improved internal efficiency, quality improvement
measures, and decentralization and community participation in school management through community associations
(ACEs) and school councils (CDEs). As a result, net enrollment rates for basic education have increased from 79% to
88% between 1989 and 1995 and should reach 91% by 2000. Additionally, the dropout rate has decreased from 15.3% to
5.9%, and the average annual promotion rate rose from 77% to 87% over the same period. Simulations based on current
basic education transition rates indicate that total secondary school enrollments (public and private) can be expected to
rise by nearly 35% between 1995 and 2007. If population growth is taken into account as well, there would be an
additional 12% boost in enrollments. It is very likely, therefore, that there will be a need to provide for as much as a 47%
increase in secondary school enrollment over the next ten years.
MINED has taken into consideration this need for expansion in their secondary education reform. Programs will be
designed or expanded to give access to low-income students, especially in rural areas. A current curriculum reform aims
at improving the academic skills and capabilities of secondary school graduates in order to respond to the dynamic
changes of the labor market.. Finally, improved efficiency of the secondary education system will be enhanced by
deepening the ongoing process of decentralization through financial transfers and budget control to CDEs and increased
community participation, as well as strengthening the planning and management skills of staff at the central and
decentralized levels. The project to be financed by the World Bank supports MINED's secondary education reform
program. The components of the project are as follows:
Project Component 1 - EXPANSION OF ACCESS - US$18.6 milliGn (total cost of component)
The total expected enrollment increase of about 28% to public secondary education by the year 2002 represents the
entrance of some 21,000 new students at this level. To accommodate this expansion, MINED would be required to build
new classrooms to create up to 5,000 student places, establish internal efficiency measures (i.e. increasing the average
student-teacher ratio from the present 33 to about 36) to house approximately 9,000 additional students, and increase
MINED's distance education program by about 7,000 student places. In addition, there is a need to address demand side
issues, such as low incomes, which contribute to low enrollment rates at the upper secondary level.
This component comprises three main strategies to increase equitable access to secondary education: (a) establishment of
a scholarship program to subsidize student costs; (b) construction of classrooms and provision of furniture and
equipment; and (c) expansion of current distance education programs for secondary education.
The following describes the three main subcomponents of this component and outlines their goals:
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM - US$3.4 million (total cost of subcomponent)
The main objectives of this subcomponent are to (a) increase access to secondary education for low-income students; and
(b) encourage greater participation of the private sector in secondary education. This subcomponent will provide
resources on a declining basis for the establishment of a program to grant scholarships to low income students.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 25
Country El Salvador                                                           Project Ttle Secondary Educabon Reform
Scholarship Program and procedures. Some 650 scholarships will be awarded per year per grade to students who (a)
have completed their basic education studies; (b) are from low-income households; (c) are between the ages of 15 and 18
years; (d) are native Salvadorans; and (e) live in rural or marginal urban areas. The scholarships will be allocated equally
among male and female students. Scholarships will be given on an annual basis, but would be renewed only for those
who follow the procedures established by the program. These procedures include (a) attendance at a minimum of 90% of
school activities; (b) high academic achievement as defined by school grades; and (c) appropriate social behavior,
including no involvement in any violent acts, as defined by school rules and regulations. There will be two scholarship
packages, one for attendance to local schools and one for schools located in another town or department. The second
package will include additional funds for transportation and meals. Both packages will be defined in a Scholarship
Program Manual.
Annually, MINED will provide a list of accredited public and private schools. Students will use this list to select the
school they want to attend.
Scholarship Program administration. The program will be administered by FEPADE, a private agency contracted by
MINED. FEPADE was selected based on its previous experience in managing scholarship programs. FEPADE has been
carrying out a pilot scholarship program completely funded by the GOES and also has been responsible for administering
a post-secondary scholarship program. Private banks will be used to transfer funds to students.
MINED's responsibility. MINED will be responsible for: (a) transferring, on a quarterly basis, funds to FEPADE io
manage the program; (b) obtaining additional funds from the private sector to complement government resources for the
scholarship program; (c) selecting the agency to administer the scholarship program; (d) organizing communication
campaigns to inform students about the criteria to obtain the scholarships, and to motivate the private sector to participate
in the program; and (e) monitoring and evaluating the scholarship program.
FEPADE's responsibility. FEPADE will be responsible for: (a) managing the program under criteria established by
MINED and incorporated in the Scholarship Program Manual; (b) monitoring students' academic performance; and (c)
reporting program outcomes.
Table 2.1. - Number of Scholarships by Year and Track (1998-2001)
Track and Grade           1998      1999     2000  l 2001    2002
GeneralAcademic                     390       390
=__ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _   _390  390
_ __390  390
________ _______ _______ _____   _ ______   _______390    390
Technical Vocational                260      260       260
260      260      260
260     260      260
Sub-total No. of Scholarships       650     1,300     1,300    1,300     650
Sub-total No. of Graduates                    390      650      650      650
Total No. of Graduates
(Students Benefiting)                                                2,340
As a condition of effectiveness, MINED willpresent the Scholarship Program Manual describing eligibility criteria
for both students and schools; and nechanisms for administering the funds and providing the scholarships for
students.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 26
Country El Salvador                                                         Project Title Secondary Educatior Reform
INFRASTRUCTURE AND EQUIPMENT US$13.2 million (total cost of subcomponent)
This subcomponent will expand the number of available secondary education facilities through construction of new
schools in selected areas. Based on demographic data and the school mapping done by MINED, the new schools will be
constructed in the most rapidly growing cities of the country in the departments of Ahuachapan, Santa Ana, Sonsonate,
La Libertad, and San Miguel, and in the municipalities of Delgado, Ilopango, San Marcos, and Soyapango within the
department of San Salvador. Private contractors will be selected through bidding processes for construction of new
schools, while FISDL will rehabilitate classrooms in existing schools.
This subcomponent will finance: (a) construction of about 125 new classrooms: 100 of these will be in 12 new
institutions of different sizes, following a prototype design validated by secondary education directors; 25 of the new
classrooms will be in existing schools; (b) equipment and furniture; and (c) funds for maintenance.
Table 2.2. - Geographic Location of New Classrooms
No. Department  Municipality   Current   Projected   Population   Proposed    No. of new students
Population  Population   Growth       No. of    enrolled as a result of:
Classrooms    New       Relhab.
Construction
1 Ahuachapan    Ahuachapan        100,176     135,970     35,794       6          240        160
2  Santa Ana     Santa Ana        237,587     292,920      55,333      8          320        160
3  Sonsonate     Sonsonate         90,318     120,127      29,809      6          240        160
4  La Libertad    Nueva San       141,937     231,431      71,494      12         480
Salvador
5  La Libertad    Antiguo          38,352      72,950      34,598      6          240        160
Cuscatlan
6  San Salvador   Apopa           147,013     235,614      88,601      12         480
7  San Salvador   Ciudad          140,826     180,727      39,901      6          240        16f.
Delgado
8  San Salvador   San Marcos       67,666      76,106       8,440      12         480
9  San Salvador  Ilopango         117,031     168,554      51,523      8          320        160
10 San Salvador   Soyapango       247,630     266,852      19,222       6         240         160
11 San Salvador   Mejicanos       176,171     217,248      41,077       6         240         160
12 San Miguel    San Miguel       222,096     317,190      95,094      12         480
- -                          TOTAL                                 j    100        4,000      1,280
DISTANCE EDUCATION PROGRAM US$2.0 million (total cost of subcomponent)
According to the results of the 1996 Household Survey, there is a need to create alternative secondary education options
for low-income and rural students. MINED initiated a distance education program in 1989. Currently there are 7,181
students enrolled in this program in 49 centers throughout the country. Forty-eight percent of all students enrolled in this
program are between the ages of 15 and 20. In addition, 90% of the students enrolled in the program came from the
formal basic education system but enrolled in distance education because of their need to work. The methodology
adopted by the program permits the enrollment of students who need to work.
The current distance education program will be expanded through the establishment of new distance education sections,
mainlv in the new schools to be constructed or rehabilitated. Distance education students also will have access to tile
new resource learning centers.



Pioject Appraisal Documnent                                                                       r': ge27
Country El Salvador                                                           Project Title Secondary Educaboi: Reform
This subcomponent will finance: (a) establishment of 140 new sections to serve 7,000 new students throughout the
country; (b) technical assistance to support curriculum revision and design of a new promotion system; (c) provision of
educational materials; (d) training and assistance to upgrade the skills of the distance education teachers; and (e) staff
development activities.
Project Component 2 - QUALITY IMPROVEMENTS - US$46.2 million (total cost of component)
The secondary education reform poses new challenges for quality issues, including revision of the curriculum and use of
new methodologies for teaching and learning. A national curriculum reform for secondary education was initiated in 1995.
The process began with a series of consultations to different stakeholders, such as the teachers' union, private sector
institutions and universities. The thirty-two existing tracks were revised and two main options were proposed: a two-year
general academic program and a three-year technical and vocational program. Within this latter, students choose among
four possible tracks: commerce and management, industry, agriculture, and health. The curriculum for the general
program has been redesigned, transforming the traditional fragmented approach of twelve to thirteen subjects into six
basic areas (language and literature, mathematics, natural sciences, social sciences, foreign language and computer
science) and three formative areas (psychology of adolescents, seminars and optional courses) for a total of forty weekly
hours. Students in the technical and vocational program must complete the general academic program and, in addition,
spend two extra hours per day during the first two years and a full third year supplementing their training with a
vocational preparation.
This component comprises five main strategies to improve the quality of secondary education: (a) curriculum
development activities; (b) creation of learning resource centers (Centros de Recursos de Aprendizaje - CRAs) to
support the learning/teaching process; (c) rehabilitation of some 100 schools to accommodate a CRA; (d) development of
a national assessment system at the secondary school level; and (e) establishment of accreditation and supervision
systems.
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT - US$13.9 million (total cost of subcomponent)
A series of activities will be undertaken to promote curriculum development. These include: (a) curriculum revision; (b)
training of teachers and principals; (c) educational support materials for teachers and students; and (d) the creation of a
program for innovative school projects in social formative areas.
Curriculum
The new curriculum for the general program was designed by the Universidad Centroamericana (UCA), under contract
by MINED, and is currently being implemented on a trial basis. UCA is conducting an assessment of the implementation
of the new curriculum through surveys to students and teachers, focus groups and observations. The results of this study
will inform the required revisions. FEPADE has been responsible for the design and implementation of the technical and
vocational program.
The project will provide for: (a) the assessment and revision of the new curriculum during 1998; (b) the printing and
distribution of 30,000 revised curriculum programs between 1998 and 2000; and (c) the design and completion of a tracer
study to assess the experience and acceptance of 1998-1999 graduates in all modalities (general, vocational, distance
education) as they continue their studies or enter the labor market.
Training of Teachers and Principals
The implementation of the new curriculum poses major challenges to the teaching force, both in terms of content and
pedagogy. Teachers who have been trained under the old traditional disciplinary paradigm must now face the challenge
of teaching basic areas (e.g., physics teachers now teach natural sciences, including the areas of biology and chemistry).
The project will support: (a) the development and implementation of a new strategy for in-service training for teachers
and principals; (b) strengthening of the three teacher training centers (San Salvador, Santa Ana and San Miguel); and (c)
creation of model schools at the secondary level to provide local in-service training.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 28
Country El Salvador                                                             Project TeSe Secondary Educabon Retbrm
Principals have participated in initial teacher training activities related to the new curriculum. In addition, they are
involved in the training of school councils (CDEs) to better assume their management and administrative responsibilities.
A need has been identified to further support the development of principals in their new roles as educational leaders for
the community. Therefore, training programs will be developed specifically for secondary school principals.
Both training strategies will be designed during the first year of the project and implemented in subsequent years to cover
all secondary teachers and principals. In the design of these strategies, the technical team at MINED will take into
account: the evaluation reports from UCA regarding the status of implementation of the new curriculum; the experience
accumulated by Model Schools in Basic Education; past and present training experiences of the teacher training centers
(centros de capacitaci6n) and knowledge gained from study tours abroad. The strategy for teachers will address both
content issues and pedagogy; the strategy for principals will include personnel management supervision and leadership
issues.
The project will finance (a) technical assistance required to design the strategy and training plan; (b) study tours to assess
state-of-the-art in-service models; (c) implementation and assessment of in-service training for all secondary teachers and
principals; (d) specialized training libraries; (e) training materials; and (f) other technical assistance and operation costs.
Program for Innovative Social Formative Projects
The objective of this program is to encourage schools to seek innovative ways to respond to students' needs at the local
level. The social assessment study identified major social issues affecting the attendance and achievement of secondary
school students (e.g., gender, teenage pregnancy, violence, motivation, alienation). These results confirm previous
studies on the status of the sector that have led to the inclusion of a Formative Area in the design of the new curriculum.
This includes student seminars, student social services, and an adult education program for parents.
In order to encourage the design and implementation of effective local strategies that contribute to addressing these social
issues, the project will support the creation of a program to develop innovative school projects in social formative areas.
These may include recreational, cultural and athletic activities that encourage students to explore alternative ways of
participating in school and relating to their fellow students and teachers. Secondary schools will compete for funds to
implement these innovative activities designed to:
(a)    diminish student violence;
(b)    reduce the risk of teenage pregnancies;
(c)    improve family relationships;
(d)    encourage cooperation among young people;
(e)    foster cultural, ethical and civic values; and
(f)    enhance adolescents' decision-making skills.
Funds will be allocated to secondary schools on a competitive basis from 1999 to 2001 on the basis of school-proposed
projects. The criteria and mechanism for project selection, information about the fund and dissemination strategies, and
training of school personnel will be designed and conducted in 1998. The criteria for allocating funds will guarantee that
more resources reach higher- risk schools. This will require a prior categorization of schools.
The project will finance (a) technical assistance required for the development of the fund; (b) dissemination campaign
and support materials; (c) design, printing and distribution of training materials to access school funds; and (d) school
projects.
LEARNING RESOURCE CENTERS (Centros de Recursos de Aprendizaje - CRAs), SCHOOL LIBRARIES AND
SCIENCE LABORATORIES - US$17.3 million (total cost of subcomponent)
The objective of this subcomponent is to provide improved resources to support the learning and teaching process.
Learning resource centers (CRAs) will be created in all public secondary schools. Thu; CRAs will include equipmint,
such as televisions, videos, radios and computers, as well as didactic materials and school libraries for teachers and
students. Three different models have been designed, in accordance with school needs (number of students, location,



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        "age 29
Country El Salvador                                                           Project Title Secondary Education Reform
etc.). A fully equipped CRA will be installed in each model school to provide in-service training opportunities to
neighboring secondary institutions. Model schools will offer specialized training to all teachers and CRA personnel for
the successful implementation of programs and use of the CRA facilities and equipment. The CRAs will introduce
opportunities for new teaching and learning modalities and will be used by teachers and students in the schools whcre
centers are installed, and by neighboring schools and distance education programs. Technical assistance for the design of
materials and training programs for teachers, and CRA personnel will be provided by the Instituto Tecnol6gico
Centroamericano (ITCA).
This subcomponent will finance (a) technical assistance to: (i) purchase and install technological equipment; (ii) train
school personnel in the proper care and use of the CRAs; (iii) establish mechanisms to ensure maintenance of the equipment;
(iv) develop, produce and distribute teaching materials for computer-assisted instruction and use of audio-visual aids and
science laboratory equipment; and (v) design and implement a support network between schools, in coordination with the
technical coordinator of MINED; (b) purchase of new technology and science laboratory equipment, audio-visual aids and
library books; (c) software learning packages and audio-visual materials; and (d) office supplies and operating costs.
REHABILITATION OF SCHOOL FACILITIES FOR CURRICULUM IMPROVEMENT - US$13.5 million (total
cost of subcomponent)
This subcomponent aims to enhance the quality of education through improvements in classrooms and school structures
and rehabilitation of existing spaces to accommodate new school libraries, science laboratories and learning resource
centers (CRAs). The project has selected 100 of the country's 219 secondary schools for rehabilitation of school
facilities. MINED selected the schools according to the following criteria:
a. enrollment of more than 100 students;
b. schools built on property owned by or donated to MINED;
c. schools with space to accommodate expansion and/or new construction for libraries, labs, CRAs or other
facilities that will contribute to improved educational quality;
d. schools that show enabling conditions to foster school autonomy; and
e. schools that demonstrate financial and infrastructure needs.
This subcomponent will finance (a) rehabilitation of infrastructure; and (b) equipment and furniture.
NATIONAL ASSESSMENT SYSTEM - US$1.0 million (total cost of subcomponent)
The National Assessment System (NAS) will test the learning performance of students to monitor the quality of education
provided by secondary schools. In 1996, El Salvador's Legislative Assembly passed the new General Education law, which
establishes the guidelines and mandates for the NAS. This law stipulates the application of a national student achievement
test as a graduation requirement for all secondary students. With technical assistance from the Universidad Centroamericana
Jos6 Sime6n Cafnas, MINED is currently developing a NAS for the secondary education level.
The test given during the first year will provide base line data for future assessments. Tests will be designed to evaluate
basic knowledge acquired during the eleven years of formal education in four general subject areas (mathematics, language,
natural science, and social studies).
In the design of the NAS, MINED will take into consideration the following issues:
l. Graduated complexity of the tests. Students currently in their last year of secondary education have studied under several
different curriculum designs. Students starting now in 1998 under the new curriculum reform will not graduate until 2001.
In the design of the test questions and scoring, these curricular differences will be taken into consideration.
2. Design of an ongoing strategy to motivate students. Students are required by law to take the test in order to graduate, but
no minimum score has been established. Therefore, results will be influenced by students' level of interest in performing
well. MINED is currently developing national awareness campaigns to emphasize the importance of the test.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 30
Country El Salvador                                                           Project Title Secondary Education Reforn
3. Design of a strategy to disseminate test results. Care must be taken in the dissemination of test results in order to avoid
unfair comparisons among secondary institutions or excessive demand on students to perform. Results will be used to
inform students of their achievement level; assist teachers in improving their teaching methods and knowledge; and support
schools to improve their services.
4. Establishment of a direct link between test results and the accreditation system. The results of the national assessment
system will provide information, which can be used as one indicator to determine the quality of secondary education
schools.
This subcomponent will provide (a) technical assistance to (i) further develop the current system, including the
preparation of tests, and implementation of the system; and (ii) design training programs for the development of technical
skills for local university or research center staff and MINED staff members responsible for the coordination of the
evaluation assessment system; (b) operating costs for an external evaluation (university or research center); (c) the
production and implementation of achievement tests for secondary education students and a survey to determine the
impact of selected associated factors on the learning process in both academic and vocational tracks; and (d) supplies,
materials, and computer services.
NATIONAL ACCREDITATION AND SUPERVISION SYSTEM - US$0.5 million (total cost of subcomponent)
The national accreditation system aims at ensuring that all schools, both public and private, meet minimum educational
standards. Significant increases in coverage at the basic education level are now translating into larger enrollment rates
at the secondary education level. The increase in coverage has been achieved through expansion of school places in the
public sector, which is administered in a highly decentralized manner, and through rapid growth in the private education
sector. Private schools now account for around 50 % of student enrollments in secondary education. As coverage
expands, increasing attention is being given to quality issues. With a highly decentralized system of school management,
an exzensive private sector, and no current national assessment system at the secondary level, it is clear that schoolh differ
significantly in terms of the quality of education they provide.
MINED will establish a School Registration and Accreditation System within the central Ministry to determine
minimum criteria to be met by all secondary schools and will institute an accreditation system to monitor quality.
MINED anticipates that the Registration criteria will cover minimal physical infrastructure requirements and will lay
down minimum teacher qualification requirements and maximum acceptable student-teacher ratios, etc. The School
Registration System will be supported by an inspectorate function, which may be undertaken by a resident inspectorate or
contracted out. The Accreditation System will monitor and report data reflecting school quality.
A supervision and monitoring system will form an integral part of the accreditation system. This will allow for ongoing
oversight of the process and results for the secondary schools involved, from both the administrative and educational
management perspectives. In 1997, MINED contracted an initial team of supervisors. This team is working with a
flexible and dynamic focus, emphasizing its advisory and support functions.
This subcomponent will finance (a) technical assistance to MINED to develop the School Registration and Accreditation
System; and (b) equipment and office furniture. In addition, it will systematize and strengthen the supervision system at
the secondary level through (c) contracting of new supervisors; and (d) provision of technical assistance to (i) design and
revise the criteria for selection and performance of supervisors; and (ii) train supervisors.
Project Component 3 - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - US$9.2 million (total cost of component)
The main objective of this component is to continue to carry out the institutional modernization and strengthening of the
education sector with emphasis on the secondary education subsector in order to (a) reinforce MINED's capacity to set
policies and guidelines for secondary education; and (b) improve the public and private systems' capacity to deliver
education services effectively and efficiently with the participation of parents, private groups and organizations. To



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 31
Country El Salvador                                                          Project Title Secondary Education Reform
further strengthen the institutional reform process initiated in basic education, the project will focus on key aspects of the
modernization of the secondary education system at the central, departmental and school levels. Within the framework
of the education reform, MINED has been exploring various methods of delivering education services to improve the
quality and efficiency of the public and private sectors. Innovative methods of combining private and public sector
provision of services have been successfully adopted in basic education and will be tried in secondary schools.
MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS - US$1.3 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Modernization of management at the central and departmental levels will focus on the design of management, human
resources and financial mechanisms to support school-based management, and reorganization of the secondary school
network, including rationalization of the teaching force. This subcomponent will provide (a) technical assistance to (i)
revise and review MINED's administrative and financial mechanisms; and (ii) carry out an evaluation study of the
central, department and school management; and (b) staff training activities at the central and departmental levels based
on the administrative and financial adjustments.
SCHOOL-BASED MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES - DECENTRALIZATION OF MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
TO SCHOOL COUNCILS - US$5.7 million (total cost of subcomponent)
Since 1991, MINED has successfully implemented EDUCO (a community-based school program) in basic education
schools in the rural areas. This program has demonstrated the positive outcomes of strong community participation in
education service delivery. When schools are managed by parent councils, and teachers and parents share
responsibilities, accountability increases at all levels. In addition, funds raised by the school councils and community
associations contribute to improve education services. Recently, school councils (CDEs) with parent, teacher and student
members have been gradually established in all schools as a requirement of the Teachers' Career Law (Ley de la Carrera
Docente - March 1996). The CDEs have responsibility for: (a) planning and implementing the school activities; and (b)
participating in the management of the resources transferred to schools and raising additional funds to support school
activities. MINED envisions that the CDEs will progressively assume a more prominent role in the school decision-
making process.
This subcomponent will: (a) enhance the capacity of the school councils (CDEs) to prepare school plans and reports
through training and participatory activities; (b) establish management mechanisms and processes at the school level,
including accounting and auditing systems; (c) improve school mechanisms for registering student records and teacher
performance; and (d) establish a pilot program of fully decentralized financial management of all school resources in five
secondary schools to test the capability of the school councils to support schools in making decisions, setting priorities
and controlling resources. Based on the results of the pilot program, the experience would be gradually extended to the
network of secondary schools. The school pilot program will focus on the school as a unit and the link between sch lol
performance and the provision of support and resources. School reports will be used as monitoring tools to obtain
information on the school, its personnel and its programs, learning outcomes, and statements about future plans and
priorities.
The subcomponent will finance (a) technical assistance to (i) design and review school administration systems; (ii)
design and implement the pilot program of decentralization; (b) managerial and pedagogical training for (i) school
directors and vice-directors, including training on management and pedagogical leadership issues; (ii) school count Lls
(CDEs); and (c) transfer of funds to CDEs.
COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES AND PUBLIC AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS - US$2.2 million (total cost of
subcomponent)
MINED has successfully used communication strategies and public awareness campaigns in the implementation of the
reform at the basic education level. By building on the experience of the Basic Education Modernization Project,
MINED has developed a series of strategies to guarantee stakeholders' participation in the education reform of secondary
schools. The social assessment carried out during project preparation (see Annex 6) recommends an action plan of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page32
Country El Salvador                                                               Project Title Secondary Education Reform
activities, to be developed by MINED, to enhance public support for secondary education schools and encourage the
participation of the private sector in the delivery of services at the secondary level.
The country's experience has demonstrated that well-designed communication and public awareness programs are 'ey
tools for implementing the reform. The design, execution, and monitoring of the communication programs will use
social research techniques, particularly focus groups and mass media publicity. MINED's structure will continue to be
strengthened to facilitate implementation of the planned activities.
This component will provide: (a) technical assistance to (i) design communication and public awareness campaigns; (ii)
prepare and produce materials; and (iii) organize focus groups and seminars with different stakeholders.
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION - US$3.1 million (total cost of subcomponent)
This component will finance (a) operation costs; and (b) equipment and office supplies and vehicles.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 33
Country El Salvador                                                        Project Title Secondary Education Reform
Annex 3
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                    Local       Foreign          Total
(US$ '000)
A. Expansion of Coverage
Scholarship Program                                 3,180.4            -        3,180.4
New School Construction                             6,670.1       4,682.2      11,352.3
Distance Education Program                          1,347.6        492.5        1,840.1
B. Quality Improvement
Curriculum Improvement                              5,137.1       7,576.1      12,713.2
Learning Resource Centers (CRA)                     9,333.9       6,209.3      15,543.2
School Rehabilitation                               7,821.2       3,351.9      11,173.1
Student Achievement Tests                            850.0          50.0          900.0
School Accreditation System                          351.0          99.0          450.0
C. Institutional Strengthening and Modernization
Efficiency Improvement                              1,032.2        165.0        1,197.2
School Administration Strengthening                 3,714.9       1,534.0       5,249.0
Social Communications Program                        995.2         995.2        1,990 4
D. Project Administration                             2,114.0        776.9        2,890.9
Total BASELINE COST                                  42,547.7      25,932.0       68,479.7
Physical Contingencies                              2,303.3       2,180.5       4,483 8
Price Contingencies                                 2,644.9       1,502.7       4,147.6
Total PROJECT COST                                   47,495.9      29,615.2       77,111.1



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 34
Country El Salvador                                                                  Project Title Secondary Educabon Reform
Annex 4
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Economic Analysis
I. Benefits.
A. Increased Access to Secondary Education.
The project provides resources for the construction of 12 new schools and the rehabilitation of 100 existing schools,
which will provide access to secondary education to 5,250 additional students per year. Given the inequity in current
access to secondary education, and the high direct and opportunity costs of secondary education (20% and 75%
respectively of a 1995 per capita GNP of US$1,580), the project provides resources for scholarships to be awarded to at
least 2,340 low-income students.
The calculation of benefits from expanded access involved two steps. The first step was the calculation of benefits of
education accruing to an individual in the labor force. It is not accurate to simply compute the average labor earnings of
a group of primary and secondary school graduates in the labor force and then attribute the difference to secondary
schooling. A substantial part of the differences in the means will be due to other factors such as differences in family
background, and only a part of the differences in the mean earnings can be attributed as a benefit of secondary schooling.
Labor earning is considered here as the flow which arises from the stock of human capital possessed by an individual.
This stock of human capital does not ossify at the end of formal schooling, but continues to be shaped by an individual's
on the job experience. With these factors in mind, data from the 1996 National Household Survey was used to estiviate a
regression equation with the level of earnings as the dependent variable, and years o" bchooling, years of experience,
squares and interactions of school-.og and experience to account for possible non-linearities, and some control variables.
The increment in labor earnings was calculated as the difference between the estimated earnings of a secondary school
graduate and those of a primary school graduate. The advantage of using this particular regression method is that fewer
assumptions about the control variables are needed.2
Once an estimate of an individual's expected increase in earnings was obtained from the regression analysis for each year
of an expected working life from 18 years of age up to 60 years of age, the next task was to multiply the individual s gain
by the estimated number of individuals who would gain. The size of the expansion (5,250 students per year over 5 years,
compared with an estimated 25,000 students graduating from secondary school each year after 5 years, or the existing
secondary school population of approximately 70,000 students) is sufficiently small so that we can safely assume the
absence of wage compression effects due to the incremental graduates being produced by the proposed expansion. A
complication is introduced by the fact that the project will go on stream gradually, so that a different number of
incremental students will be coming into the labor market - for instance, only 6% of the classrooms will have been built
by the end of the first year, and only 32% by the end of the second year. Since the incremental annual earnings predicted
by the regression increase with job market experience, each cohort of students has a set of expected earnings which
changes every year. The calculation of benefits takes elaborate care of this difference in the size of cohorts, and the
expected benefits are calculated up to a period of 45 years by which time the first cohort will have exited the labor
market. This cut-off is somewhat arbitrary, but is commonly followed in cost-benefit analysis for education (see for
instance the SAR for the basic education project in Panama, Report No. 15109-PAN, 1996).
At this stage of the analysis, we only have a stream of benefits estimated to accrue due to the increased labor market
2 Table 4.1. of this annex provides details regarding the specification of the regression Note that the regression approach introduces
its own problems, such as the possible bias in the reported coefficients due to a violation of one or more of the classical assumptions
of least squares regression analysis. However, this problem is mitigated here because a number of terms are differenced away, and the
coefficients which were not eliminated by subtraction were robust to alternative nearby specifications. It is also to be noted tha' the
regression estimated here uses the level of labor earnings and not the logarithm of labor earnings. The regression is not the standard
Mincerian earnings function, which is sometimes used to estimate the private returns to education.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                r,age 35
Country El Salvador                                                                 Project Title Secondary Education Reform
earnings of the 5,250 additional secondary school graduates. Note that the project proposes spending US$2.0 million
(about 3% of the project) to expand access to an incremental 7,000 distance education students. Distance learning
students will also be using other resources made available through the project, such as the learning resource centers.
However, very little is known at this stage about the impact of distance learning. Ministry of Education officials state
that the benefits of distance education are the same as those of formal education students. However, it was not possible
to rigorously substantiate this claim. While it was feasible to include the distance education students in the benefit
calculation, the resulting benefit estimations would be highly suspect because of the complete absence of data about
distance education students of a nature comparable to the data used for the 5,250 formal education students. Therefore,
the reported estimate regarding the benefit from expanding access is an extremely conservative one, even if we do not
mention positive externalities due to schooling. The benefits calculated in the manner described here are presented in
Table 4.2. The base case internal rate of return to this component was 19% for the private, and 17% for the social rate of
return.
B. Improvement in Quality of Secondary Education.
Estimation of the benefits arising from improvement in quality are not as straightforward to compute as are the benefits
of expanded access to secondary schooling. Research evidence from other countries lends support to the beneficial
impact of school quality on labor market earnings of individuals in a number of developing countries.3 Given the
absence of direct data about the impact of school quality on earnings in El Salvador, a range of estimates have been used
to assess the impact. The base case assumes that the improved curriculum, improved access to books and other inputs,
such as computers, provided by the learning resource centers, and, not least, the establishment of a national assessment
system, are among the quality improvement factors that will enhance the labor market premium by 10% over the cujrrent
premium. Equivalently, a 10% increase in the premium is the same as a 2% increase in the basic salary of an average
secondary school graduate.
Given that the secondary school system will generate, at the least, about 25,000 students per year, the estimation of
benefits involves the multiplication of the number of students coming out as a cohort each year with the associated
benefit which is 10% of the premium associated with secondary education as determined from the regression equation of
earnings detailed in Table 4.1. The associated benefits are computed for the same period as for the analysis of benefits
from increased access, so as to maintain as high a level of similarity in method as is possible for the cost benefit analysis
of the two components. The benefits calculated in the manner described here are presented in Table 4.3. The base case
social rate of return was estimated to be 22% for this component of the project.
C. lmplications for Equity.
The benefits arising from greater equity have not been computed as a specific dollar amount, but should form a part of
the economic analysis because of the current inequity in the provision of secondary education. That the current system is
inequitable can be seen from simple statistics such as the 82% difference in family incomes between households with
teenagers in school and teenagers out of school. It can also be seen from a probit analysis of enrollment in secondary
school, as well as from household expenditures on secondary schooling (see Edwards, 1996 in Annex 9).
Equity implications of the expansion of secondary schooling can be derived from a quantile regression of earnings.4 A
quantile regression is quite similar to an ordinary least square regression. 5  It estimates the impact of schooling on
earnings at different points along the distribution of earnings, and provides a means to examine implications regarding
equity. Use of a standard extended Mincerian specification for the quantile regression shows that the estimated private
3 Glewwe, 1996, reports a 25% social rate of return to investrnents in school quality in Ghana. Bedi and Edwards, 1997, found a
significant impact of school quality on earnings in the neighboring country of Honduras.
4 Koenker and Basset, 1978.
5In an ordinary least squares (OLS) regression we estimate the mean of the dependent variable, conditional on values of the
independent variables. A quantile regression of the 0.5th quantile, or the median, would estimate the median of the dependent
variable, with coefficient estimates very similar to those from OLS. In order to explore equity implications, we estimate the
relationship not at the median (or mean) but at the poorest 10th percentile and the richest 90th percentile.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 36
County El Salvador                                                              Project Title Secondary Education Reform
rate of return to secondary education is 10.3% at the richest 90th percentile of the income distribution, but it is 260/.% Lt the
poorest 10th percentile. In other words, the poor would receive a better return than the rich from the proposed expansion
of secondary schooling.6
D. Educational Testing for Results.
Background sector work for the project had revealed the presence of a great variation in school quality, and the presence
of schools which provide a low quality of education. The project will help to establish a transparent accreditation system
together with a national educational testing system. Students from both public and private schools will be required to
take the test, and the project will have safeguards to ensure against adverse incentive effects. In terms of measurement of
economic benefits and the monitoring of the project, it needs to be stressed here that the collection and analysis of test
score data will go a long way in keeping track of the actual improvements made in school quality so that the benefits
claimed for the project will actually be obtained.
Table 4.4. presents the combined benefit and cost estimates for the access and quality components.
II. Sensitivity Analysis
The base case for estimating the benefits of improved access does not factor in school completion as it assumes that the
full complement of the entering cohort will emerge from school at the designated period. The presence of drop-outs and
repeaters will tend to lower the stream of benefits associated with the project. A rough estimate computed from th. ' 996
Household Survey (see Edwards, 1996 in Annex 9) indicates a 90% completion rate, and completion rates may woi sen as
access increases and students from more disadvantaged backgrounds enter the educational system. Further, the ana!ysis
does not account for unemployment. Between 1988 and 1993, IDB estimates show that unemployment ranged from 7.5
to 10%. The 1996 Household Surxey indicated that unemployment among those with secondary education or higher was
6.5%, and there is some evidence that unemployment rates decline with the level of education. Historical unemployment
rates may have little to do with unemployment rates which will be faced by secondary school students who will be
graduating well into the future. Rather than creating intricate assumptions about the impact of these factors, the
economic analysis re-estimates the rate of return under a set of assumptions at the aggregate level.
The first re-estimation assumes a 20% reduction in the number of individuals who would enjoy the premium due tc
secondary education. This leads to a reduction in the social rate of return to quality from the reported 17% to 14% and
causes the reported private rate of return to fall from 19% to 16%. The second set of re-estimations examines the total
figure for net benefits each year. The IRR is thus recomputed assuming that total benefits will only be 90% of those
computed for the base case, and onwards using a factor of 80% and so on. The objective of this analysis is to compute a
'switching value' for the IRR to move from above 10% to below 10%. If the stream of benefits is only 60% of the one
estimated as the base case, the social IRR is 11% and the private IRR is 12%. If benefits are only half of what they have
been computed, say if only half of the entire stream of secondary school graduates ever find employment, or if everyone
is unemployed half of the year, the social IRR falls to 9%, and the private IRR falls to 10%.
A similar sensitivity analysis was also performed for the quality component of the project. If improved school qual'ty
leads to a proportionate increase in the premium of only 5% as opposed to the 10% assumed in the base case, the sc:ial
IRR for enhanced quality will fall from 22% to 15%. If the proportionate increase in premium were only 2.5%, the TRR
would fall to 10%. Note that a 2.5% incremental premium translates to the assumption that improvement in the quality
of education will increase the average salary earned by a secondary school graduate by only 0.5%.
6A Mincerian earnings function has the major weakness that it ignores the direct costs of schooling, which are substantial in tlic
present case. However, to the extent that the rich would incur greater direct costs, this particular weakness of the Mincerian approach
will support the conclusion of higher returns to education accruing to the poorer income group. The rate of return reported in this
paragraph should not be confused with the IRR estimates presented elsewhere in this document which have been estimated usi-,, a
thorough analysis of the streams of economic costs and benefits associated with the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 37
Country. El Salvador                                                                 Project Title Secondary Educatior Reform
The sensitivity analysis concludes that the project remains economically feasible even if the worst scenario obtained in
the risk assessment were to come true.
III. Annex Tables for the Economic Analysis
Table 4.1. Regression Analysis to Obtain Incremental Earnings due to Secondary School.
Variable                               Parameter Estimates  Standard Error    t-value for Ho
Parameter =0
Constant                               485.38                488.93             0.99
Schooling in Years (S)                 -198.61               61.52              -3.22
Schooling Squared (S2)                 19.13                 2.17               8.82
Experience in Years (X)                -30.33                28.86              -1.05
Experience Squared (X2)                0.40                  0.42               0.94
Experience*Schooling (X*S)             8.25                  1.55               5.31
Male (M)w                              1179.44               112.61             10.47
Works in Private Sector (P)            0.08                  0.01               6.82
Lives in Urban Area (U)                419.5                 118.18             3.55
R2 of Regression: 0.21
Sample Size: 2817 Individuals
The calculation of Incremental Earnings accruing to an individual due to Secondary Education involved the following
steps:
Step 1. Run the regression of the level of annual labor earnings in US dollars (W) on a constant, S, S2, X, X2, X*S, M,
P, and U and obtain results shown in the table above.
Step 2. Use a value of S = 9 for Primary Schooling and S = 12 for Secondary Schooling and calculate the difference
between estimated W (Secondary) and estimated W (Primary). Note that the terms not involving S and X will drop out
in the differencing.
Step 3. Use the resulting expression 705 + 19.X to calculate the incremental earnings due to Secondary Schooling. The
coefficient values were robust to alternative nearby specifications (not shown). Using a squared interaction term between
schooling and experience would have yielded an incremental earnings stream which is non-linear in experience, but only
a linear term has been used here for the sake of simplicity.
* The negative co-efficient is not a typographical error and does not represent the marginal effect of one extra year of schooling
because schooling enters non linearly in this specification. The negative value is not surprising considering that the sample consists of
all those in the labor force from ages 18 to 60, and a number of individuals, especially older individuals, have zero schooling.
a It would have been sensible to run separate regressions for males and females because of greater selectivity effects for earnin6
femalts. However, greater structure on the regression framework would not be useful for subsequent earnings projections beca,.se
gender-wise enrollment projections were not available.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Pcge 38
Country El Salvador                                                        Project Title Secondary Educabo, Reform
Table 4.2. Cost and Benefit Streams from Increased Access.
Dlrect |ppy.  Project TOTAL   TOTAL   NET BENEFITS NET BENEFITS
COSTS  COSTS  COSTS COSTS  BENEFITS   SOCIAL    PRIVATE
Year   $ Million  $MIlilon  $ Million $ Million  $ Million  $ Milllion  $ Mililion
1998   0.097335  0.36981  1.8628  2.329945       0      -2.329945    -0.467145
1999    0.58401  2.21886  4.7718   7.57467       0       -7.57467     -2.80287
2000   2 052778 7.703788  4.3429  14.09947  0.113668    -13.985798    -9.642898
2001   3 484292 12 75903  4.5423  20 78562  0.800831    -19.984793   -15.442493
2002   4 377135 15.16221  3.0752  22.61455  3.140741    -19.473804   -16.398604
2003   4.475625 15 40875   0.8   20 68438  6.871496    -13 812879   -13 012879
2004   4 475625 15 40875   0.8   20 68438  10.85005     -9.834325    -9 034325
2005   4 475625 15 40875   0.8   20 68438  14.92836     -5.756019    -4.956019
2006   4.475625 15.40875   0.8   20.68438  19.10641     -1.577964    -0.777964
2007   4.475625 15.40875   0.8   20.68438  23 38422     2 699841      3.499841
2008   4.475625 15.40875   0 8    20.68438  27 76177     7.077396     7.877396
2009   4.475625 15.40875   08    20.68438  32.23908     11 354701    12.354701
2010   4.475625 15.40875   08    20.68438  36 81613     16 131756    16.931756
2011  |4.475625 15.40875   08    20.68438  41.49294     20.808561    21.608561
2012 _4475625 15 40875   0.8   20 68438  46.26949      25.585116    26 385116
2013   4.475625 15 40875   0.8   20 68438   51.1458     30.461421    31 261421
2014   4 475625 15.40875   0.8  4 20.68438  56.12185    35.437476    36.237476
2015   4.475625 15.40875   0.8   2068438  61.19766     40513281      41 313281
2016   4 475625 15 40875   08    20 68438  66 37321    45 688836    46 488836
2017   4.475625 15.40875   0.8   20.68438  71 64852     50.964141    51.764141
2018   4.475625 15.40875   0.8   20.68438  77.02357     56.339196    57.139196
2019   4.475625 15.40875   0.8   20.68438  82 49838     61 814001    62.614001
2020   4.475625 15.40875   0 8    20.68438  88 07293    67.388556    68.188556
2021   4.475625 15.40875   0.8   20.68438  93 74724     73.062861    73.862861
2033   4.475625 15.40875   0.8   20.68438  169.6194    148.935025   149 735025
2034   4.475625 15 40875   0.8   20.68438  176.5905    155.906075   156.706075
2035   4.475625 15 40875   0.8   20 68438  183.6613    162.976885   163 776885
2036   4475625 15.40875   0.8   20.68438  190.8318    170.147435   170.947435
2037   4.475625 15.40875   0.8   2068438  198.1021    177417745   178.217745
2038   4 475625 15.40875   0.8   20 68438  205.4722    184 787795   185.587795
2039   4.475625 15.40875   0 8    20.68438  212.942    192.257605   193.057605
2040   4.475625 15.40875    08    20.68438  220.5115    199.827155   200.627155
2041   4.475625 15.40875   0.8   20.68438  228 1808    207 496465   208.296465
2042   4.475625 15.40875   0.8  | 20.68438 235.9499    215.265515   216 065515
Intemal Rate of Return    l         l      l                   17%          19%
Net Present Value in Millions (Discount Rate of 10 %)      $135.67      S154.4
Note: The series from 2021 to 2033 appears broken in order to make this table fit on one page. The entire series is
available in the Project File.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 39
Country El Salvador                                                        Project Title Secondary Educatorv keform
Table 4.3. Cost and Benefit Streams from Improvement in Quality.
EXTRA    TOTAL    FIXED    RECURR. TOTAL   NET
EARNINGS BENEFITS COSTS COSTS COSTS BENEFITS
Year   $per Year $ Million   $ Million  $ Million  $ Million  $ Million
1998                          3.3316   0 0182   3.3498   -3 3498
1999    ______ ________   15 6473   0.3602  16.0075  -16.0075
2000                         13.2274   1.3242  14.5516  -14.5516
2001     74.3        1.8575   5 7527   1 5527   7.3054   -54479
2002     76.2        3.7625   3.3415      1.6  4.9415    -1 179
2003     78.1         5.715       0       1.6      1.6     4 115
2004      80          7.715       0       1.6      1.6     6.115
2005      81.9       9.7625       0       1.6      1.6    8.1625
2006     83.8       11.8575       0       1.6      1.6   10.2575
2007     85.7           14        0       1.6      1.6       12.4
2008      87.6        16.19       0       1.6      1.6      14 59
2009      89.5      18.4275       0       1.6      1.6   16.8275
2010      91.4      20.7125       0       1.6      1.6   19.1125
2011     93.3        23.045       0       1.6      1.6    21 445
2012      95.2       25.425       0       1.6      1.6    23.825
2013     97.1       27.8525       0       1 6      1.6   26.2525
2014      99        30 3275       0       1.6      1.6   28.7275
2015     100.9        32.85       0       1.6      1.6     31.25
2016     102.8        35.42       0       1 6      1 6     33.82
2017     104.7      38.0375       0       1.6      1.6   36.4375
2018     106.6      40.7025       0       1.6      1.6   39.1025
2019     108.5       43 415       0       1.6      1.6    41.815
2020     1104        46.175       0       1 6      1.6    44.575
2021     112.3      48.9825       0       1.6      1.6   47.3825
2033     135.1      86.3775       0       1.6      1.6   84.7775
2034      137       89.8025       0       1 6      1.6   88.2025
2035     138.9       93 275       0       1.6      1 6    91.675
2036     140.8       96 795       0       1.6      1.6    95.195
2037     142.7    100.3625        0       1.6      1.6   98.7625
2038     144.6    103.9775        0       1.6      1.6  102.3775
2039     146.5       107.64       0       1.6      1 6    106.04
2040     148.4       111.35       0       1.6      1 6    109.75
2041     150.3    115.1075        0       1.6      1.6  113.5075
2042     152.2    118.9125        0       1.6      1.6  117.3125
Internal Rate of Return                                       22%
Net Present Value in Millions (Discount rate of 10 %)       $93.91
Note: The series from 2021 to 2033 appears broken in order to make this table fit on one page. The entire series is
available in the Project File.



Project: praisal Document                                                                              .J3ge 40
Country El Salvador                                                               Project Title Secondary Educaborn Reform
Table 4.4. Total Social Cost and Benefit Streams of Access and Quality.
SOCIAL NET BENEFITS SOCIAL NET BEN. SOCIAL NET BEN.
ACCESS                 QUALITY           TOTAL
Year_  _       _        $ Million              $ Million         $ Million
1998         Yearl                   -2.329945            -3.3498         -5.679745
1999         Year2                    -7.57467           -16.0075         -23.58217
2000         Year3                  -13.985798           -14.5516        -28 537398
2001         Year4                  -19 984793            -5.4479        -25.432693
2002         Year5                  -19.473804             -1.179        -20.652804
2003         Year6                  -13.812879             4 115          -9.697879
2004         Year7                   -9.834325             6 115          -3.719325
2005         Year8                   -5.756019            8.1625           2.406481
2006         Year9                   -1.577964           10.2575           8.679536
2007         Year10                   2.699841_              12.4         15.099841
2008         Year11                   7 077396              14.59         21.667396
2009         Year12                  11.554701           16 8275          28.382201
2010         Year13                  16 131756           19. fu25         35.244256
2011         Year14                  20.808561            21 445          42.253561
2012         Year15                  25.585116            23 825          49 410116
2013         Year16                  30.461421           26.2525          56 713921
2014         Yearl7                  35.437476           28.7275          64.164976
2015         Year18                  40.513281             31.25          71.763281
2016         Year19                  45.688836             33.82          79.508836
2017         Year2O                  50.964141           36.4375          87.401641
2018      _Year2l                    56 339196           39.1025          95.441696
2019         Year22                  61.814001            41.815         103.629001
2020         Year23                  67 388556            44.575         111.963556
2021         Year24                  73.062861           47 3825         120.445361
2033         Year36                 148.935025           84.7775         233.712525
2034         Year37                 155.906075           88.2025         244.108575
2035         Year38                 162.976885            91.675         254.651885
2036         Year39                 170.147435            95 195         265.342435
2037         Year4O                 177.417745           98.7625         276.180245
2038         Year4l          ___   184.787795           102 3775         287.165295
2039         Year42                 192 257605            106 04         298.297605
2040         Year43                 199 827155            109.75         309.577155
2041         Year44                 207.496465          113.5075         321.003965
2042         Year45                 215.265515          117.3125         332.578015
Internal Rate of Return                       17%                22%               19%
NPV (Discount rate of 10 %)         $ Million 135.67    $ Million 93.91  $ Million 260.61
Note The series from 2021 to 2033 appears broken in order to make this table fit on one page. The entire series is
available in the Project File.



Prject Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 41
Country El Salvador                                                            Project Title Secondary Educaton Reform
IV. Bibliography of Studies Cited in the Economic Analysis
1. Bedi, Arjun Singh, and John H.Y. Edwards. "The Impact of School Quality on the Level and Distribution of
Earnings - Evidence from Honduras. " LASHD Paper Series No. 13, May 1997.
2. Glewwe, Paul. "The relevance of standard estimates of rates of return to schooling for education policy: A
critical assessment." Journal of Development Economics, Vol. 51 (1996), pp. 267-290.
3. Koenker, R. and G. Basset. "Regression Quantiles." Econometrica, 46 (1978), pp. 33-50.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 42
Country El Salvador                                                           Project Title Secondary Education Reform
Annex 5
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Financial Summary
(US$ Million)
Financial Summary
Table 5.1. Project Cost and Financing
(US$ Million)
lmplemenattion Period                  Operational Period
1998   1999   2000 1 2001   2002  - 2003 1 2004    2005   2006   2007
Project Costs (US$ million)   X
InvestmentCosts    l   7.1   21.91   19.3   11.1    6.8      0       0       0]     0]      0
Recurrent Costs       0.5    1.3    2.5    3.3    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2
Total              7.6   23.2   21.8   14.4   10.0    3.2    3.2            3.2     3.2    3.2
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IBRD/IDA         r  81%    81%    78%]  71%    58%          0%     0%      0%     0%      0%
Government        l  19% 1  19%    22%]  29%    42%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%
Total            100% I100%   100%] 100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%
Overview. In the 1980s, education expenditures declined sharply both in terms of its share of GDP (from 3.3% in 1978
to 1.6% in 1988) and of government expenditures (from 28% in the early 1970s to about 11% in 1990). This was
partially the result of the war that entailed an overall drop of government expenditures (which fell from 20% of GDP to
15% in 1994), but also from the low priority assigned by the Government to the sector. While education spending has
increased in recent years to 2.0% of GDP in 1996 and to 13% of government expenditures in 1994, still represents a
significant underinvestment in human capital. Compared to other Central American contras, only Guatemala spends a
lower share of GDP on education, and considerable scope exists for further increasing its budgetary allocation. [See
Table 5.2]. Since 1989, the Government has made great progress in rehabilitating the education system, concentrating
on basic education. Higher enrollments and completion rates at the primary level, coupled with a growing demand for
skilled labor has started pressuring the secondary level where coverage is quite low and the curriculum inadequate to
prepare entrants to the labor market. To address these issues, the GOES' development plan aims to raise education
spending to 3% of GDP and the budgetary share of the social sector from 30.2% in 1995 to 50% by 1999.
Table 5.2. Comparison: Public Education Expenditures
Public          Government Expenditures as Percentage of
Expenditures as                Public Expenditures
Percentage of GDP
(1993-94 circa)
______                                ~~~~~YEAR
Costa Rica           5.0                   19                     1991
Guatemala            1.7                   16                     1995
Honduras             4.2                   15                     1992
El Salvador          1.8                   13                     1994
Nicaragua            4.3                   18                     1992
Mexico               3.8                   14                     1991
Panama               5.3                   17                     1992



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 43
Country El Salvador                                                           Project Tite Secondary Education Reform
The education sector does not have major inefficiencies of resource allocation across sub-sectors. However, within sub-
sectors there are severe imbalances. In secondary education, more than 90% of recurrent expenditures are for salaries,
leaving little for learning materials, maintenance, and other less fixed but equally important categories. There are also
serious equity issues in resource allocation. Expenditures in secondary education have a significant urban bias, with
nearly half of the resources being spent in the Department of San Salvador, which has less than one-third of the
secondary school enrollment.
Projections. Even under conservative growth assumptions for GDP and public expenditures in education, the fiscal
burden of the project is small and manageable [Table 5.3]. The total cost of the project amounts to less than 2% of the
estimated education sector expenditures during the implementation phase, and to under half of one percent afterwards.
Estimates by year show that the impact of the project on the MOE budget would not represent an excessive burden at any
point during project implementation. Any projections based on higher growth rates would yield a reduced fiscal impact
of the project.
Overall, proposed expenditures under the project are budgeted to be predominantly investment expenditures rather than
recurrent costs. Approximately $66 million or 86% of project costs are for investments while $10 million are slated for
incremental recurrent costs. This ensures, first, that project funds will supplement available resources and activities in
the sector, and second, the likelihood that the MINED will sustain recurrent expenditures generated by the project after
the implementation period.
Table 5.3. Financial Impact of the Project
(1990 Constant Prices)
1997  1991    1999  2000  2001   2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007
GDP                    5.9   6.3   6.6    6.9   7.3   7.8   8.2   8.7   9.2    9.7   10.3
US$ billions
Central Gov't         118.0  126.0  145.2  165.6  190.0  203.0  213.2  226.2  239.2  252.2  268.0
Education Budget
(US$ millions)
Education Budget as    2.0   2.0   2.2   2.4   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6    2.6
Share of GDP (%)
Project Cost
Investment                   7.1   21.9   19.3   11.1   6.8     0      0      0      0      0
Recurrent                    0.5    1.3   2.5   3.3   3.2    3.2   3.2    3.2   3.2   3.2
Total (US$ millions)          7.6   23.2  21.8   14.4  10.0   3.2   3.2    3.2   3.2   3.2
Project Cost as Share        0.6%   1.6%   1.3%   0.7%   0.5%   0.2%   0.1%   0.1%   0.1%   0.1%
of Education Budget
Note: Assumes that GDP grows at an average of 5.5% between 1997 and 2007, and that central education budget grows
at nearly 6% per annum.
Net present value. The net present value (NPV) of GOES coparticipation in the project, and repayment of loan with
interest and commitment charges is estimated to be US$27.3 million and US$39.7 million, respectively, for a total of
US$67.0 million. The NPV of project-generated taxes is estimated at US$13.2 million. The NPV of the fiscal impact of
the project is thus estimated at US$53.7 million. Applying a deadweight loss parameter of 20%7, the resulting NPV of
the fiscal impact of the project is estimated at US$64.4 million. It was not possible to estimate additional tax revenues
from indirect taxes such as the value added tax or import duties, and therefore this is a conservative upper bound estimate
of increased fiscal revenues due to the higher income and consumption of secondary school graduates.
7This default figure was used due to absence of better information.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                          Page 44
Countiy. El Salvador                                                                                                                           Project Title Secondary Education Reform
Table 5.4. Fiscal Impact (UJS$ million)
OUTFLOWS                                                 INFLOWS FROM  AXS                 TOTAL
GENERATED                    GOES
OVERALL PROJECr'                       GOES PROJECTr                           GOES PROJECr'                 TOTAL    FORMAL    DISTANCE   TOTAL               NET OF
70 COST                           CO-PARTICIPATION                           REPAYMENT                  JGOES         EDUC          EDUC.                   iAXES
1998    710           ~0352       762          1 33         0 13       1 46          120              0 00      120        2 66         000           0 00      0 00          2 66
8909  ~~~~02~~9     020 , ;1,22.1          .220         -0,2,       8             2 67      ~      0.80      2.67,      379         000            000o      0.00          579.
2000           19 30          251        2181          260          IIl        3 71          3 26             0 00      3 26       6 97        0 00           0 00      0800          6971
2061  1  330  1440       1220        4214  . ~~~~~~~~~~.44     7,40 _______ 000 ~~~~~     3436       70          0103           00          3           7961
2002            6890          3 20       10 00         046          3 20       3 66          3 63             0 00      3 63       7 29         014           0i12      0 26          7 03
,2003                   3~~~~~~~120i __ 20 _ _0.00,           320  __310               3-30  __      _   S3       KU .2     1)42          DM4           017       0.72         -to70
2004                          3 20        3 20         0 00         3 20       3 20          3 09             4083      7 92,     1112          0 61          0 46      1 06         1006
______                320  ___ ~~~            ~~~32  (0:OQ  3.220  _     3,20D       2r              *9___43    T7621    100            077           0.64      140      _ 941
2006                          3 20        3 20         0 00        3 20        3 20          2 49             4083      7 32      1052         0 93           000o      1 73          800o
2-07                7           20 i_   31             00           3,2~__020  1249 ZO                   4__493 ___   2           10,722        3.09           90:%     05_            820
2008                          3 20        3 20         0 00        3 20       3 20           1 89             4083      6 72       992          1 25          112       2 37          7335
200                           3102        310          0.00         3.20      3.20           059              4,03,    6A42        962          141           F.29      269           6.93
2010                          3 20        3 20         0 00        3 20       3 20           1 29             4 83      612        932          157           1 44      3 0i          6 31
_201_                           .30__32            _ -9  ..72.20                   0          090,  4___    403           58          0173                      I86~_   33               6
20I1                         _~~~~~~~,2 1   _-I-         _                                  _   _  _                   _  _ 5 1  01
2012                          3 20        3 20         0 00         3 20      3 20           0 68             4 83      5 51         711        1089          1 76      3 66          5 06
____                    ~~~~~~~~~3.201_    320   0.0                310. 320           0.30             CO_ ~3     54f       045         72 '            0.92   _  798           4.44
2014                          3 20        3 20         0 00        3 20       3 20           0 00             4 86      4 94       8 14        2 22           2 08      4 30          3894
~~0i3    _____  ,   320  ___~~4.i 31          .000       320       '310            0 00,           '000       000       320'      2230              2,24      4,62    ~ .I42
2016                          3 20        3 20         0 00        3 20        3 20          0 00             0 00      0 00       3 20        2354           240       494           -1 74
3-26   _   3120'        0.00         3.26       3120          000              9,00      0.00       3:20         2,70           27_6  __ 320          -246
2018                          3 20        3 20         0 00        3 20        3 20          0 00             0 00      0 00       3 20        2086           2 72      358          .2 38
2010                   1~~~.20 _   42           0 3.2                   20           0004 00                            .320.(7202                 4 6          $490         -2.70
NPV  1                          ~~74.45                              27.25                                     39.711    66.97         69             66       13.U          53.72
NOTE: PV obtained by discounting flows at 10%; GOES participation is net of IVA; IVA of 13% represents transfer of
resources; incomes below 22,000 colones/year (US$2,514) are exempted from taxes; incomes from basic education
graduates average $19,824 colones/year (US$2,266); incomes from secondary education graduates average $30,000
colones/year (US$ 3,429) and are taxed at 1 0% flat after subtracting $22,000 base colones



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 45
Country. El Salvador                                                          Project Title Secondary Education Reform
Annex 6
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Social Assessment
Objectives and Methodology
1. The Social Assessment (SA) was phased in two parts, the first taking place during project preparation, the second to
be undertaken during project implementation. Activities during preparation included: (a) workshops with primary
stakeholders; (b) consultation with the Education Committee of the National Congress by the Minister and Vice-Minister
of Education, the National Director of Education, and the task manager for the project, to present the main ideas of the
project and discuss the participation of civil society during its implementation; and (c) a consultation process with ninth
grade students to find out their expectations about secondary education. Activities to be carried out at the outset of
project implementation will provide baseline information to establish qualitative performance indicators for participatory
monitoring processes.
2. Six focus groups with students enrolled in both public and private schools were organized in rural and urban areas.
About seventy students were consulted, with equal number of girls and boys. Ninth grade students were chosen because,
first, they are the ones who would immediately benefit from the project, and, second, they could be consulted at the
precise moment they make their choice about enrolling or leaving the education system. Also, their ideas on the value of
secondary education represent most typically those that pervade the Salvadoran society, particularly its poorest groups.
TIhese results complemented quantitative data on the characteristics of the demand for secondary education that were
gathered through a household survey and which were already analyzed as part of the project's documentation. Results
from the household survey point to a strong relationship between family income and enrollment in secondary education.
Results
3. Explicitly or indirectly, poor students who reach the ninth grade consider themselves survivors. They feel that they
have overcome immense obstacles, including the school system itself. Born and raised during the civil war, they have
experienced violence and poverty since early childhood. Besides, the education offered to them before the 1995 Basic
Education Reform did not motivate them to carry on their studies. Time and again they pointed out that repetition was
constant, that the costs of uniforms, books, and school materials were too high for their families' incomes, and that
dropping out was an easy decision.
4. Families were disorganized and many of the students, particularly in the eastem region, were left behind by parents
who had fled to the United States in search of income opportunities. Often, their sisters got pregnant and never again
returned to school. "My sister had to leave school when she was thirteen. She was in the sixth grade. " "My brother
abandoned school in the seventh grade to live with his girlfriend" "My sister left school because she was pregnant."
Stories of drug abuse and juvenile gangs are common. Known in El Salvador as "maras," these gangs are a powerful
competitor to schools: they provide easy money, peer approval and a sense of pride. Brothers who became "drogadictos"
were often referred to as those who now "prefer to live the street life." Increasingly gangs are organizing within the
schools, and street fights among gangs are more and more common.
5. Only half the students live with both parents. Particularly in the eastern region, it is common to find students living
with relatives. In one focus group in San Salvador, all the children live in female-headed-households. Frequently
mothers are domestic servants or street vendors. Fathers, when present, are rural workers, manual workers, or smal'
shopkeepers in urban areas. Almost always, the parents' level of education is lower than their children's level of
education. Some of the parents never went to school. None of them have university degrees, and few ever went to
secondary schools.
6. Except for those whose parents live in the United States, all the students who were consulted are working. Those in
private schools, who usually have a higher family income, work during school vacations. In the rural areas, in general,



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 46
Country El Salvador                                                           Project Tite Secondary Education Reform
they receive no payment, since they work for their parents in what is considered familv help and is a natural obligation.
In urban areas, they work for money. They consider working and studying at the same time as tiring and difficult,
especially in urban areas, because of the time spent commuting. Between studying and working, they do not hesitate to
say that studying is better. Many, however, will not choose to stay in school because they need the money, schooling is
costly and time consuming, and time has high opportunity costs for the poor.
7. Students have a positive image about the education system and about schools, which "prepare them for life." Thus,
the main reasons to enroll are to get a better job and to help their parents by paying back what is viewed as their sacrifice.
However, the life they dream of is realistically limited: "Nowadays to get any presentable joh, you need to have a
secondary education. Imagine, even to collect the garbage, they require the ninth grade...." Not all the students expect
to continue studying through the secondary level. Some manifest a desire for independence. This is more frequent
among boys who want to have a regular income. Second, and frequent among girls, they want to get married; they
sometimes deliberately get pregnant to leave home. Third, the costs of education are considered very high. Prices of
books, uniforms and buses are constantly mentioned as obstacles to education. Fourth, schools are time consuming,
conflicting with constraints posed by the labor market. Time spent with homework, group work, and visits to librar;es
are considered incompatible with having a regular job. Fifth, some parents are not willing to support them anymoic.
This especially affects the older children who are supposed to help and give way to their younger siblings.
8. Students are adequately informed about the pilot scholarship program managed by the Fundaci6n Empresarial para el
Desarrollo Educativo (FEPADE). According to them, scholarships are the best opportunity given to poor students to
enroll in secondary schools. Only with a scholarship "can the poor overcome their circumstances. " However, they
believe that only students with special characteristics deserve this benefit, which should be based on: (a) economic need,
(b) good grades, (c) willingness to study, (d) demonstrated good social behavior, and (e) responsibility. As one
commented, "The government must have detailed information on the students to define to whom to grant the
scholarships. "
The Impatt of Parents' Immigration
As a result of the civil war and poverty, many parents wem forced to look for alteative sources of income in the U nited
States. They left their children behind, which gave rise to a new generation of youngsters in El Salvador. Unlike others,
they were raised without the authority and the love of their parents. Also unlike others, they were raised with a regular
source of income and stability. Their main expectation is to go to the United States "'irme a los Estadas"). Clearly they
manipulate their parents' guilt by adopting a consumption pantern similar to middle-class Americans. walkmen, CD
players, Nikes, and expensive jeans and shirts. Among those consulted, they made up the only group that did not work
and that did not show any interest in thinking about either a future job or a future education. Some of them might
continue to study but only if the parents continue to pay for schools and provide support for everything else.
9. Gender bias exists within this age group. There is no consensus about gender equity, and girls frequently say that
educational opportunities should be given to boys instead since in the future they would be the ones responsible for
generating income. Girls tend to see marriage as their destiny, a destiny not requiring much education. Gender bias also
prevails in careers, particularly at the technical secondary level, with jobs such as secretaries and nurses defined as for
females and others, such as mechanics, defined as for males.
Conclusions and Recommendations
10. To fulfill the demand for education and meet the needs of the poorest children, it is important to integrate coverage
actions with quality actions. Additional schools, even if closer to students' homes, would not resolve access issues
because students would still need to work. On the other hand, actions to improve quality without creating opportunities
for increased access would only benefit those who were already enrolled. Actions to increase access should be flexible
enough to attend to the diversity of socioeconomic backgrounds among the poor: distance education for those who need
the income generated by a full-time job, and scholarships for those who need financial support to cover the costs of fees,



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 47
Country El Salvador                                                             Project Title Secondary Educabon Reform
books, and transportation However, these actions would not be enough if a different type of school does not emerge.
This new school cannot require children to spend hours of their time on a bus to reach a library. Students need access to
electronic libraries and Internet; and they need a new curriculum that better responds to the needs of the modern labor
market. The technical secondary curriculum should not focus on teaching skills for occupations that might disappe. r in
the near future. It should provide students with basic tools that will enable them to be flexible and adaptable to a
changing technological environment.
11. Results from the Social Assessment also pointed out disturbing gender bias among students, early and deliberate
pregnancies, juvenile gangs, and an anomic attitude among those whose parents emigrated to the United States.
Although addressing these issues is often beyond the reach of the education system, the education system should not
remain silent. The Ministry of Education (MINED) should take the lead on gaining a serious and non-judgmental
understanding of the youth culture in El Salvador. The involvement of young people in this diagnosis is crucial if
remedies are to be sought and found.



Proect Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 48
Country El Salvador                                                                    Project rle Secondary Education Reform
Annex 7
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                                               Consulting
ICB          NCB          Other        Services       Total
1. Civil works                             17.8          0.7 ")                      18.5
(10.7)        (0.4)                      (I 1.1)
2. Goods
a. Equipment and              7.3           0.7          0.9(b)                      8.9
furniture                    (6.6)         (0.6)         (0.8)                      (8.0)
b. Computing                  3.2                        0.3                         3.5
equipment                    (3.0)                       (0.2)                       (3.2)
c. Vehicles                                              0.4'aj                      0.4
(0.4)                      (0.4)
d. Didactic materials                                    I.-+                         4.4
and library books                                        (4.2)                       (4.2)
e. Social Formative                                      1.2(f)                       1.2
Program                                                  (1.0)                       (1.0)
3. Consultants'
services and MINED's                                                  14.4(g)        14.4
fixed-term consultants                                                (13.5)        (13.5)
4. Training tn)                                                        10.9          10.9
l_________ l_________ l_________            (10.9)        (10.9)
5. Miscellaneous
a. Information                                                         2.3           2.3
campaigns                                                              (2.3)         (2.3)
b. Printing and                             0.9           0.2                         1.1
distribution services                      (0.8)         (0.1)                       (0.9)
c. Scholarships                                          3.0"'                       3.0
(0.8)                      (0.8)
d. Operation and                                          1.4                         1.4
maintenance of schools                                   (0.4)                      (0.4)
and equipment
e. Salaries and                                          6.9u)                       6.9
operating costs,                                         (1.2)                      (1.2)
including office
supplies
Total                         10.5          19.4         19.3          27.6          77.1
(9.6)        (12.1)       (12.7)        (26.7)        (58.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank, excluding
contingencies, taxes and duties. Totals may not add due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 49
Country El Salvador                                                           Project Tite- Secondary Education Reform
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements.
(Footnotes, continuedfrom Table A)
(a). Lump-sum, fixed-price contracts to be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified dome-,tic
contractors in response to a written invitation. Includes $290,000 of direct annual transfers of funds to CDEs (not to
exceed $25,000 each), for contracting minor works and corrective maintenance to benefit eight schools. No International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) for civil works is expected in the project
(b) Shopping procedures.
(c) Includes an aggregate amount of $300,000 for small purchases of computing equipment and software, in contracts
less than $50,000 equivalent each, using international shopping procedures.
(d) Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures for purchases of 13 vehicles from international suppliers with
technical and maintenance services established in El Salvador.
(e) Library books and resource didactic materials for curriculum development to be contracted: (i) basic libraries under
ICB two-stage procedures, as described in Procurement Guidelines, para. 2.6, and (b) library books to update basic
libraries to be procured through direct contracting by schools, in contracts no larger than $4,000, from editorial homes
and authors holding the proprietary/copy rights of books selected, as described in para. 3.7 of the same Guidelines, up to
an aggregate amount of $2.9 million. Selection of books to update libraries will be done through a list of titles approved
by MINED.
(f) Criteria for selection of activities in this program will be included in an annex of the POM.
(g) Includes contracts awarded on the basis of consultants' qualifications method to firms, as described in para. 3.27 of
Consultant Guidelines, and individuals, as described in Chapter V of the same Guidelines, up to an aggregate of $1.3
million and $1.7 million, equivalent, respectively. Includes $6.3 million equivalent for scholarships administration, and
technical assistance (TA) to be provided to FEPADE, ITCA, UCA, and FISDL under their respective implementation
agreements with MINED in accordance with annual disbursement programs. Other consultants' contracts by QCBS,
including contracts with procurement agents to be selected as described in para. 3.15.
(h) Includes cost of rental of space. and equipment, travel costs and per diem of MINED's staff providing training amid of
participants and/or recipients of training, training materials, fees to training institutions, study tours, seminars and other
related activities, except for contracts of technical assistance to design courses and workshops and provision of training
to be awarded to firms under QCBS and consultants' qualifications (para. 3.37 of Guidelines) and individuals (Chapter
V, Guidelines), up to an aggregate of $600,000 and $100,000, respectively. Includes $2.3 million for training activities
under execution by UCA and ITCA under their agreements, and contracts under QCBS of approximately $2.1 million
(i) Scholarships to be awarded on the basis of criteria included in the Scholarships Manual.
0) Maintenance of computing, office, audiovisual and laboratory equipment, vehicles, and office and laboratory supplies
financed by IBRD under the project. Figure includes $1.0 million for direct contracting by CDEs for maintenance
materials and supplies of schools. Annual transfers of funds to CDEs for these purchases are estimated at an average cost
of $3,000 each, with eligibility criteria and disbursement procedures to be detailed in implementation agreements with
MINED and in the POM.
Procedures
Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on procurement of
goods, works and services -- Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, as revised
Jan./Aug. 1997), and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997).
When ICB procedures are used, national preference will apply to goods manufactured in El Salvador, as specified in
Appendix 2 of the Guidelines.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will include: (a) awards to lowest evaluated bidder, (b) foreign bidders shall be
allowed to bid and not required to be registered in El Salvador to participate in NCB, and shall be carried out according
to procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 50
Country. El Salvador                                                       Project Tile Secondary Educator Reform
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ '000)
Category          Contract Value       Procurement       Contract Subject to
l T  (Threshold)    |      Method        I   Prior Review
1. Civil Works
Construction and    250-3,000            NCB                  First contracts for
rehabilitation      < 250                Lump-sum, fixed-     construction, and
priced, at least 3  rehabilitation.
quot.:
None
2. Goods
Computing           >50                  ICB                  All
equipment and                                                 All
vehicles            <50                  International        None
shopping
School and office   >250                 ICB                  All
equipment and       50 - 250             NCB                  First NCB contract for
furniture                                                     office equipment, and
first contract for
school furniture.
<50                 National shopping    None
Materials for school  <3                 Direct contracting by   None
maintenance and                          CDEs
schools supplies
Printing services   50 - 250             NCB                  First contract
<50                 National shopping    None
Library books       >250                 ICB 2 step, Basic    All
Libraries
<4                  Direct contracting by   None
schools.
3. Consultants' Services
Selection according to Consultant Guidelines (Jan. 97)
Consulting firms    >200                 QCBS                 All (including full
and procurement                                               review of technical
agents                                                       evaluations)
>100                QCBS                 All
<100                Consultants'         Bi-annual program
Qualifications (para.   and all amendments
3.7)                to contracts >100,000
Individuals         <50                  Qualif. Individual   Bi-annual program;
(Chap. V)           and all for contracts
and all amendments
to contracts above
>50,000.
Prior review arrangement outlined above will result in ex-ante review by the Bank of approximately 60% of all Bank-
financed contracts by value. Concurrent quarterly audits will be carried out during the life of the project to cover direct
contracting procedures carried out by CDEs and schools in the procurement of books for basic libraries, as well as other
financial transactions to be conducted by implementing agencies (FEPADE, ITCA, FISDL, and UCA).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 51
Country El Salvador                                                          Projectlitle Secondary Educabon Reform
Documents
All standard documentation on procurement and consultants, except for small works, is now in use by MINED
under the ongoing Basic Education Project (Ln. 3945-ES).
For ICB and LIB. Standard Bidding Documents: Procurement of Goods, as published by the Bank.
For NCB. Standard bidding documents for goods and works based on the Bank's SBDs. MINED will submit by
negotiations a draft document for small works for contracts for construction and rehabilitation.
Consultants' Contracts. Bank's Standard Contracts (lump sum or time-based); Standard Request for Proposals (RFP),
which includes (a) Letter of Invitation (LOI), with or without price as selection criteria); and (b) Information to
Consultants (ITC); simplified forms of contracts for small contracts with firms and individuals, as agreed with the Bank
for Ln. 3945-ES.
MINED's procurement capacity:
In the case of goods and consultants' services: MINED has had substantial experience in procurement with IBRD
financing under the ongoing Basic Education Project and the completed Social Sector Rehabilitation Project. OPCI
(MINED's financial and administrative division) is staffed with qualified and experienced professionals, who will be in
charge of coordinating, implementing and supervising the Procurement Plan for the project. OPCI will carry out NCB
procurement and contract consultants' services. In addition, a procurement agent (UNDP will be the PA for the first-
year) will conduct all intemational procurement of books for basic libraries, equipment and vehicles.
In the case of civil works: MINED's technical staff in the Infrastructure Division (ID) is experienced in local
contracting and will be responsible for coordinating and supervising civil works for construction and rehabilitation
mostly procured through NCB, and minor works procured by CDEs. External technical assistance of local firms will be
contracted to support preparation of feasibility studies for civil works and other supervision of works activities.
MINED's ID will be strengthened to assist overall supervision of works by MINED with long-term technical assistdnce.
Rehabilitation contracts will be contracted through a procurement agent, initially FISDL, under its implementation
agreement with MINED.
The Project Operational Manual (POM) now used by OPCI will be reviewed to include specific procedures for
procurement, disbursement and auditing agreed for the project implementation in MINED and each implementing
agency, including operational procedures with the procurement agent.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 52
Country El Salvador                                                        Project Tile Secondary Educabon Reform
Disbursements
Table C describes the categories of disbursement in the project. Disbursement will not be made for works, goods and
services that have been procured from ineligible sources or that have not been procured according to the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines and Consultant guidelines.
Table C. Disbursements
Expenditure Category     Allocation of Loan Amount   Percentage to be financed
(US$)
1. Civil Works                                                   60%
a. Construction                  3,000,000
b. Rehabilitation                9,000,000
2. Equipment, vehicles,            14,000,000          100% of foreign expenditures,
furniture, didactic materials,                         and 85% of local expenditures
and printing and
distribution services
3. Consultants' services            14,000,000         100% of foreign expenditures
and 85% of local expenditures
4. Training                         9,000,000                    100%
5. Social Formative                 1,000,000                     85%
Program
6. Scholarships                       800,000          75% until the aggregate
amount of US$200,000 has
been reached; 50% until the
aggregate amount of
US$500,000 has been
reached; and 30% thereafter
7. Operation and                    1,000,000          75% until the aggregate
maintenance of schools                                 amount of US$300,000 has
been reached; 50% until the
aggregate amount of
US$700,000 has been
reached; and 30% thereafter
8. Incremental operating             1,000,000         75% until the aggregate
costs                                                  amount of US$500,000 has
been reached; 50% until the
aggregate amount of
US$800,000 has been
reached; and 30% thereafter
9. Unallocated                      5,200,000
TOTAL                              58,000,000



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 53
Country El Salvador                                                           Project Title Secondary Educabon Reform
Administration of Disbursements.
MOF will provide sufficient funds to operate the project through a revolving account (fondo rotatorio) to be opened so
the project may be administered by MINED in accordance with terms and conditions established in the OM. Transfers
of funds to CDEs for minor works, school maintenance and purchases of school materials would be made in accordance
with agreed mechanisms for procurement disbursement and auditing included in the agreements signed by CDEs with
MINED. Disbursements for ICB contracts of goods and QCBS contracts with consultants which cost more than
$200,000, and contracts for rehabilitation of civil works will be administered by selected procurement agents, initially
UNDP and FISDL, under annual programs and selection procedures, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements for NCB contracts for goods and other contracts with firms and individuals, which cost less than $100,000
and $50,000, respectively, will be handled by OPCI. For the scholarships program, disbursements will be made by
OPCI in accordance with the mechanism agreed with the executing entity, satisfactory to the Bank.
Retroactive Financing:
Retroactive financing will be necessary in the amount of $200,000 to advance the preparation of feasibility studies in
support of the physical infrastructure component and other preparatory technical assistance activities.
Use of Statement of Expenses (SOEs)
Contracts for works, except for the first contracts for construction and rehabilitation.
Contracts for goods and printing and distribution services less than 250,000.
Contracts for books to update basic libraries to be procured by schools.
Contracts for consultants less than $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals.
Expenditures related to training activities.
Operating and maintenance costs for schools incurred by CDEs.
Operational costs of office equipment, vehicles and computing equipment, as well as office supplies financed under the
project.
Scholarships.
Special Account:
For expenses in the project, a Special Account will be opened in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank, with an
authorized allocation of $2.7 million. The Special Account would be replenished monthly in order to maintain liquidity
and to report on the use of funds. Replenishment applications would be accompanied by reconciled bank statements
reflecting transactions made from the account and claimed in the respective applications.
Closing Date: June 30, 2003.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 54
Country. El Salvador                                                         Project Title Secondary Educalior. Reform
Annex 8
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
157.5               252.8*
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         13                   13
First Bank mission (Identification)            09/25/1995           09/25/1995
First Preparation Mission                      11/11/1996            11/11/1996
Appraisal mission departure                    06/30/1997            06/30/1997
Negotiations                                   07/22/1997           07/28/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  12/30/1997
Prepared by: Ministry of Education (MINED)
Preparation assistance: Japanese Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Core Team Members: Madalena R. dos Santos (TM), Andrea Guedes, John Edwards, Carolyn
Winter, Cynthia Hobbs, Valeria Junho Pena, Diane Steele, Rosita Estrada, Ricardo Silveira, Yael
Duthilleul, Eleanor Secireiber.
Consultants: Alberto Zuniga, Maria Elena Anderson, Richard Moore, Thereza Lobo.
Peer Reviewers: Paulo Viera da Cunha (Economist), George Psacharopoulos (Economist),
William Experton (Sr. HR Economist), Eduardo Velez (Sr. Education Specialist).
* Includes $177.3 from the Japanese Trust Fund for preparation studies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 55
Country El Salvador                                                         Prqect Title: Secondary Education Reform
Annex 9
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
MINEDUC, 1997. "El Salvador. Proyecto Reforma de la Educaci6n Media."
B. Bank Staff and Consultant Assessments
Edwards, John, 1997. "El Salvador: Estimating New School Infrastructure Needs to 2007"
Edwards, John, 1997. "El Salvador: Secondary Education Project - Standardized Test Results"
Edwards, John, 1997. "El Salvador: Secondary Education Project - School Choice under an Evolving
Public/Private Schooling Mix"
Edwards, John and Guerrero, Cesar, 1997. "The Cost of Secondary Education in El Salvador"
Edwards, John and Parandekar, Suhas, 1997. "El Salvador: Secondary Education Project - Internal Efficiency
Estimates from the Household Survey (1996-II)"
Edwards, John, 1996. "El Salvador: Secondary Education Project - Results from the Household Survey"
Guerrero, Cesar, 1996. "Study of Unit Costs of Secondary Education in El Salvador"
Junho Pena, Valeria, 1997. "Evaluaci6n Social: Analisis de las Expectativas de los Aspirantes a Bachillerato"
Lamb, Gene, 1997. "Vocational Education Study - El Salvador"
Samayoa, Joaquin, 1997. "Cambios en el Curriculum de Educaci6n Media en El Salvador"
World Bank, 1997. Education Background Notes on Secondary Education in El Salvador
World Bank, 1996. "Moving to a Gender Approach in El Salvador"
World Bank, 1994. "El Salvador Community Education Strategy: Decentralized School Management"
C. Other
FEPADE, 1997. "Secondary Graduates and the Labor Market"
Harvard University, 1994. "Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos de El Salvador." (Report)
Ministerio de Educaci6n, 1995. "Educaci6n de El Salvador en Cifras 1995"
Ministry of Planning, 1993. "Plan de Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social, 1994-1999."
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 56
Country: El Salvador                                                             Project rile Secondary Educaton Reform
Annex 10
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations
Loan/        Fiscal                                                                        Closing
Credit       Year       Borrower       Purpose         Bank       IDA    Undisbursed        Date
Credits                                                            27.99
4 Credit(s)
Closed
Total Number of Credits =0                                            0.00            0.00
Loans                                                    440.70                    1.23
25 Loan(s)
Closed
33890         1992                  Power TAL             11.00                    1.78    03/31/98
3576A         1993                  Ag. Sec. Reform       24.19                   20.51    12/3 i/99
and Inv.
39200        1996                  Energy Sector          65.00                   65.00    06/30/00
39460        1996                   Competitiveness       16.00                   13.67    06/30/99
______________________       E nha.                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
39450        1996                  Basic Education        34.00                   19.08    06/30/01
39820        1996                   Land                  50.00                   47.87    06/30/02
Administration
40820         1997                  Public Sector         24.00                   22.17    08/31/01
Modernization    .  .
Total Number of Loans = 7                                  224.19                   190.08
Total***                                      664.89   27.99
of which repaid                               198.96    8.91
Total held by Bank & IDA                      465.93   19.08
Amount              5.1S
Sold
of which            5.15
repaid       _____
Total Undisbursed                                                     191.31|



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                               Page 57
Country  El Salvador                                                                                                     Project Title Secondary Educabon Reform
Annex 11
El Salvador
Secondary Education Project
El Salvador at a glance
Latin  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       El  Amenca  middle-   I
Salvador  & Carib.  income    I Development dlamond-
Population mid-1995 (millons)                          5 8       480    1,154
GNP per capita 1995 (US$)                             1,580     3,300    1,700                 Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions USS)                                 91      1,584    1,962
Average annual growth, 1990-95                                                                       T
Population (96                                          2 2       18        14      GNP            AGross
Labor force (%)                                         3 3       2 4       18      per                              pnmar
Most recent estimate (latestyearavallable since 1989)                              rcapita                        enrolimen
Poverty headcount index(% ofpopulabon)                   38
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                   45        74       56                       1
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         67        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lve births)                  40        41       36                Access to safe water
Child malnutntion (% of children under 5)                22
Access to safe water (% ofpopulafron)                    55        81       78
Illiteracy (% of populabon age 15+)                      29        13                    -     El SaJvador
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of sch -I-age population)     79       110      104
Male                                                   79                105    I        - - Li wwvr-middle-income group
Female                                                 80                101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1994     1995    r
Economic ratioS
GDP (billions USS)                             1 9      3 8       8 1       9 5             c
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 22 1     10 8      18 7      19 1             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP  33 0     22 3      20 1     21 0
Gross domestc savings/GDP                     17 0      3 3       3 8       6 2
Gross national savings/GDP                    161       2 3      15 0      13 6    !                  T
Current account balance/GOP                   -5 1      -6 9      -38B    -2 9    I
Interest payments/GDP                          1 0      2 1       11        1 1    | Savings               -     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                21 9     48 8      27 0      23 8
Total debt service/exports                    16 7     24 7      14 6      95    |
Present value of debt/GDP                                        20 1
Present value of debt/exports                                    69 7                            Indebtedness
1975-84  1985-95     1994      1995  1996-04
(average annual growth)                                                                       El Salvador
GDP                                  -28       41       60        63        64
GNP per capita                       -4 5      2 5      4 2       4 9       43                Lowe3-middle-icome goup
Exports of goods and nfs             -1 9      51      11 1       7 6      103
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1985      1994     1995
(% of GDP)                                                                          Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agnculture                                    35 3     26 9      13 8      13 5      -
Industry                                      26 5     234       23 9      216      15
Manufactunng                                20 0      17 8
Services                                      38 2     49 7      62 3      649 9
-154    v3                      94    9
Private consumption                           71 9     81 2      87 9      85 9     - -31)
General govemment consumpton                  11 2     15 5       8 2       7 9   ,
Imports of goods and non-factor services      38 2     29 9      35 0      342               -
(average annual grsith)                    1975-84  1985-95      1994     1995    | Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agnculture                                    -15       13        -2 4      51      eo
Industry                                      -5 8      2 8       -0 5     -31
Manufactunng                                 -6                 1                  40
Services                                      -16       5 6      10 9      113      20
Private consumpbon                            -3 5      69        7 8       7 0    !                 __      -
General govemment consumption                  1 6      -4 8      3 0       4 5   l   /                 92   93   94   es
Gross domestic investment                     -8 8     11 0       7 9      13 0     -20
Imports of goods and non-factor services      -5 7     12 3      13 2      96 6E-                   oats    Imporls
Gross national product                        -3 1      4 5       6 5       7 4
Note 1995 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                Page 58
Country  El Salvador                                                                                                                   Project Title Secondary Education Seform
El Salvador
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1994      1995
Domestfc prices                                                                      Inflaion (%)
(N change)                                                                           30
Consumerpnces                                  191      223       106       101
Implicit GDP deflator                           9 3     20 3      10 8      12 4
Government finance
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                         17 2       15 2     16 0             so       a    2     3    s     sr
Current budget balance                                   0 9       2 0       3 2              -GDP def  --CPI
Overall surplusldefiat                                   4 3       .1 9      0 9
TRADE
1975     1985      1994      1995
(millions US$)                                                                     I Export and Import levels (mil USS$
Total exports (fob)                                      695       821    1,005      3.WO
Coffee                                                 464       271       362
Cotton                                                  29         0         0
Manufactures                                                     340       406      2000
Total imports (cdf)                                      961     2,252    2,853
Food21                                                           50         3       .0
Fuel and energy                                        133       111       130
Capital gGods                                          155       669       783 
Export pnce index (1987=100)                             104       113      137                            a  92  43  se
Import pnce index (1987=100)                              97       108      114                     Er        a iprts
Temms of trade (1987=100)                                108       104      121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1985      1994      1995
(millons US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP r bo (%l
Exports of goods and non-factor services       593       930     1,198    1,482       0
Imports of goods and non-factor services       673    1,189      2.519    2.86s         |9                    | ss  j s   |n
Resource balance                                -80     -260    -1,321    -1.386     t2
Net factor income                               -40     -117         8       43             |      |
Netcumanttransfers                              25       113     1,001     1,071    I                                          |
Current account balance,                                                              4
before official transfers                     -95     -263       -312     -272
Finanang items (net)                           126       221       455      482      1
Changes in net reserves                        -30        42      -143      -180     -r2
memo ,_I
Reservex including gold (mil uS$)              175       333       788      968
Conversion rate (focarlUSS)                     2 s      3 5       8 8       8 8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1994      19s9
(millions US$)                                                                     |Compsrtion of total debL 1995 (mill US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           412    1,854      2,188    2,264
IBRD                                          41       119       290      307                     G        A
IDA                                           17        26        21       20               F   199       30' 13
Total debt service                             100       259       341      260                                   20
IBRD                                           4        16        36       43
IDA                                            0         0         1        1
Composdion of net resoumre flows
Officaal grants                                5      203         87      105            619
Officialcreditors                             41       119       111       80   I                             /
Pnvate creditors                              11       -50       -60       -31
Foreign direct investment                     13        12        20       19                                 1014
Portfolio equdy                                0         0         0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0         0         0       34      A - IrRD                     E-_ B0tera
Dabursements                                  14        14        70       26      B-IDA      D-OOther molatenrl  F-Fr te
Pnncipal repayments                            2         8        20       22      C - MiF                      G- Shen-bnn
Netflows                                      13         6        50        4   ,
Interest payments                              3         8        17       22
Nettransfers                                  10        -2        33       -18
intemational Economics Department                                                                                       8/20/96
Julie Nannucci
O.\AGUEDES\PAD1 5 DOC
August 6. 1997 7 35 PM



9000'                                          89'30j                                           89'00'                                           88'30'                                           8800'
To Son .1a,,moo /) '
r                               To niacntRas
Iut>    satRs                                                                                                  El SALVADOR
To Puerto Barrios *                     >                                                                                     EL    S         LD
Metapon                   San Ignocia  \                                           0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS            + -    RAILROADS
Laku G,,,1,, L.                                                                                          0    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                    ,    MAIN PORTS
G  U A T E M  AuLtA TOInalaci                                                                                                                   0    NATIONAL CAPITAL                            RIVERS
6qoemclo 4s,v  JU  -A-f? t k I El a--'    PAVED ROADS                =            -  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
Ni                                                 0                     - ~~~~E arial-SECONDARY ROADS            ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
g    candelro-   eit9 C-nCepa    LC H A T E N ANGOA\fv 
To Guate.ala City                                                      R                                   D,
Atquy         C        a       ta         S        Pl                (9 rondo                                                                                      -                                         14'00
--  ~ ~     ~       ~      ~             Tacachico~~~~~~~--   /Rsrr
Tacuba  . Ahua~~~~~p~~,i  Laatepe'
TO E-,sintk)  T H          'a                  SCnnn I                         O                           C    -             3   CABANAS 
Concepci6n de Ataco       ~         -                                                  ~i                                   asneou~~
C           5                                                 "1       '1 ~~~~~~~~~~~Q .. te  lobasco
5yS.. F,azf)1\At.r s >-rO5colacrno 
M q IE  STAIEn OF t eqi                      A r I A Nor         |              50  n                                                                              B             M      R A Z
S-~>     Sn raOn ;5 iCd U..                                                                                                                                                                          Son Fran
G  agu   e Goter 7Ca Iliigucgalp
GUNITEDSTATES OF AMERICA                                                                                                                                                          r /itu,
131301                                                                                             AN              z                                                                                        U N I 0 CAN              30nc
-fELIZE    a                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ki~~~~~~~~~~aLietaL      Mgel-
EL SALVADO   NICA  AGUA                    ,     4          e    9                   0        10       20       30        40       50                                                                                                    10
X    \Panr omr  )ru                                                               KILOMETERS
COSTA c6,A\auoai-              I ! W)                  ;rX                                                                                 P A  CV I F  IC                              O  C  E Al N
4   @        \  ~~VENEZUELA  RL
PANAMAR              r-' i                              The boundaries, colors, denominatonn and any other information
C>      P ACtI,cI C                                          / ' j             KL       shown on thin reap do snot imply, on the port of The World Bank Group,
CO                             t  ~~~~~~~~~~~COLOMBIA  $ -       (>  -\    any ludgeent on heleal status of any territory,or anyendorsement                                                                                                 t
ce      O C F A N                                                                                                                                      U/  <   or ace pnce of usuch boundaries
a1                                          8930 M:                                                                                                                 R f IBRAZIL  89'00  8830   8800 
Jp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N)









IMAGING
Report No.:         16991   ES



