           Document of
          The World Bank




                                    Report No: 36373

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (SCL-42240)

               ON A

               LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$58 MILLION

              TO THE

     REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

              FOR A

  SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT




            June 16, 2006

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                             Currency Unit = US dollar

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               1 January -31 December

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDE            School Directive Counsel (Consejo Directivo Escolar)
CECE           Catholic School (Centro Educativo Católico Escolar)
CRA            Learning Resource Center (Centro de Recursos de Aprendizaje)
EDUCO          Community-Managed Education Program in Rural Areas (Programa Educativo
               con Participación de la Comunidad)
ELDEPROD       Zonal Teacher Networks (Equipos Locales de Desarrollo Profesional Docente)
FEPADE         Business Foundation for Educational Development (Fundación Empresarial para
               el Desarrollo Educativo)
FISDL          Social Investment Fund for Local Development (Fondo de Inversión Social de
               Desarrollo Local)
GOES           Government of El Salvador
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB            Inter American Development Bank
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
ITCA           Central American Technology Institute (Instituto Tecnológico Centroamericano)
MEGATEC        Gradual Educational Model of Technical and Technologic Learning (Modelo
               Educativo Gradual de Aprendizaje Técnico y Tecnológico)
MINED          Ministry of Education
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MIS            Management Information System
NGO            Nongovernmental Organization
PAES           Learning and Skill Test for Students graduating from secondary education
               (Prueba de Aptitudes y Aprendizajes para Egresados de Educacion Media)
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PCU            Project Coordinator Unit
PEI            School Development Plan (Proyecto Educativo Institucional)
SINEA          National Evaluation System of Learning Achievements (Sistema Nacional de
               Evaluación de Aprendizaje)
SMAEL          Modalities System of Local School Administration (Sistema de Modalidades de
               Administración Escolar Local)
UCA            Central American University (Universidad Centroamericana)

                             Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                          Country Director      Jane Armitage
                           Sector Manager       Evangeline Javier
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Andréa Guedes

                                       EL SALVADOR
                              SV SECONDARY EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Borrower's contribution                                                 36
Annex 9. Education Investment Projections                                        54

Project ID: P041680                                                  Project Name: SV SECONDARY EDUCATION
Team Leader: Andrea C. Guedes                                        TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 20, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: SV SECONDARY EDUCATION                                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-42240
   Country/Department: EL SALVADOR                                                        Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (70%); Central government administration (12%); Tertiary education
                            (6%); Sub-national government administration (6%); Other social services (6%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Improving labor markets (P);
                            Access to urban services and housing (P); Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/22/1997                                     Effective: 12/30/1997                08/20/1998
     Appraisal: 06/30/1997                                         MTR:                             10/27/2002
      Approval: 08/28/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of El Salvador (GOES)/Ministry of Education (MINED)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Eduardo Velez Bustillo                         Jamil Salmi
Team Leader at ICR:             Andrea C. Guedes                               Madalena Dos Santos
ICR Primary Author:             Maria R. Puech Fernandez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project aimed to increase coverage of secondary education, building on the successes and demands

generated by the basic education reform process initiated in the first half of the 1990s, and upgrade the
quality of entrants to the labor market to improve the country's competitiveness. The project's development
objective was to expand coverage with improved quality and efficiency of public and private secondary
schools (grades 10-12)(1). Specifically, the project sought to: (a) expand coverage of secondary education,
paying particular attention to students from low income backgrounds; (b) improve the quality of education
through improvements in curriculum, learning materials, infrastructure, students' assessment, school
certification, supervision; and (c) strengthen managerial capacity in secondary education, extending the
ongoing institutional reform work within MINED.

3.2 Revised Objective:

No revisions were made to the project's development objective during the life of the project.


3.3 Original Components:

The total project costs were estimated at US$77.1 million (US$58 million loan and US$19.1 million of
counter-part financing). The project comprised three components and several subcomponents:

Component 1 - Expansion of Access (US$18.6 million, or 24 percent of total project cost). This
component aimed to support the increase of equitable access to secondary education through three main
strategies: (a) establishment of a scholarship program to subsidize student costs, assisting students from
low income families, while encouraging greater participation of the private sector in secondary education;
(b) construction of classrooms and provision of furniture and equipment, expanding secondary education to
regions which did not have secondary schools; and (c) expansion of the distance education programs for
secondary education.

Component 2 - Quality Improvements (US$46.2 million, or 60 percent of total project cost). This
component aimed to promote quality improvement by financing the following investments: (a) curriculum
development, including curriculum revisions, provision of teaching and learning materials, in-service
training for teachers and directors and innovative social formative projects; (b) creation of learning
resource centers (Centros de Recursos de Aprendizaje - CRAs) to improve instruction through the use of
new technology and audio-visual aids; (c) rehabilitation of schools and equipment to support curriculum
developments; (d) development and implementation of a national assessment system at the secondary school
level; and (e) establishment of school accreditation and supervision systems to certify and monitor the
academic and institutional performance of public and private schools.

Component 3 - Institutional Strengthening (US$9.2 million, or 12 percent of total project cost). This
component aimed to support the Government's ongoing efforts to modernize and strengthen the managerial
capacity in education, with emphasis on secondary education. The component would support: (i)
management modernization at the central and departmental levels; (ii) training of school councils (CDEs ­
Consejos de Desarrollo Escolar) and provision of funds to be administered at the school level; and (iii)
promotion of civil society understanding of and participation in the secondary education sector through
campaigns to increase public awareness and support for secondary education reform.

Component 4 - project Administration (US$3.1 million or 4 percent of total project cost). This
component aimed to support the implementation of project activities. It would finance: (i) operation costs
and (ii) equipment, office supplies and vehicles.




                                                     - 2 -

3.4 Revised Components:

Project components were not revised during the implementation period, though changes in components'
targets and activities were introduced through a Government Decree and subsequent modifications to the
loan agreement. In June 1998 MINED agreed to change two project output indicators, as requested by the
National Assembly during the loan approval process. The changes, introduced by Decree, consisted of
increasing: (i) the number of scholarships to low income students to be awarded under the project from
2,340 to 3,350; and (ii) the number of new secondary schools (Institutos) to be built under the project from
12 to 18.

The loan agreement was amended four times. The first amendment, approved in July 1998, changed one
condition of effectiveness, the signature of a contract between MINED and the training institution selected
to provide teacher training under Component 2, by postponing it to September 1999. The reason for the
amendment was that since the project had already suffered delays in effectiveness, the GOES decided to
evaluate existing teacher training programs at the time and, based on the evaluation results, decide the
institution best suited to undertake the teacher training activities to be supported by the project.

The second amendment, approved in December 1998, changed the pari-passu for the civil works
disbursement category from its original 60 percent to 90 percent until disbursements reached
US$1,830,000, and 60 thereafter in the case of new construction and US$1,530,000 in the case of
rehabilitation. This was done to address the GOES' needs for financing to rebuild damaged school
infrastructure after Hurricane Mitch hit Central America in October 1998.

The third amendment, approved in March 2001, was prepared in response to the earthquakes that shook
the country in January and February 2001. The amendment redirected project resources to finance: (i) the
reconstruction of secondary public schools damaged by the earthquake; (ii) the acquisition of durable
education materials (reprinting and distribution of these materials) to replace those destroyed by the
earthquake; and (iii) the provision of grants to eligible municipalities (that is, if they met the requirements
set in an operational manual) to carry out municipal sub-projects. The municipal subprojects had to
support educational goals (such as reconstruction, training, acquisition of materials, etc), using the model
of co-investment with MINED. The amendment allowed the Borrower to transfer loan resources to school
councils (CDEs) on a grant basis, to carry out minor construction and rehabilitation activities, and to
establish and manage the Learning Resource Centers (CRAs), decentralizing its execution as a sub-project.

The fourth amendment, approved in December 2004, was requested by the newly elected government, to
align the project with the government's strategic guidelines, contained in the Education Plan for 2004-2009.
project activities were adjusted to better support the Government's Action Plan for 2004-2005 and were
aimed to ensure the accomplishment and sustainability of the project's development outcomes by the end of
its execution period. Changes were introduced in Schedule 1 and Schedule 4, to reallocate resources among
disbursement categories and increase thresholds for procurement aggregated amounts. More resources
went to finance consultancies in the areas of institutional strengthening, the launching of the Proyectos
Juveniles Concursables, and continuation of the scholarship program (2).

In February 2003 the loan's closing date was extended by eighteen months (until December 31, 2004). In
September 2004 the loan closing date was further extended to December 31, 2005.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The quality at entry is rated satisfactory.        First, the project's objectives were consistent with the



                                                      - 3 -

Government's education policy objectives and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Report
No.16307-ES). The CAS stated that education remained a high priority for the Government and for Bank
assistance and proposed maintaining support for basic education while broadening Bank's support by
focusing on improving and decentralizing secondary education. Second, the Bank's team coordinated its
education sector investments with those financed by the Inter-american Development Bank (IDB) --
following the successful experience with the Basic Education Modernization project (3945-ES) -- (the first
Bank-financed project to have a shared appraisal document with the IDB )-- and the Education Reform
project (4320-ES; April 1998). Third, the project responded to the expanded demand for secondary
education generated by the successful implementation of the Basic Education Modernization.           Finally,
project design was in line with sector work on rural development and gender, and it benefited from
extensive participation, consultations with beneficiaries and other stakeholders -- which generated strong
ownership of project components.        Project preparation also included a short labor market survey to
determine the qualification demands from employers, and an institutional capacity assessment of the
education sector. The result was a project with flexible and simple design that adequately responded to the
sector's needs. The flexibility in design became very important during the natural disasters that took place
in the country during project implementation, which required quick project adaptation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of the project's development objective (to expand coverage with improved quality and
efficiency of public and private secondary schools) is rated satisfactory based on the following outcomes:

·        Coverage was expanded at the secondary level, measured by the increase in gross and net
enrollment rates in secondary education and increase in transition rates between 9th and 10th grades (table
1);

·        Quality was improved as measured by the increase in mean achievement scores for mathematics,
language and science tests; and

·        Managerial capacity was strengthened as measured by greater efficiency in delivering secondary
education services and by improved distribution of responsibilities between the central, departmental, and
school levels.

The PAD included targeted values for outcome indicators to be achieved by 2002.                Since project
implementation was extended until December 2005, the ICR used the 2004/05 values for these performance
indicators to assess the impact of the project actions.

Expanded coverage. The project aimed to increase gross enrollment rates in secondary from 18 percent in
1997 to 23 percent in 2002, as indicated in the PAD. However during the mid-term review, the baseline
and target indicators were corrected to be consistent with MINED's official statistics for gross enrollment
(see table 1 below) and the new baseline was set at 34.5 percent and new goal 40 percent.

Enrollment rates in secondary (grades 10 and 11 in general secondary, and 10 to 12 in technical education)
increased during the life of the project: between 1998 and 2005 gross enrollment rates increased from 34.5
percent to 46.1 percent, while net enrollment rates increased from 18.2 percent to 30.2 percent. The total
number of students enrolled in secondary education grew between 1999 and 2005 from around 132,170 to
over 165,100 in urban areas, and from about 7,160 to 21,593 in rural areas.



                                                     - 4 -

                  Table 1. Enrollment and Transition Rates in Secondary Education (1998-2005)
                                              1998           2002          2004        2005
                  Gross enrollment            34.5 %         40.2%        44.5%       46.1%
                  Net enrollment              18.2%          25.6%        28.9%       30.2%
                  Transition rates from 9th   91.3%          97.6%        95.0%         n.a.
                  to 10th grade


Transition rates from 9th grade into secondary education increased from 91.3 percent to 95.9 percent
between 1998 and 2004. Completion rates in 11 and 12 grades also improved reaching 42 and 24.2
percent, respectively, in 2004 (compared to 30.2 percent and 18 percent in 1998). Despite improvements,
it should be noted that one still finds substantial differences between rural and urban populations in terms
of transition and completion rates (3).

                          Table 2. Completion Rates for General and Technical Secondary Education
                  (1998-2004)
                                                                             Completion Rates
                                                                    1998                          2004
         General Secondary (11th grade)                            30.2%                          41.9%
         Technical Secondary (12th grade)                          18.0%                          24.3%


School efficiency indicators as measured by dropout and over-age rates have improved since 1998.
Notwithstanding, repetition rates have shown a slight increase in the recent past.

                          Table 3. School Efficiency Indicators at the Secondary Level (1998-2005)
                                                             1998              2003           2004
                  Repetition rates                           1.9%              2.7%           2.6%
                  Drop oput rates                            10.9%             6.8%           5.2%
                  Overage rate                                n.a.            22.4%          11.6%



Improved quality. The learning achievement tests in mathematics, language, social studies and science
were used to measure how the project impacted the quality of secondary education. Within the National
Evaluation System (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de los Aprendizajes­ SINEA), the PAES (Prueba de
Aptitudes y Aprendizajes para Egresados de Educación Media) is the test used to measure the skills and
learning achievements for secondary education graduates. Since 1997, the test has been applied every year
at the end of secondary education to all students finishing general education (11th grade) and technical
education (12th grade). Between 1997 and 2005 the PAES experienced changes in its nature and how the
use of results were used, including adapting it to the curriculum changes. The main changes in the test
were introduced in 2002, when it started to measure competency levels. Results were shown as three levels
of achievement of those competencies (basic, intermediate and superior, in a scale of 0 to 10) depending
upon the number of questions successful replied by each student and their degree of complexity. Such
scale measures the level of competency from basic education until secondary level graduation.
Additionally, until 2004 the test was a graduation requirement, though its results did not preempt the
students from graduating or going into higher education. The test results were used as a diagnostic tool to
provide information to policy makers, school directors, and teachers. Starting in 2005, the PAES became a
promotional tool as well. The final grade obtained by students at the end of secondary is a combination of
the result of the PAES test and the grades the students get throughout its secondary education.




                                                      - 5 -

The PAES results for 2005 show improvements in learning achievements in Mathematics and Language for
both public and private schools, when compared with 2002. In public schools, the percentage of students
achieving intermediate or superior levels in Mathematics has increased from 38 percent to 46 percent
between 2002 and 2005. In language that increase has been from 58 percent to 68 percent. As tables 4
and 5 show, a similar trend is found in private schools.          It is worth highlighting that the National
Assessment System, including the PAES, also provided the Borrower with the ability to measure quality,
thus promoting more accountability in the system as well as giving teachers and policy makers the ability to
better respond to students learning needs.

                                                            Table 4. PAES Results for Mathematics
                                                            Public                        Private
                   Competency Level                  2002              2005         2002           2005
         Basic                                       62%               54%          48%            42%
         Intermediate                                32%               37%          34%            36%
         Superior                                     6%                9%          18%            22%
                                                     100%             100%          100%           100%
                                           Numbers have been rounded up.

                                                            Table 5. PAES Results for Language
                                                            Public                        Private
                   Competency Level                  2002              2005         2002           2005
         Basic                                       42%               38%          32%            25%
         Intermediate                                42%               51%          42%            50%
         Superior                                    16%               11%          26%            25%
                                                     100%             100%          100%           100%
                                           Numbers have been rounded up.


Between 1998 and 2005, El Salvador revised its curriculum to make it more relevant to the needs of the
labor market. The proposed changes were validated through stakeholder consultations. Teachers were
trained in the content of the new curriculum, as well as in new teaching methodologies. Additionally, a new
teacher training system was developed and implemented with project support.           The system established
teacher training networks and decentralized to school level the identification, planning of training activities,
and delivery of teacher training.      At the same time, the central level retained the responsibility for
providing technical support to the teacher networks and creating local teams for teacher professional
development.    The new system has succeeded in promoting a culture of continuous training among
teachers.    Finally, the project financed the creation of Learning Resource Centers (CRAs), science
laboratories, and libraries in around 162 secondary schools. Teachers also received training on how to use
these resources and, as a result, innovations were brought to the secondary education classrooms.

Strengthening managerial capacity in secondary education. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did
not include any indicator to monitor the improvements in institutional capacity in the education system.
Nonetheless, the project supported key aspects of MINED's institutional strengthening and modernization,
both at the central and school levels. At the central level, the project contributed to improve MINED's
capacity to formulate policies, guidelines and regulations for the education sector by financing training for
its key personnel and strengthening its human resource capacity. This has translated in the formulation of
a long term strategic plan for the education sector ­ Plan 2021 ­ which provides a framework for the long
term lines of action in the education sector. The project also supported the modernization of MINED's
information systems by financing technical assistance to MINED. The new systems have improved, to
some extent, MINED's accounting, financial management and acquisition capacity, as well the ability to


                                                     - 6 -

gather educational information and statistics. Together with the aforementioned investments, MINED's
personnel have received training on management, human resources issues, and the use of new technologies.

The project has contributed to enhance the decentralization process by strengthening management capacity
at school level. It supported piloting the establishment of school-based management practices, previously
implemented in primary schools at secondary schools.           This modality of school management at the
secondary level has led to the elaboration of programs such as the School Development Plan (PEI-
Proyecto Educativo Institucional), as an instrument to improve quality, school vision, and local
management. Additionally, the project supported interventions to increase the management capacity of
both school principals and members of school councils (Consejos de Desarrollo Escolar - CDEs) -- they
received training on diverse aspects of decentralized school management. The project, through the support
of the expansion of decentralized school management model, fostered greater participation of parents,
private groups and organizations thus bringing more accountability to school level.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Expansion of Access
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The component's actual cost was US$13.15 million, 70.7 percent of the original estimate. The project
succeeded in increasing access to secondary education through: (i) the successful implementation of a
scholarship program targeted to low income students in urban and rural areas, with emphasis on female
student participation; (ii) the construction of new classrooms in areas with unmet demand for secondary
education; and (iii) the expansion of the distance education program, along with the modernization of its
curriculum and the provision of adequate learning materials and teacher training.

1.1 Scholarship program. This sub-component surpassed its target of awarding 2,340 scholarships and
succeeded in meeting its objective of increasing access to secondary school for low-income students.
Between 1999 and 2005, a total of 6,156 scholarships were awarded (out of 17,327 applications), of which
5,328 students graduated at the end of secondary. Around 65 percent of applicants came from families
with a per capita income of less than US$35 per month; 26 percent between US$35 and US$70 per month;
8 percent between US$71 and US$140 per month; and 1 percent above US$141 per month. The MINED
elaborated a Scholarship Program Manual containing the eligibility criteria for students and schools, and
the mechanism to guide the administration and provision of scholarships. The scholarship program was
administered by FEPADE, a private institution with experience in running scholarship programs since
1988. The one aspect of the scholarship that was less successful was seeking greater participation from
the private sector. The private sector did not contribute with much additional resources and MINED plans
to dedicate more efforts to increase private sector participation in the future.

The total amount of the scholarship was US$420 per student per year, and students had monthly access to
a part of the scholarship (about US$37 per month), with a higher first disbursement (US$92) to buy
books, school materials and uniforms. FEPADE worked with a national bank (Banco Cuscatlán) which, at
no cost, provided ATM cards to students to withdraw monthly installments of their scholarships. FEPADE
monitored the program by following the students' progress reports (four times a year), the completion of
the school year, and the continuation in the school institution. FEPADE staff also visited the schools twice
a year. School principals also had a key role in following the academic progress of students and in
providing them with support throughout the school year.




                                                     - 7 -

The program was well advertised across the country, through printed materials distributed to schools,
meetings with local education authorities, and visits to the municipalities targeted by the program. As
defined in the Scholarship Program Manual, 52 percent of scholarships were awarded to female students.
Around 40 percent of the scholarships were awarded to students living in poorest areas (departamentos) of
the country (Chalatenango, Cabanas, San Miguel, Usulután, Morazán and La Unión) and the remaining 60
percent to the other departments.

The scholarships were awarded for the two or three years of the duration of the secondary years, unless the
student failed to meet the requirements established in the manual. In general, once awarded, students kept
the scholarship. Drop outs (10 percent in 2000 and 1 percent in 2005) occurred mostly due to migration of
students and the ICR mission found that students' commitment to continue their secondary education was
strong, as expressed during the interviews. Furthermore, evidence shows that parents respected the use of
monies for education. One additional benefit of the scholarships is that they contributed to boost the
self-esteem of students and families, and to enhance the students' responsibility for managing the
scholarship resources.

1.2 Infrastructure and equipment. Under this sub-component, a total of 13 secondary schools (Institutos)
were built (or 106 classrooms), fulfilling the targets set after the 2001 earthquakes. The PAD had
originally set a target of 12 centers or 125 classrooms, modified to 18 centers or 155 classrooms by Decree
in June 1998. After the earthquakes, the target was revised again to the originally planned 12 institutes.
This sub-component financed classroom construction, furniture, and equipment. The selection of the
school location was based on a school mapping carried out by the MINED in 1997. Schools were located
in growing cities in the country and in municipalities in the San Salvador area; the selection was influenced
by the objective of expanding secondary education access in low-income areas. The departments of Santa
Ana and La Paz and the municipalities of San Marcos and Soyapango in the San Salvador area ­originally
designated for the construction of new secondary schools -- did not get any new construction after the
earthquake.

About 4,686 students benefited from the creation of 106 new classrooms. An IDB-financed evaluation of
the existing infrastructure carried out during the last year of project implementation showed that the
schools built under the project were simple and functional, with adequate designs, and safe for seismic
activity. The report also highlighted school furniture as an important achievement by the project. Finally,
the report concluded that MINED had managed the construction process transparently and efficiently with
a lean personnel structure. It should also be noted that school maintenance was adequate during the life of
the project, as the schools received resources for preventive maintenance (in the form of a "bono"). This
element has been institutionalized as it was incorporated into the regular budget for the 2006 school year.

1.3 Distance education program. This sub-component supported the creation of 354 new classrooms ("
secciones") between 1997 and 2005, surpassing the target set in the PAD (140 new classrooms). By the
end of 2005, a total of 19,365 students were enrolled in distance education in urban and rural areas (versus
about 9,200 enrolled in 1998).

The distance education sub-component supported the system created in 1989. The modality adopted is
semi-present, with students attending secondary schools on Saturdays and working independently during
the week.    The teachers in distance education are the same that teach in regular secondary.             The
sub-component supported the revision of the curriculum, development of educational materials (including
audiovisual materials for teaching, and evaluation materials to assess student learning), and the distribution
of materials to students and teachers. Modules in the areas of language, mathematics, social studies and
science were produced. These materials were validated in workshops with teachers, students, and technical


                                                     - 8 -

personnel from MINED. Teachers received four yearly training sessions on curricular matters and specific
topics, including the new curriculum modules, teaching methodologies, learning assessment and evaluation,
and constructivism. During the project, the promotion system for distance education students was revised
as well. An evaluation after each module was introduced and it was based on a pool of items that could be
selected by the teachers.

Distance education students had access to the libraries and learning resource centers (CRAs) during the
weekends when attending classes. Secondary schools have made an effort to keep the CRAs and libraries
open, with support from the Central American University (UCA) and the volunteer time given by university
students (called "horas sociales") from all universities in the country. The use of the CRAs helped with
the high demand for learning materials.

Component 2. Quality improvements
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The component actual cost was U$54.7 million, 118.3 percent of the original estimate. The project was
successful in: (i) updating the curriculum for general secondary education to increase its relevance and
better prepare students who graduate from secondary education to enter the labor market; (ii) improving the
quality of teaching and learning through relevant training to teachers, improvements in school infrastructure
to "house" new technologies, school libraries and science laboratories; (iii) improving MINED's capacity to
assess students' learning achievements by improving the evaluation system through changes in the
methodology, the use and dissemination of results, and the generation of education statistics; and (iv)
upgrading the standards for secondary education through the creation of an accreditation system for private
and public secondary schools.

2.1 Curriculum development: This sub-component was successful in carrying out a curriculum revision,
training teachers and principals in the curricular changes, creating and distributing new learning materials,
and establishing an innovative program for school projects in social areas.

Curriculum. A national curriculum reform for secondary education was initiated in 1995 through a series
of extensive consultations with several stakeholders, such as teachers' unions, universities and private
sector institutions. The Central American University (UCA) was hired by MINED in 1998 to design a new
curriculum for general secondary; this curriculum was being implemented on a trial basis when the project
was approved. The thirty two existing tracks were revised and two main options were proposed: a two
year general academic program and a three year technical and vocational program. Within the technical
one, students chose among four tracks (commerce and management, industry, agriculture, and health). The
general academic program was also redesigned, transforming the traditional fragmented approach of twelve
to thirteen subjects into six basic areas (language and literature, mathematics, social sciences, natural
sciences, foreign language, and computer science) and three formative areas (psychology of adolescents,
seminars and optional courses) for a total of forty weekly hours.

The project supported the piloting of this curriculum as well as its final revision (carried out by UCA),
completed by 2001. Each teacher received a copy of the curriculum, which is flexible for them to adapt to
their classroom needs. Methodological guides were also produced for the basic subject matters (language,
mathematics, social science, natural science, and English) and a manual to assess learning achievements ("
Manual de Evaluación de los Aprendizajes") was elaborated. These instruments were well received by
teachers. The evaluation manual is a strategic document to provide guidance to teachers in assessing
student learning in the area of general secondary education. During the implementation of the new
curriculum teachers received support from the pedagogical advisors ("asesores pedagógicos") in


                                                     - 9 -

incorporating new elements into the teaching (more participation of students, curriculum, materials, etc).
Finally, the project supported the development of a curriculum for elective subjects ("materias optativas"),
which was completed in 2005 and it is being tested in parts of the country (La Unión).

Training of teachers and principals. The project supported the development and implementation of a
decentralized strategy for in-service training for teachers and principals, as well as strengthening the three
teacher training centers in San Salvador, Santa Ana and San Miguel. As part of the reform of the teacher
training strategy, the project supported the elaboration of a school self-diagnosis (PEI - Proyecto Educativo
Institucional) in each secondary school, to promote decentralized management and institutional
development.     The PEI consisted of an instrument for the teachers and principals to carry-out a
self-diagnosis of the institutional needs of the school with recommendations on how to improve its quality,
including the training needs of its staff. MINED hired the UCA to prepare the instrument for the PEI and
teachers and principals received five days of training on its elaboration. The PEI was well accepted by
teachers and principals. A 2005 impact evaluation carried out by UCA showed that the elaboration of a
PEI contributed to: (i) better define the school identity; (ii) introduce the concept of strategic planning; (iii)
promote organization of alternative projects with different community groups; and (iv) foster better
organization of the teachers as a group.

In 2000, after the early implementation phase, MINED pushed the decentralization of the in-service teacher
training system by creating groups of teacher leaders and zonal teacher networks (ELDEPROD ­ Equipos
Locales de Desarrollo Profesional Docente). These groups included one teacher-coordinator for each of
the participating secondary schools (there were between 8 and 19 schools by ELDEPROD) and one
secondary school was selected as the main site ("sede"). Schools presented their training needs and these
were addressed in a decentralized manner. The ELDEPRODs followed-up, providing technical assistance
on the elaboration of PEIs, and working to create the other teachers networks by identifying teachers who
would act as links.     The ELDEPRODs worked with support from the schools' pedagogical advisors in
carrying out a diagnosis of the schools/teachers needs and selecting training areas. Emphasis was placed on
implementing pedagogical innovations in the classrooms. Finally, a bulletin was created by MINED as a
mean to disseminate achievements, pedagogical innovations, and keep the local networks connected. By
project completion, a total of 34 zonal professional development plans were implemented, benefiting
teachers from 346 secondary schools.

A total of 4,500 secondary education teachers where trained under this scheme, which provided almost
10,600 training opportunities for teachers (teachers were trained in more than one instance). This scheme
was organized in different stages and implemented gradually (4). By project closing, the training sessions
were organized and managed by the schools, showing that this strategy has been embraced by them and
their teachers, thus enhancing the likelihood that they continue.      Additionally, two pedagogical meetings
took place at the national level during the life of the project:        one to define the guidelines for the
sustainability of the teacher training programs, and another to share the most relevant pedagogical
experiences (5). In addition to enhancing teachers' abilities, the teacher training supported by the project
have contributed to promote a lifelong training culture among teachers, as well as the development and
systematization of pedagogical innovations in the classrooms.             The training forums also provided
opportunities for teachers to exchange experiences.

Program for Innovative Social Formative Projects (Fondo Juventud). This program financed, on a
competing basis, small projects prepared by schools with student input. This program was designed to
respond to attendance and achievement issues identified by the social assessment. The key idea behind it
was to provide schools/students with discretionary resources that would enable them to make their schools
more attractive. An operational manual was elaborated in 1998, describing the criteria and mechanisms


                                                     - 10 -

for project preparation and selection, as well as information and dissemination strategies. Additionally,
schools received training and information on how to prepare these proposals. Projects proposed included
recreational, cultural, and sports activities. Between 1999 and 2003, around 1,104 projects in 368 schools
(averaging US$1,000 per project) were financed (versus a target of 100 projects). Around 229,800 students
benefitted from these projects.

In 2004 the new administration re-oriented the activities under this program to better match the
Government's strategic education plan (Plan 2021) and revised the fund, calling it "Proyectos Juveniles
Concursables". The fund increased the emphasis on creativity, innovation, and student participation. The
students were allowed to present a project based on the themes proposed by the MINED's Department for
Youth Affairs (such as integral education, art and culture, recreational and sport activities, and youth
participation). The proposals for projects could benefit one group of students, a group of classrooms, or
the whole school. Under the fund, a school could get financing for more than one project, but not more
than three (if presented by different groups). The fund established five different categories of projects,
depending upon its beneficiaries, and allocated different amounts (from U$1,000 to U$10,000) per project.
Given the shortage of participation from rural schools, MINED emphasized having more proposals from
rural schools during 2004, including hiring a consultant to provide greater support to the rural secondary
schools in preparing their proposals.

In 2005, the 237 projects received financing (out of 428 proposals) in 166 schools (22 percent of them
rural), benefitting around 78,000 students. Integral education received 38 percent of funds, art and culture
38 percent, sports and recreational activities 16 percent, and youth participation received 8 percent. In
principle, the implementation time for the projects was going to be six months.           Due to delays in
transferring the resources, the implementation period was extended to the 2006 school year and there will
not be a new round of projects in 2006. MINED aims to continue these in the future, revising and
adjusting the times between phases.

2.2 Learning resource centers (CRAs), school libraries and science laboratories. This sub-component met
its targets of equipping 149 CRAs. A total of 162 CRAs were created under the project in selected
secondary schools. Schools were gradually selected based on its location and they were rehabilitated to
adequate the spaces to serve as a multipurpose rooms and receive the technology. Each CRA was equipped
with televisions, videos, radios, and computers. At project design, CRAs were conceived as a physically
integrated learning resource center that would include computer technology, audiovisual learning resources,
library, and science laboratory. However, after project implementation started, MINED decided to have
different spaces within the school for the libraries and science laboratory.    CRAs were used by both
teachers and students for research, preparing classrooms and teaching lessons as well.

Another change in this sub-component was that the CRAs' equipments were originally conceived to be
specified and purchased centrally. However, in 2000 the Government and Bank agreed to implement
decentralize the implementation of CRAs transferring to schools the responsibililty for the acquisition of its
equipment. Thus, MINED defined the types of equipment to be included in a CRA and transferred
US$40,000 to each school (as a "bono") so their school councils could determine the individual equipment
that they wanted for their CRA, and prepare an acquisition plan. Schools were also asked to prepare,
together with MINED, an Operational Plan for the CRA, which included goals, targets, use of resources
and activities. To prepare school councils for this role, FEPADE provided training to their members on the
acquisition of goods and payments. Additionally, all teachers in a school with a CRA received training
(252 hours per participant) on the use of computers and software as pedagogical tools, and management of
the CRAs and its maintenance. School principals also received training to become familiar with the
technology and its use.


                                                     - 11 -

Initially, each CRA had a coordinator working as a facilitator, providing technical assistance to teachers
and students for the use of the equipment and its pedagogical application to teaching and learning. Around
75 schools received support from MINED to finance a CRA coordinator. Other secondary schools hired a
coordinator with their own resources or placed the Information Technology teacher as the CRA
coordinator. MINED's Technology Department (Dirección de Tecnología) provided support to the schools
from the early phase of the CRA conception to its establishment and operation.

An evaluation of the CRAs carried out in September 2005 found that: (i) the objectives of the CRAs were
known by users (principal, teachers, students and parents); (ii) the technical assistance provided by
MINED and CRA coordinators was sufficient; (iii) most teachers were motivated to use the technology to
teach; (iv) the equipment was adequately maintained; (v) resources allocated to CRAs had been properly
used and audited by MINED; and (vi) the creation and use of CRAs had a positive impact in the way
teaching and learning were taking place. The evaluation pointed out to the need to increase the number of
technological resources (such as computers or projectors) to respond to users' demand. It should also be
noted that the ICR mission verified that CRAs have remained available for distance education students on
weekends.

School libraries were created in 365 secondary schools --74 percent of all public secondary schools--
including the 162 schools equipped with a CRA (versus a PAD target of 60).          Additionally, the project
supported the elaboration of a training guide for school librarians, which was distributed to all 365 schools.
In order to preselect the books for the school libraries, in 2001 MINED requested examples of books from
publishing houses, receiving around 10,000 books -- supporting the curriculum, reference books, and
recreational books. After this, MINED organized a gathering of specialists who reviewed all of the books,
preselecting 2,000 of them. Once the books were preselected, MINED organized a book fair with the
participation of twenty eight publishing houses and secondary school directors and teachers. Schools were
given a virtual resource allocation (bono virtual) to select the books of their choice. Once teachers and
directors had done their selection, the MINED grouped the books and negotiated discounts with the
publishing houses. By early 2003 the schools were receiving their library books. It should be noted that
not only the process was open and transparent, but school directors and teachers were highly appreciative
of the opportunity to have an input in the process and being in direct contact with the publishing houses.
Similarly to the CRAs, the ICR mission verified that libraries also remain available on weekends for
distance education students.

Science laboratories were created in 162 schools, compared to the PAD's original target of 69. It should
be noted that MINED chose to intervene in the same schools were CRAs were going to be created. The
project supported the diagnosis of the situation of science laboratories in schools, something that had not
been done since 1968 (and partially in 1995), the acquisition of equipment, and teacher training. The
diagnosis showed that out of the 162 schools with laboratories, only 5 laboratories were in acceptable
conditions, and most of them were not being used. Additionally, only 40 percent of teachers were science
teachers. Acquisition of equipment took place in 2002 and by 2003 the equipment was in schools. The
MINED followed a similar procedure for the purchase of science laboratories as it did for the purchase of
CRA equipment, giving the school a "bono" to buy the necessary equipment and materials, within the
standards and specifications defined by MINED. Each secondary school received US$10,000, deposited in
the school account. School principals were in charge of managing these resources, but consulted with
teachers to decide what to buy.      MINED was also consulted and emitted opinions but these were not
binding as schools had the final word on what to buy and from what suppliers. Management of resources
was transparent as shown in the audits done by MINED. In addition to equipment, the project also
supported the preparation of guide on the use of science laboratories.


                                                    - 12 -

In terms of teacher training, the MINED developed a training plan to train teachers in natural science, with
a focus on integrated science (which included chemistry, biology and physics), with support from 21
specialists. The training was designed by a Spanish university, which provided technical assistance
throughout the process. Five teacher guides were produced for this purpose. Training was designed in
March 2004 and given throughout that year. Nine training centers were organized around the country. A
total of 380 teachers received the training attending training two Saturdays per month during eight months.
The 21 specialists visited the secondary schools from Monday to Friday to provide support to teachers.
Innovative elements were introduced, such as filming teachers while teaching their classes and then
reviewing the video to improve their pedagogy.         While teachers initially resisted changes, MINED's
technical personnel perceived that the training had a positive impact on pedagogy adopted by teachers and
on the way the classes were given. The technical assistance to the schools concentrated on the creation of
"círculos de estudio," to foster exchange among teachers from the same and different secondary schools.
Individual support was also provided for innovative projects coming from the teachers. The MINED
provided follow up to the consultant work and undertook field visits as well. The one shortcoming of this
process was that the university lacked a higher number of specialists to cover all the schools in the country.
By project completion, a total of 6,871 teachers had received training on the use of the CRAs and the
science laboratories.

2.3 Rehabilitation of school facilities. This sub-component aimed to improve the classrooms and school
structures to accommodate the new school libraries, sciences laboratories, and learning resource centers.
Initially, the PAD had identified 100 schools (out of the 219 secondary schools existing at the time of
preparation) to be rehabilitated. This target was modified by the emergency reconstruction plan in 2001
after the earthquakes. A total of 117 schools were rehabilitated under this sub-component. Additionally,
31 classrooms were rehabilitated, compared to the 25 targeted in the PAD under component 1.2.

2.4 National Assessment System. This sub-component provided support to deepen the development and
implementation of the National Assessment System. It has also supported the publication of annual
statistic reports on education.   During 1997, MINED started the development of a national student
assessment test (PAES), aimed at testing the learning performance of students at the secondary level.
Taking the test was mandatory to graduate from secondary education.           The test included four main
subjects (language, mathematics, natural and social sciences). The PAES has been applied to all secondary
level graduating students (from public and private schools) since 1998. Until 2001, the test was based on
points (prueba en base a norma), taking the group as whole as the base to define achievements. Starting in
2002 the PAES changed to use a competency approach (logros de aprendizaje). Such approach expresses
levels of achievement, instead of a grade. Additionally, in 2002 MINED elaborated for the first time a
report analyzing the elements influencing students learning achievements. Since the 2002 changes, the
results are also given to schools by competencies; in 2004 schools were also given the results as a
percentage and each school was ranked compared to the average national results. During 2004 and 2005
further changes were introduced to the PAES to improve the use of results by schools. Finally, in 2005 it
was agreed to use the results of the PAES together with the results of student grades to graduate from
secondary.

2.5 National accreditation and supervision system.        This sub-component succeeded in supporting the
creation of a School Registration and Accreditation System in El Salvador. The 1996 General Education
Law and its regulations provided the framework to design the system. The project financed a consultancy
to design the new accreditation system for secondary schools, which was implemented starting in 2003.
The accreditation office in MINED handles the creation of both public or private schools, including
legalizing and registering it; each school is given a five digit identification number.       The MINED's


                                                    - 13 -

departmental offices are responsible for the initial school inspection. The follow up is carried out through
the registry, by the accreditation office. The new system has organized the establishment of schools and set
improved infrastructure standards for new secondary schools; each school must at least have a science and
a computer laboratory. The accreditation has also given more credibility to the existing private schools;
some private schools were required to upgrade their facilities to receive the accreditation or they were asked
to close down. Staff from different levels at MINED have been trained on the accreditation system; new
staff joining the accreditation training also receive training.

The supervision system, initially included as one activity of this sub-component, was not carried out as a
result of the reorganization of priorities.

Component 3. Institutional Strengthening
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The component's actual cost was U$5.86 million, 64 percent of the appraisal estimate. This component
supported decentralization efforts at the MINED, including reinforcing its capacity to set policies and
guidelines, and to improve the public and private systems to better deliver education services in a
participatory way. Overall, this component supported the institutional modernization and strengthening of
the education sector, with a special emphasis on the secondary education subsector.

3.1 Management improvements. The project supported the administrative decentralization taking place in
the MINED, based on the 1996 General Education Law. The system was reorganized from three regions
into fourteen departments and resources were decentralized to departments. MINED's staff at central and
departmental levels received substantial training: (i) administrative and technical personnel in the central
and departmental offices of MINED were trained in administrative matters such as development of a logic
framework, costing, elaboration of terms of reference, selection of consultants; (ii) departmental directors,
managers, and other relevant managerial personnel at departmental and central level received training on
managerial skills such as effective team work, effectiveness at work, planning tools; and (iii) MINED top
managers (including the minister, vice-ministers, national directors) received training on top management
practices such as formulation of strategies, creation of top management teams, service management,
management techniques. Other areas of training included information technology (Microsoft project,
windows, access, excel and power point), support staff development, auditing, finances, and accounting.
Training was also received on the characteristics of a local administration system for human resource
personnel. The number of personnel trained annually ranged between 300 and 1,000 staff.

The project also supported the development and implementation of financial and administrative systems.
Among these, the System of Modalities of Local School Administration (SMAEL -Sistema de
Modalidades de Administración Escolar Local), a database for the registry and legalization of the
members of the EDUCO, CDES and CECES and the transfer of funds to the schools.

3.2     School-based management activities ­ Decentralization of management functions.                    This
sub-component supported MINED's efforts to decentralize financial management to schools by financing
training for: (i) around 10,000 school directors and vice-directors on management and pedagogical issues
(preparation of school plans and reports); and (ii) members of school councils on management and
pedagogical issues and on management of the transfer of funds to the schools by MINED. Almost 1,400
school council members were also trained in the norms concerning administrative, financial, and legal
aspects --a training manual was elaborated for this purpose. By project completion, secondary schools had
started to function with a school budget composed of the different resources secondary schools were
receiving for several activities, including the CRAs, laboratories, and school maintenance.


                                                      - 14 -

3.3 Communication strategies and public awareness campaigns. This sub-component financed several
activities to create awareness, and disseminate information and strategies regarding secondary education
reforms. Under this sub-component, magazines and information bulletins were published, and TV adds
were financed. Due to budgetary constraints, during implementation dissemination shifted to using more
radio than TV.

Component 4. Project Administration
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The component's actual cost was U$3.44 million, 110.9 percent of the original estimate. This component
financed the project's operational cost, including office supplies and equipment, vehicles, other project
specific costs, and a very small number of consultants to strengthen financial management. It absorbed a
slightly higher amount of resources than foreseen, mainly due to the extension in the life of the project and
to the need to strengthen the areas of financial management and procurement within MINED, through the
hire of technical personnel in these areas. The project was implemented by MINED main line units for
technical matters and by the department in charge of administration within MINED, as the Ministry opted
for not having a separate PCU to implement the project. By not having a separate PCU, this component is
believed to have contributed to strengthen the administrative and financial management capacity of
MINED. The team in charge of project implementation provided key support for the preparation of the
new project for secondary education, approved in October 2005.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project has significantly contributed to the institutional strengthening of MINED and to furthering the
development of El Salvador's secondary education system through:

l Improvements in the management of information systems, personnel and finances by MINED,
    including the development of information systems (SMAEL, EDUCO y Liquidaciones).                    These
    systems provided MINED's management with the tools to improve internal controls.
l Reorganization of MINED during the life of the project to improve its efficiency and effectiveness in
    the delivery of educational services, including the division of responsibilities between the central and
    department levels. By project completion, the central level retained its responsibility for the elaboration
    of norms and budgets while the department level became responsible for implementing those norms.
l Training of MINED's personnel at central, departmental, and local levels in technical and
    administrative matters. These skills have been incorporated in the regular functioning of the Ministry
    at all levels. This was particularly important as all beneficiaries of these trainings were MINED's
    staff, most of whom have remained in the sector after project completion.
l Improvements and strengthening of the National Evaluation System to measure student learning
    achievements.
l Furthering decentralization efforts and school autonomy, strengthening the role of the CDEs, and the
    management capacity of school directors.        Decentralization has led to greater transparency and
    accountability at the school level.



                                                    - 15 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Hurricane Mitch. In October 1998 El Salvador, along with other countries in Central America, was hit by
Hurricane Mitch, which caused major damage to the country. The GOES requested support from the Bank
and other donors and financiers to carry out the reconstruction process. In the education sector, the Bank
proceeded to introduce modifications to the ongoing projects (Basic Education and Secondary Education
projects) by reducing the percentage of Government counter-part financing required for certain project
activities.

Earthquakes hitting the country. During the life of the project, two earthquakes hit El Salvador (in
January and February of 2001, respectively), causing extensive damage to the school infrastructure across
the country. As a result, implementation of regular activities slowed down during that period. An
emergency and reconstruction plan was prepared and project resources were reallocated to provide the
support requested by the Government. Resources were reallocated to the reconstruction and rehabilitation
of schools, both due to a larger scope of rehabilitation in secondary schools originally selected and to the
addition of more schools, damaged during the earthquakes.

Tropical Storm Stan. In October 2005 tropical storm Stan passed El Salvador, bringing severe rains and
winds into the country. The storm caused damage to school infrastructure and learning materials. The
GOES requested the authorization of loan resources to finance the replacement of damaged learning
materials and school infrastructure. Resources were allocated to thirteen schools for a total amount of
US$113,612 as Bono de Mantenimiento Preventivo.

Commitment and participation of stakeholders. Stakeholder commitment to the goals of the education
reform program was a key element in the successful implementation of project activities. This support was
key to provide continuity to reforms through the long project implementation period, including the
administration changes that took place during project implementation.

Delays in restructuring the Learning Resource Centers (CRAs) subcomponent. During 2000, the
Government and the Bank agreed on introducing modifications to the CRAs subcomponent to make it
consistent with the expanded school autonomy at the secondary level. Originally, the CRAs were to be
created and equipped by MINED. With this change, the schools together with the school councils (CDEs)
were given the autonomy to determine how the CRAs should be equipped, as MINED transferred to them
the resources to do so. The Bank took a long time to address the Government's request and this change did
not take place until the loan agreement was modified in March 2001, after the earthquakes.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Slow start in project implementation. Though approved by the Board in August 1997, the project did not
become effective until one year later because of delays in its approval by the national Congress. This delay
was caused by an internal political disagreement between Congress and the then minister of education. By
the time the project was approved by Congress, MINED had decided to undertake a revision of the teacher
training system before signing an agreement with the previously selected institution to carry out the reform.
This led to a project amendment since the signed agreement was a condition of effectiveness. At around the
time the project became effective, a new administration took office which slowed down the pace of



                                                     - 16 -

implementation. Key personnel in MINED were replaced, slowing down implementation rhythm.

Strong Government commitment to education reforms. The project implementation period extended
over three different administrations; notwithstanding, all administrations showed a strong commitment to its
development objectives. This had an extremely positive effect on outcomes and on continuity of lines of
activities in the education sector.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Efficient use of communications. The MINED developed and implemented a good set of communication
activities to create awareness around the initiatives promoted under the reform project. MINED focused
communication activities on students and families, teachers, and the Salvadorian society as a whole. This
encouraged strong participation, reflected in the demand of scholarships, the interest in enrolling in distance
education, and the greater interest of students to take the PAES. It contributed to active participation by
parents, who were greatly engaged in school management activities.

Capable MINED team. Project implementation benefited from the existence of competent staff leading
the execution of the project throughout the its life, despite four changes in ministers of education. The
MINED staff's capacity to execute the project was particularly evident at the time of the earthquake crisis,
when the team redirected project activities to face the urgent needs in the education sector, and toward the
end of project implementation. During the last 18 months of project implementation the MINED team
showed its ability to implement the operational plan proposed for the last phase of the project and use a
substantial amount of resources in a short time period. It should be noted that throughout project
implementation MINED staff were also responsible for implementing other projects financed by other
international institutions, such as IDB.

Inappropriate management of documents.             Notwithstanding the above, it should be noted that
administration changes led to several personnel turnaround, which caused the loss of institutional memory.
It was not unusual for staff leaving the MINED to take project files with them once they left their positions.
At the same time, the MINED did not have a proper archive system for project documents. Additionally,
computer files became unavailable after the person working at a certain computer station moved. During
the ICR mission, tracking documents and information that should have been archived in the different units
was time consuming. MINED authorities, conscious of this weakness, are moving forward to create a
central archive in MINED.

Weak financial management. From the early stages of project implementation, the Bank team identified
financial management shortcomings that affected the availability of reliable and accurate financial
information on the project. MINED had different accounting systems, that the Bank found at times
inconsistent. Additionally, MINED failed to comply with the Bank's requirement to reflect the use of funds
from the loan and the national budget. The fact that the management of the project was carried out by the
line units of the MINED made it difficult to pay closer attention to compliance with the Bank's
requirements. The fast implementation pace of activities within MINED, after a late project start and the
pressure put by the emergency needs the earthquakes created, contributed to delays in addressing these
shortcomings. Nevertheless, financial management and accounting were areas of progressive improvement
and reinforcement which the Bank and MINED worked until project closing.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Initially, the PAD foresaw a total project cost of US$77.1 million, with a contribution by the Bank of



                                                    - 17 -

US$58 million and US$19.1 million by the Borrower. By project closing, the Bank's actual contribution
amounted to 99.3 percent of the amount approved by the Board and the Borrower's totalled US$19.55
million.

Component 1 ­ The Expansion of Access component actual cost was US$13.15 million (or 70.7 percent of
the original amount of US$18.6 million). This was due to the emphasis shifting into the reconstruction
efforts (under Component 2) after the earthquakes, reducing the loan and counterpart resources allocated to
new school construction. As a result, the number of new secondary schools built under this component was
reduced from 18 to 13. It should be noted, however, that the other six schools were financed by other
resources. Within this component, the scope of the Scholarship program was enlarged and the amount of
resources allocated to it almost doubled from US$3.4 million to USS$6.1 million. Finally, the allocation
for the distance education program was slightly below the estimated amounts.

Component 2 ­ The Quality Improvement component actual cost was US$54.7 million (or 118.3 percent of
its original amount of US$46.2 million). The increase was the result of the needs generated by the
earthquakes, which led to a cost increase in the School Rehabilitation subcomponent (from US$13.5
million to US$22.8 million). The curriculum subcomponent also ended up exceeding the appraisal's
estimate of US$13.9 by almost five percent despite using less loan resources and more counterpart
financing (from the planned US$0.45 million to US$2.7 million). Finally, the Learning Resource Centers
subcomponent received around US$15.65 million (versus the US$17 million estimated in the PAD), which
shows an efficient use of project resources in light of the surpassing of project targets.

Component 3 ­ The Institutional Strengthening component actual cost was US$5.86 (or 64 percent of its
original estimate of US$9.2 million). Two main reasons explain this change. First, the earthquake needs
forced MINED to look for resources across all of its activities, including within this component. Second,
the Borrower managed to implement this component at a lower cost than originally estimated, still meeting
their targets: management improvements subcomponent were slightly reduced to US$1.2 million (from
US$1.3 planned); the cost for the School Autonomy subcomponent was reduced from US$5.7 million to
US$2.87 million; and the cost Communications subcomponent was reduced from US$2.2 million to
US$1.71million.

Component 4 ­ The Project Administration actual cost was US$3.44 million (110 percent of the PAD
estimate), about 10 percent more than the original estimate. This increase is due to the two project
extensions.

During project implementation the Borrower submitted 14 audit reports to the Bank, six of them with one
to three months delays. The Borrower explained that these delays resulted from the fact that they did not
have a financial management team working exclusively with this project. The Bank's financial management
team found problems with the four of the 14 audit reports -- those produced for 2000 and 2001 (delivered
in 2001 and 2002, correspondingly) and made recommendations to the Borrower. Such problems included
incorrect recording of financial data, which contributed to duplication of costs reports, and
inconsistencies between data in the Special Account and those in the financial management
information system. Between December 2002 and November 2004 the Bank's team rated the
project's financial management as "unsatisfactory" due to the aforementioned problems and
closely supervised them on the implementation of an improvement plan; the rating was not
changed until the Bank was satisfied that financial management had improved.




                                                     - 18 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

ICR rating: Highly Likely

It is highly likely that the achievements reached during project implementation will be maintained for the
following reasons:

l MINED's track record. The continuity in Government policies and programs to expand equitable
     access and improve quality in the education sector generally, and in secondary education specifically.
     Since the early nineties, the GOES formulated and implemented long term sector development
     programs for education, which remained consistent throughout the years and administration changes.
     The Bank has been engaged and supportive of the country's policies and programs since the end of the
     war, in the early nineties. An education sector plan covering the period 2004-2009 is currently under
     implementation.

l Ownership of reforms and institutionalized participation of community and students in school
     management. At local level, there is a deep commitment to community participation in the management
     and delivery of educational services. Parents have remained committed to school councils in both
     primary and secondary schools. The training system has required active participation from teachers,
     who have identified the training they needed and shared experiences with colleagues. Students, through
     the school projects, have also been given the chance to participate more.

l Financial sustainability.       The government has been gradually absorbing project activities into its
     regular education budget. Such is the case with the scholarship program, the distance education
     activities, the teacher training system, the maintenance of schools trough a preventive maintenance
     allowance, the maintenance of the management information systems, and the communications
     campaigns. Additionally, since March 2006, the technical personnel working on project management
     have been absorbed by MINED's budget.

l New educational investments, financed with the new Bank-supported operation (Excellence and
     Innovation in Secondary Education Project). The GOES requested that the Bank continue supporting
     secondary education, instead of financing the second phase of the Education Reform Project APL. The
     new operation builds on the achievements reached with support from the previous Bank-financed
     projects and deepens these achievements. Additionally, the GOES has committed to assign budget
     resources over the next years to support the long term education development plan (see Annex 9 for
     2004-2009 education investment projections).

l Improved institutional capacity of MINED.           These have been achieved in the following areas: (i)
     training of MINED personnel at central and departmental level in management and administration; (ii)
     improvement of information management systems (such as SMAEL), to better manage education
     resources and more efficiently transfer resources to local levels; and, to a more limited extent, (iii)
     accounting and financial management through improvements and rationalization of the financial
     systems (unified).

l Institutionalization of teacher training system.           The project supported the development and
     successful implementation of a strategy to decentralize the provision of continuous teacher training (for



                                                    - 19 -

    teachers and principals) for professional growth at secondary level. This strategy --already
    institutionalized and sustainable-- was implemented in a way that allowed for strengthening of local
    participation structures and was built on the implementation and evolution of those aspects in the PEI
    dealing with teacher training.

Finally, it is worth mentioning that the Borrower is working on a sustainability plan which will be
presented to the Bank by the end of June 2006.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The new administration took office in mid 2004. The new Minister was a key member of MINED's team
during the preparation of this project, and later Vice Minister of Education during its initial implementation
phase. The new administration expressed support for the project's development objectives and main
components. The Bank and the Borrower engaged in a dialogue to refocus project activities to better
support the new administration's education sector agenda. During the last year of implementation, the
project's activities helped achieve its development objective while supporting the main lines of action of the
Government's education agenda, as outlined in its long-term development plan --Plan 2021. A new project
(Excellence and Innovation in Secondary Education - EXITO) was approved by the Bank's Executive
Board in November 2005 and it is expected to be approved by the national Congress within the next couple
of months. This operation will continue to support the Plan 2021, which includes expansion of access to
quality secondary education while increasing equity. In this context, EXITO will continue and deepen the
curricular reforms in secondary, to better prepare graduating students to enter the labor market. It will also
support the continuous improvement of the assessment system.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The Bank's identification,
preparation, and appraisal of the project counted on the participation of an adequate range and number of
professionals, who provided hands-on technical assistance to the Borrower. The Bank's team based its
preparation on the lessons learned from the previous project (Basic Education Modernization - P007169)
and on the available sector work. The Bank financed a survey of private sector business to gage present
and future labor market demands and the qualifications they looked for in recent secondary level graduates
and continued to consult and coordinate with the IDB to ensure complementarity of activities. The Bank
supported the organization of a consultation with stakeholders, including students, teachers, and principals.
Finally, the Bank supported the inclusion of a set of new questions to the household survey to collect data
relevant to the project. Project design and objectives were in line with the education reform priorities as set
in the CAS. Risks and mitigating measures were adequately assessed in the PAD. The Bank's team
consciously worked with MINED staff and school directors during preparation, contributing to define
scope and content. Finally, the Bank's team also met with political representatives to better address their
concerns during project preparation. The Bank team provided good assessment and advice to the Borrower
during the mid-term review on how to improve the management and reporting of the financial and
procurement aspects of the project.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. Bank's supervision is rated as satisfactory. The frequency of supervision missions was
adequate. During supervision missions, visits to decentralized Ministry's offices and schools, as well as



                                                     - 20 -

meeting with stakeholders, were common and they provided first-hand knowledge of the progress of project
activities at school and local levels. The Bank's team showed flexibility and a timely response in the face of
the 2001 natural disasters, working with the Borrower in putting together a reconstruction plan and
reallocating resources to meet the urgent country's needs. Together with that, the Bank's team kept an
ongoing dialogue with the Borrower that allowed to adapt to the two changes in Government during
implementation and to refocus lines of activities and programs to better support the Borrower's reform
agenda. Finally, the Bank's team dedicated substantial efforts during supervision to provide technical
support to improve financial management of project resources.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory due to:

   l Through job in preparing the project.
   l Good team work and excellent communications with the Borrower and stakeholders.
   l Flexible and timely response to the country's needs.
   l Good project supervision, adequately responding to Borrower's needs.
   l Close attention to procurement and financial management, fulfilling its fiduciary responsibilities,
         particularly given the shortcomings in MINED in these areas.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Highly satisfactory. The Borrower led preparation process, including preparing a draft appraisal
document, fostered coordination with the IDB, and promoting participation of its staff in providing inputs
to project design. The Borrower, through its Minister of Education, provided a clear vision of the sector
priorities and policies for which it required Bank support.       At MINED's request, their staff, school
directors and other stakeholders participated in preparation, which made preparation successful and
enhanced ownership of the project development objectives and lines of activities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. During the implementation period, the Borrower remained fully committed to achieving the
project objectives, ensuring adequate budgetary resources to support project implementation. Despite three
changes in administration, the Borrower maintained its commitment to the project's development objectives,
ensuring that its Ministry of Education It maintained an adequate staff within MINED, to carry out
implementation, even when there were changes in government.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. MINED's performance during implementation was mainly satisfactory, with a qualification.
Implementation started with a launching seminar, which included the dissemination of information about
the project to a large group of MINED staff and training in procurement.       This event showed MINED's
commitment to implement the project in an innovative and participatory way. Given the institutional
capacity of MINED, the Borrower opted for an institutionalized project implementation, instead of creating
a project implementation unit. MINED's staff were competent and committed and the project came to
support the main strategic action lines in the education sector. Project components were aligned with
MINED's other programs. MINED's strong implementation capacity allowed it to implement this project,
fully disbursing its loan and meeting and/or surpassing most of its targets.



                                                     - 21 -

Notwithstanding, MINED's performance in procurement and financial management was weak throughout
most of implementation. This became apparent during the mid-term review in October 2002, when
MINED failed to present the project's financial information in compliance with the Bank's requirements.
At the time, the Bank's financial management team determined that MINED's financial information was not
reliable --there were two accounting systems, neither of which allowed to capture adequate financial
information. Internal controls were weak and there were problems regarding advanced payments to third
parties (no reconciliations). There were also problems to reconcile the special account. Finally, MINED
lacked a capable financial analyst to administer Bank's resources. Some of the issues in procurement and
financial management persisted on and off during the following years, leading the Bank to rate the project's
financial management as unsatisfactory between December 2002 and November 2004. In procurement
MINED surpassed the maximum amounts allocated for certain expenditure categories, failed to submit
timely submit operating plan (in 2004), and presented unclear documentation when the Bank conducted
ex-post review of contracts. Up to project closing, MINED kept surpassing allocations for expenditure
categories without forewarning the Bank.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. Despite fiduciary problems during supervision, the overall performance is rated satisfactory
due to the following reasons:

    l Government's vision and leadership during preparation.
    l Overall Government's commitment to the education sector reform strategy.
    l Achievement of project targets and objectives in all sub-components, despite adjustments needed
         during the life of the project.
    l Capacity to adjust the project to respond to emergencies resulting from natural disasters.

8. Lessons Learned

Importance of finding a balance between decentralizing responsibilities to schools while maintaining
some under central level. While transferring responsibilities to schools fosters ownership, efficiency in
resource allocation, and transparency, central control is necessary to ensure policy consistency, equity
across the sector, and quality control. Additionally, decentralization to schools must be accompanied by
adequate resource transfers, appropriate training of stakeholders, continuous support to them, and
supervision to ensure compliance.       By choosing a gradual approach MINED successfully balanced
decentralization with retaining control over policies, setting on a model that maximized each level's
comparative advantage in delivering quality education.

Education reforms should be based on long-term goals but have flexible implementation strategies so
that different administrations can embrace them as their own. Education reforms are long-term ordeals
that require political commitments. El Salvador was able to maintain its course because the reform had
long-term goals but incoming administrations found flexibility to set their own strategies on how to reach
those goals. This flexibility generated more commitment on the part of incoming ministers of education as
the education reform was not seem linked to any particular government.      This was clearly demonstrated
by support the project received from three different administrations.          Furthermore, by involving
stakeholders in the implementation of the different strategies, the continuity of the reform as well as its
social acceptance were greater.

Advantage of entering into partnerships for achieving education goals. The involvement of



                                                  - 22 -

non-governmental organizations, agencies, and private institutions in the implementation of education
services can generate efficiencies for the sector, as well as bringing external expertise in searching for
alternatives to address sector issues. El Salvador's selective use of FEPADE and UCA enabled them to test
new modalities of the curriculum, provide support to teachers, directors, and other stakeholders, evaluate
programs, and selectively expand successful practices. It also gave the MINED the ability to implement
the CRAs, libraries, laboratories, PEIs, without requiring its staff to have the prior expertise in designing
and implementing these new initiatives.

Importance of distance education as an option to increase enrollment and equity. Good quality
distance education can greatly contribute to increase access and demand for secondary education. By
improving distance education's curriculum and learning materials, availability of qualified teachers, access
to CRAs, libraries and laboratories, MINED transformed its distance education program into an attractive
alternative for potential students who otherwise would not be able to attend school. As a result, the
re-vamped distance education program was able to successfully reach a large group of rural students who,
otherwise, would not enroll in school.

Well-targeted scholarships are an important tool to improve equity in access to education.
Additionally, the program must be well-advertised to attract the "correct" group of beneficiaries, the
scholarship amount must be set at a "correct level" to retain students, and well-supervised to ensure
compliance with the guidelines. El Salvador pilot scholarship program succeeded in awarding over 90
percent of the scholarships to students from families earning less than US$70 per month -- 60 percent to
families earning less than US$35 per month-- as well as making sure that about half of the beneficiaries
were females. The low drop out rates confirmed the program's success and the role that such programs can
have to promote equity.

Role of Innovative Projects to motivate students. School-based projects can be a successful stimulant to
foster student ownership and participation, as well as student retention in schools.     They should, however,
be sustainable so as to avoid un-met expectations and frustrations.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's contribution is included in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




Notes

(1) In El Salvador basic education includes grades 1 to 9. General secondary education includes grades 10 and 11
and technical secondary education includes grades 10 to 12.




                                                       - 23 -

(2) Some of the consultancies financed focused on: (i) the development of some of the programs included in the
Plan 2021 - the GOES long term development plan for the education sector and (ii) a diagnostic study of the
curriculum of third cycle of basic education, technical secondary education and technological higher education.

(3)The analysis carried out during the preparation of the "Excellence and Innovation in Secondary Education
(EXITO) Project," approved by the Board in November 2005, showed that while primary enrollment figures are
high and quite equitable across income quintiles, enrollment at the secondary level and primary and secondary
completion rates continue to be highly unequal. Differences are also marked between rural and urban areas in
secondary. The rural secondary gross enrollment rate is half the one of urban areas (slightly above 40 percent in
2002) and four times as many youth from urban areas complete secondary education, compared to youth from rural
areas (completion is slightly above 10 percent in rural areas).

(4) In the initial phase, a total of 770 teachers were trained. In the first phase 1,342 teachers, 70 MINED technical
staff and 717 CDEs members received training (3). During the second phase a total of 7,716 teachers were trained
in 266 training sessions. In the third phase, 846 teachers were trained in 62 training sessions. Teachers were
trained in 89 courses, with a duration of 40 hours each.

(5) During the second pedagogical meeting at national level, almost all the learning experiences under this training
program were systematized and shared with the universe of secondary institutions in the country. This exercise is
captured in a document relevant for the national sector plan ("Catálogo de Experiencias Pedagógicas de docentes
de Educación Media en el marco del Plan Nacional de Educación 2021"). Equipment and furniture for 34
ELDEPRODs was provided under this subcomponent as well.




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Gross enrollment rate of secondary increases          (Revised)                                     (Revised)
from 18% in 1997 to 23% by 2002.

Modified * to gross enrollment rate of
secondary increases from 34.5% in 1998 to              46.1%                                          46.1%
40% in 2002 with increasing share of the
public sector.

Transition rate between 9 and 10 grade                  95.9%                                         95.9%
increases from 78% in 1997 to 90% by 2002.

Increase in mean achievement scores for        PAES results for Secondary Schools            PAES results for Secondary Schools
math, language and science by 2002.             (Public - 2005)                              (Public - 2005)

                                            Mathematics:                                 Mathematics:
                                            9% of students achieved superior level       9% of students achieved superior level
                                            (versus 6% in 2002);                         (versus 6% in 2002);
                                            37% of students achieved intermediate level  37% of students achieved intermediate level
                                            (versus 32% in 2002)                         (versus 32% in 2002)
                                            55% of students achieved basic level (versus 55% of students achieved basic level (versus
                                            62% in 2002)                                 62% in 2002)

                                            Language:                                    Language:
                                            11% of students achieved superior level      11% of students achieved superior level
                                            (versus 16% in 2002);                        (versus 16% in 2002);
                                            51% of students achieved intermediate level  51% of students achieved intermediate level
                                            (versus 42% in 2002)                         (versus 42% in 2002)
                                            38% of students achieved basic level (versus 38% of students achieved basic level (versus
                                            42% in 2002)                                 42% in 2002)


The baseline and target number for gross enrollment were modified during the life of the project, as shown in the mid-term
review evaluation report.
During the ICR mission, it was stated that the gross enrollment rate for secondary in 1998 was 34.5 percent.
Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
ACCESS AND COVERAGE                                End of project targets

Scholarship program targeted to low income  At least 2,340* scholarships awarded to low  Some 6,156 scholarships awarded to low
students operational                        income students by 2002                      income students
                                                                                         Some 5,238 students graduated
Infrastructure and services of secondary
education efficiently used                  12* new schools built and 100 schools        A total of 13 secondary schools ("Institutos")
                                            rehabilitated by 2002;                       built. Adittionally 6 secondary schools built
Access to distance secondary education                                                   with other funds
programs expanded                           7,000 students participating in distance
                                            education programs by 2002.                  Some 19,365 students enrolled in distance
                                                                                         education by 2005




QUALITY

 Curricula revised                           Curricula revised and approved by MINED     Curricula (total of 14 programs) revised and
                                            by August 1998;                              approved

Teachers and principals trained in new      8,700 teachers trained;                      Around 10,600 teachers trained **;
programs and methods
                                                                                         Teaching guides for all subjects and student
                                                                                         modules printed and distributed (around




                                                               - 25 -

Educational materials for students and      Teaching guides for all subjects and student 45,000 teaching guides and programs);
teachers developed                          modules printed and distributed;
                                                                                         Funds for innovative formative projects
                                                                                         distributed (1,104 projects in 368 secondary
                                                                                         schools) by project closing
Program for innovative Social Formative     Around 15% of funds allocated by 1999 and
Projects established and functioning        remaining funds distributed from 2000 to     162 CRA crated and operated
                                            2002 ;

Learning Resource Centers (CRAs)            149 CRA created and operating by 2002        110 public secondary schools created and
established in all secondary schools                                                     rehabilitated

Rehabilitation of physical infrastructure   100 public schools rehabilitated;
                                                                                         New evaluation system and norms
                                                                                         operational.

National assessment system for the          New evaluation system and norms              Complied with
secondary level expanded and improved       operational by 1999;

Accreditation and supervision systems with  At least 90% of public and private secondary
new quality standards established and       schools accredited with the new system by    Activity not carried out
operational                                 2002

                                            New supervision system operational by 1999



INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND
MODERNIZATION


Management capacity of MINED's secondary Financial and administrative mechanisms         Complied with
education and local administrative staff    revised, implemented and evaluated;
improved
                                            MINED's staff trained;                       Around 40 seminars took place on different
                                                                                         topics (such as admnistrative matters,
                                                                                         managerial skills and information technology)
                                                                                         to train MINED personnel


Participation of school councils (CDEs) and Around 1,744 CDE members trained by          Around 10,275 school directors and CDEs
communities in decision making for local    2002                                         members trained in pedagogical and
education centers expanded                                                               management aspects

Public awareness on the value of secondary  Awareness campaign and promotional           Awareness campaign and promotional
education and its impact on development     materials distributed.                       materials distributed.
increased


1End of project
* The PAD establishes 2,340 scholarships awarded and 12 schools built as targets. These numbers were modified by the
Salvadorean Congress at the time of approval of the loan (in the Decree ratifying the passing of the loan November/06/1998) to
increase the number of new secondary schools to be built to 18 and the number of scholarships to 3,350. The Decree
established a target of 100 schools with innovative projects. The number of secondary schools to be built was brought down to
twelve, as originally planned.

** There are 4,500 secondary teachers in El Salvador. Data indicates that teachers were trained more than once under the
project.




                                                               - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Expansion of Access                                      18.60          13.15            70.67

2. Quality Improvement                                      46.20          54.70           118.29
3. Institutional Strengthening                               9.20            5.86           63.75
4. Project Administration                                    3.10            3.44          110.93

Total Baseline Cost                                         77.10          77.15
                          Total Project Costs               77.10          77.15
                    Total Financing Required                77.10          77.15




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           17.80         0.70         0.00         18.50
                                   (0.00)         (10.70)      (0.40)         (0.00)      (11.10)
2. Goods                           10.50            0.90         7.20         0.00         18.60
                                   (9.60)          (0.70)      (6.60)         (0.00)      (16.90)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        14.40         0.00         14.40
(Consultant's and MINED's          (0.00)          (0.00)      (13.50)        (0.00)      (13.50)
fixed-term consultants)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00        10.90         0.00         10.90
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (10.90)        (0.00)      (10.90)
5. Scholarships                     0.00            0.00         3.00         0.00          3.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.80)         (0.00)       (0.80)
6. Miscellaneous:                   0.00            0.90        10.80         0.00         11.70
information campaigns,             (0.00)          (0.80)      (4.00)         (0.00)       (4.80)
printing and distribution
services, operation and
maintenance of schools,
salaries and operating
costs.
   Total                           10.50           19.60        47.00         0.00         77.10
                                   (9.60)         (12.20)      (36.20)        (0.00)      (58.00)




                                                - 27 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00              25.84              0.00             0.00             25.84
                                           (0.00)            (17.60)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (17.60)
    2. Goods                                11.09              0.00              0.00             0.00             11.09
                                           (9.31)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (9.31)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00             16.45             0.00             16.45
    (Consultant's and MINED's              (0.00)             (0.00)           (13.99)            (0.00)           (13.99)
    fixed-term consultants)
    4. Training                             0.00               0.00              3.68             0.00              3.68
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.30)            (0.00)           (3.30)
    5. Scholarships                         0.00               0.00              5.23             0.00              5.23
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.86)            (0.00)           (1.86)
    6. Miscellaneous:                       0.00               0.00             14.86             0.00             14.86
    information campaigns,                 (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.54)            (0.00)           (11.54)
    printing and distribution
    services, operation and
    maintenance of schools,
    salaries and operating
    costs.
        Total                               11.09             25.84             40.22             0.00             77.15
                                           (9.31)            (17.60)           (30.69)            (0.00)           (57.60)
   The miscellaneous category includes de cost of the Learnins Resource Centers.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Expansion of access         13.28         5.32                     7.94         5.21                  59.8      97.9

2. Quality improvement         36.72         9.58                    42.33         12.37                 115.3    129.1

3. Institutional                6.00         3.30                     4.79         1.07                  79.8      32.4
strengthening and
modernization
                                2.20         0.90                     2.54         0.90                  115.5    100.0
4. Project Adminstration
Total                          58.00        19.10                    57.60         19.55                 99.3     102.4




                                                           - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              02/12/1997                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (3);
              05/12/1997                     EDUCATION CONSULTANT
                                             (2)
              06/04/1997              11     COUNTRY DIRECTOR (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (5);
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); EDUCATION ECONOMIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/30/1997
              07/28/1997

 Supervision
              10/08/1998                8    CO-TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC.
                                             (1); EDUCATION
                                             ECONOMIST (3); PUBLIC
                                             EXPENDITURE
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/21/1999               10    CO-TASK MANAGER (1);             HS             HS
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC.
                                             (1); EDUCATION ECONOMIST
                                             (1); INSTUTIONAL DEVT. SP.
                                             (1); INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              12/02/1999                3    PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST           S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                             EDUC.INFO.SPECIALIST (1)
              12/02/1999               12    TEAM TASK LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CO-TEAM TASK LEADER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2); EDUC.
                                             INFO. SPEC. (1); EDUCATION



                                              - 30 -

                       ECONOMIST (1); EDUCATION
                       SECTOR MGR. (1);
                       EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                       SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                       INSTITUT'L. MGMT. SPEC (1);
                       INFRASTRUCTURE (1)
      03/22/2000    2  TASK MANAGER (1);             S    S
                       PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                       (1)
      11/05/2000    5  MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); INST. DEVELP. CONSLT.
                       (1); EDUCATION
                       CONSULTNT (1);
                       EDUCATION TECHNOLOGY
                       (1)
      05/24/2002    3  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); ED./TEACHER TRAIN
                       SPC. (1)
      11/08/2002    5  TASK MANAGER (1);             S    S
                       CONSULTANT (2); SR.
                       PROCUREMENT SP. (1);
                       FINANCIAL MANAG. SP. (1)
      02/21/2003    2  MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                       EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
      04/30/2004    5  EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);     S    S
                       FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                       S (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                       DEVELOPM (1);
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); FINANCIAL
                       MANAGEMENT C (1)
      07/09/2004    3  NEW TTL (1); PREVIOUS TTL     S    S
                       (1); FINANCIAL
                       MANAGEMENT (1)
      04/11/2005    11 TASK MANAGER (1);             S    S
                       EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
                       INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                       (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                       EDUCATION CONSULTANTS
                       (3); ARCHITECH (1);
                       FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                       SPECIALIST (1);
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1)

ICR
      01/30/2006    1  OPERATIONS                    S    S
                       CONSULTANT (1)




                       - 31 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                            n.a                             243*
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                 n.a                              118
  Supervision                                          100                             585**
  ICR                                                    6                                 13
  Total                                                                                  959
* This amount was provided by a trust fund provided by the Japanese government and excludes Bank's cost.
** This amount includes around US$ 35,000 dollars under a trust fund.




                                                           - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                             Rating
   Macro policies                           H      SU      M       N       NA
   Sector Policies                          H      SU      M       N       NA
   Physical                                 H      SU      M       N       NA
   Financial                                H      SU      M       N       NA
   Institutional Development                H      SU      M       N       NA
   Environmental                            H      SU      M       N       NA

Social
             Poverty Reduction              H      SU      M       N       NA
             Gender                         H      SU      M       N       NA
             Other (Please specify)         H      SU      M       N       NA
   Private sector development               H      SU      M       N       NA
   Public sector management                 H      SU      M       N       NA
   Other (Please specify)                   H      SU      M       N       NA

The ratings for the impact of project activities on poverty reduction and gender are rated as modest. The project
successfully targeted and reached low income students in rural areas and in areas with no access to secondary
schools through classroom construction, scholarships, and distance education programs. Girls benefited from these
activities (52 percent of scholarship beneficiaries were girls), as described in section 4.2 of the ICR. The impact is
rated as modest due to the relatively small size of these interventions within the needs of the education sector. The
sustainability plan for the project being prepared by the Borrower indicates that, between 1998 and 2004, girls had
both increased their participation and completion rates in secondary education.




                                                        - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bank preparation documents

- Pre-appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memiore and Back to Office report. World Bank. 1997.
- Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to Office report. World Bank. 1997.
- Project Appraisal Document. World Bank. August 1997.

Bank project implementation documents

- Project and Implementation Status Reports (PSRs and ISRs). 1998-2005
- Aide Memoires of Supervision missions. World Bank. 1998-2006.

Main documents prepared by the borrower during implementation

"Boletín Informativo de los Resultados de la PAES 2003". Dirección Nacional de Monitoreo y Evaluación.
"Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de los Aprendizajes. PAES 2005. Orientaciones para Directores y
Docentes de Educación Media". Dirección Nacional de Evaluación y Monitoreo.
"Estandares Educativos y Expectativas para Educación Media, 1er y 2do años de Bachillerato". MINED
2001.
"Censo Matricular 2005. Cuadernillo N.1. Cuadernillo N.2" Dirección Nacional de Monitoreo y Evaluació
n. MINED. 2005.
"Las Bibliotecas en Educación Media. Modulo de Capacitación". Dirección Nacional de Educación.
MINED. 2000.
"Guias de Capacitación de Laboratorios". MINED. 2003.
"Evaluación de la Implementación e Impacto del Programa de Centros de Recursos de Aprendizaje (CRA)
de Educación Media". Jose Navarro. 2005.
"Evaluación de Impacto del Programa de Becas de Educación Media". Rafael Ayala. 2000.
"Factores Asociados al Rendimiento de los Estudiantes que se sometieron a la PAES 2000". MINED. 2002
"Plan Nacional de Educación 2021". MINED 2004.
"Borrador del Plan de Sostenibilidad e Indicadores de Seguimiento del Proyecto 4224-ES - Reforma de la
Educación Secundaria de El Salvador". Francisco Esquivel. San Salvador. Abril 2006.




                                                   - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

I. Project Background

Since the signing of the Peace Accord in 1992, El Salvador reaffirmed its commitment to rebuilding the
country and strengthening the basis of human development, especially in education.

During 1989-1994, El Salvador began its response to the education problem--characterized by a high rate
of absenteeism, lack of access, insufficient coverage, illiteracy, and great institutional and infrastructure
deficiencies.

The increase of fiscal resources to support basic education (initially primary), the basis for a curricular
reform for primary (including teacher training and design and distribution of education materials), the start
of the legal framework reform (1990 General Education Law), and the beginning of a school administration
model with community participation in rural areas (EDUCO), were some of the initial efforts by MINED.

As part of the conception of the 1995-2005 Education Reform Plan, three processes to strengthen the
process of participatory planning and national consensus in favor of the education reform were carried out:

    (i) A complete diagnosis of the education system carried out by local institutions and international
    support;
    (ii) Composition of alliances between international and national organizations to support the education
    reform processes in a coordinated and articulated manner; and
    (iii) A national consultation process to define the core of the education reform and its main objectives
    and goals.

Towards the end of 1995, with support from the "Basic Education Modernization" Project, the reform
proposal is consolidated in the 1995-2005 Ten-Year Education Plan through the following four central
themes:

    a) Universalization of access, new modalities for provision of services were framed, seeking to
    promote integration of public and private positions, increase civil society participation and expansion
    and rehabilitation of the infrastructure network;
    b) Improvement of quality, focused on changes in the national curriculum aimed at seeking relevance,
    with a constructivist, humanist and socially committed focus, boosting the development of
    comprehensive service programs, improvement of the education assessment system, provision of
    adequate materials and teacher training;
    c) Institutional modernization, based on the redefinition of the Ministry of Education's executive role,
    sought to strengthen its training to guide, regulate, provide resources and facilitate decentralization,
    strengthen school autonomy and modernization of the administrative systems; and
    d) Training in human, ethical and civic values meant extensive teacher training and a methodology
    change aimed at participatory education, teamwork, discipline, creativity and personal effort.

Within each of these fundamental themes, the country defined specific reform strategies for basic, middle
and secondary education.




                                                     - 36 -

The Secondary Education Reform Program included actions to improve education opportunities at the
secondary school level in order to meet the increasing demand for better qualified labor. The project sought
the following benefits:

    a) Higher income for students: students graduating from secondary have an average income 52
    percent higher than those who only graduated from primary.
    b) Higher enrollment fairness.
    c) Improved consumables.
    d) Improvement in administrative efficiency.

Financing for the Secondary Education Reform was obtained through an agreement signed with the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank). The total amount of the operation
was US$77.1 million, US$58.0 million of which were financed by the World Bank and US$19.1 million
were contributed by the Government of El Salvador.

The loan was approved by the World Bank Board of Directors on November 21, 1997 and ratified by the
Legislative Assembly of El Salvador on June 4, 1998 by Legislative Decree No. 312, and published in the
Official Newspaper Vol. No. 339 dated June 26, 1998. The Legislative Assembly approved the loan
contingent on increasing the number of scholarships to be awarded from 2,340 to 3,350 and meeting the
infrastructure expansion needs of six secondary schools in addition to the 12 originally planned without
increasing the approved financed amount.

The project closing date was planned for June 30, 2003; however, certain reorientations took place during
the life of the project that caused MINED to request an extension of the closing date, which the World
Bank approved for December 31, 2005.

The investment in education as a percentage of GDP grew consistently throughout the 1990s until it
reached 3.29 percent in 2002. However, there was a slight decrease in the following two years (3.24
percent in 2003 and 2.93 percent in 2004). Such percentage decreased in 2004 due to the completion of two
operations with external financing; however, the contribution of Government funds has maintained its
growth.

                                   YEAR        GENERAL FUND            %
                                   1999          $316,859,995        94.60
                                    2000         $356,612,404         92.20
                                    2001         $388,562,751         90.60
                                    2002         $412,093,705         87.50
                                    2003         $403,637,765         83.30
                                    2004         $429,999,280         91.40
                                    2005         $445,382,435         92.10
                                    2006         $492,844,195         96.49


Within the start of the 2021 Education Plan framework, the budget allocation increased from US$470
million in 2004 to US$483 million in 2005. In addition, due to the new requirements, the education budget
was allocated an additional US$21 million. That way, public investment by the Ministry of Education
increased to US$504 million at the end of 2005 (project closing), which represented 3.04 percent of GDP
and, therefore, reverted the decrease tendency in education investment.

In terms of the education situation, by Project closing--end of 2005--the net rate of schooling (10-11) was



                                                    - 37 -

30 percent; the percentage of students with average or higher grades in the Mathematics and Language in
Secondary Education achievement test was 49.4 and 66.3 percent, respectively.



2. Project description

The Project would support the 1995-2005 Ten-Year Education Plan in terms of secondary education
(grades 10, 11 and 12) in the areas of Coverage, Quality and Modernization.

The project's target population was basic education graduates, estimated at 21,000 for 2001 and the almost
113,275 students enrolled in secondary schools.

The project's benefits were to achieve a higher percentage of students who would complete secondary
education, as these graduates would get better paid jobs than those students who only completed up to ninth
grade.

Likewise, the Project would allow the construction and expansion of national institutes, the expansion of
distance education sections in rural areas and access to secondary education for low income students
through a Scholarship Program, which would achieve higher equity in secondary education enrollment,
expanding access to students in rural areas and with lower incomes.

Support would also be provided for quality improvement through reform of education programs,
improvement of supplies, teacher training and the creation of learning resource centers, which would
provide secondary schools with science laboratories, libraries, audiovisual and computer equipment.

All the above mentioned would be supported by a process of delegation of administration to the local level,
teacher supervision mechanisms, accreditation mechanisms for secondary schools, as well as strengthened
school autonomy and community participation in the administration of secondary schools.



3. Objectives

The project's objective was to expand coverage, improving quality and efficiency of public and private
secondary schools, which translated into the following specific objectives:

    a) Expand secondary education coverage, with special attention to students from low income strata,
    by: (i) establishing a scholarship program to help poor families; (ii) extending secondary education to
    regions that currently lack secondary schools, through construction of new schools and classrooms; and
    (iii) providing distance education programs.

    b) Improve quality of secondary education services through (i) development and revision of
    curriculum, provision of teaching and learning supplies, in-service training for teachers and principals
    and innovative social formative projects; (ii) creation of learning resource centers (CRAs) to improve
    instruction through the use of new technology and audiovisual aids; (iii) rehabilitation of schools and
    equipment to support curriculum developments; (iv) implementation of a national assessment system;
    and (v) establishment of school accreditation and supervision systems to certify and monitor the
    academic and institutional performance of public and private secondary schools.

    c) Strengthen managerial capacity in secondary education, extending MINED's substantial


                                                     - 38 -

   institutional reform started under the Basic Education Modernization Project, through (i) management
   modernization at the central and departmental levels, including the design of administration, human
   resources and financial mechanisms to support secondary school management; (ii) training of school
   councils (CDE), and provision of funds to be administered at the school level; and (iii) promotion of
   civil society understanding of and participation in the secondary education sector through campaigns to
   increase public awareness and support for secondary education reform.



4. Achievements Sustainability plan and monitoring indicators for Project 4224-El Salvador Secondary
Education Reform, MINED, San Salvador, 2006.

(i)     Expanded coverage

            Secondary education coverage increased in 1998-2005. Table 1 shows net and gross coverage
            levels during 1998 and 2005. A considerable increase can be observed in the case of aggregate
            net coverage, as represented in Figure 1. This indicator reflects the percentage of youth 16 and
            17 years old enrolled in secondary education (in grades 10 or 11) with respect to the national
            population total in that age group. While this percentage barely reached 15.8 percent in 1998,
            the indicator jumps to 30.2 percent in 2005.

            On the other hand, coverage by grade also shows considerable improvement, as seen in Figure
            1. Net coverage for Grade 10 in 1998 was 9.4 percent, jumping to 21 percent in 2005. For
            Grade 11, the improvement is even larger in relative terms, as it jumps from 7.5 to 17.7
            percent during the same period.


                                                                            Table 1
                                                Gross and net coverage for secondary education
                                                                          1998, 2005
                                                                                          Net Coverage
                                                                        1998                                         2005
                 General                                               15.8%                                        30.2%
                 Grade 10                                               9.4%                                        21.0%
                 Grade 11                                               7.5%                                        17.7%

                                                                                        Gross Coverage
                 General                                               43.4%                                        56.4%
                 Grade 10                                              48.4%                                        63.3%
                 Grade 11                                              38.3%                                        49.9%
                 Source: Sustainability plan and monitoring indicators, Project 4224 ­ El Salvador Secondary Education Reform, Dr. Francisco
                 Esquivel, 2006.



            In that context, the public sector absorption capacity considerably increases, associated to an
            increase in secondary education state investment. Figure 2 shows public and private sector
            participation in secondary education enrollment absorption. Meanwhile in 1998, the public
            sector absorbed 57% of the total enrollment, in 2005 the public sector captured 71%.




                                                                - 39 -

                                                                      Figure 1
                                          Secondary education net coverage - 1998, 2005

                                                Broad
                                                Grade 10
                   35.0%                        Grade 11                            30.2%


                   30.0%


                   25.0%                                                                      21.0%

                                                                                                       17.7%
                   20.0%               15.8%


                   15.0%                           9.4%
                                                             7.5%
                   10.0%


                    5.0%


                    0.0%
                                              1998                                       2005




     Source: Sustainability plan and monitoring indicators, Project 4224 ­ El Salvador Secondary Education Reform, Dr. Francisco Esquivel, 2006.


                                                                                   Figure 2
                                                                    Public and Privae Sector
                                                                   Participation in Secondary
                                                              Education Enrollment, 1998-2005




Source: Sustainability plan and monitoring indicators, Project 4224 ­ El Salvador Secondary Education Reform, Dr. Francisco Esquivel, 2006.




                                                                           - 40 -

                Female participation in secondary education improved during the mentioned period, as seen in
                Figure 3. While in 1998 there were 103 women per 100 men enrolled in the public sector, in
                2005 this indicator increased to 106 women per 100 men enrolled.

                However, the private sector experienced a decrease from 1998 to 2005 in terms of this
                indicator. At any rate, despite the fact that female participation in the private sector in 2005
                was still slightly higher in relation to male participation in comparison with the public sector
                (107 versus 106 for the cited indicator), it can be said that the public sector investment effort
                (associated with an improvement of their relative participation in total enrollment) was
                accompanied by an effort to improve relative participation of women and reduce the difference
                with the private sector.


                                                                 Figure 3
                            Female/male secondary education enrollment ratio per sector
                                                               1998, 2005

                                                                                    111%
                                                     1998
                                                     2005
                             112%


                             110%
                                                                                              107%
                                                            106%
                             108%


                             106%               103%

                             104%


                             102%


                             100%


                              98%
                                                Public                              Private


Source: Sustainability plan and monitoring indicators, Project 4224 ­ El Salvador Secondary Education Reform, Dr. Francisco Esquivel, 2006.




(i)       Quality Improvement

                Knowledge achievement in secondary education shows gradual improvement in the last few
                years Available information only allows a comparison between 2002 and 2005.. The proportion of
                students who reported basic performance level decreased in mathematics as well as in
                language. This allowed improvement in the participation of student groups that displayed
                intermediate or superior performance, especially in the intermediate level. This was observed
                among men as well as women. Likewise, performance improved from 2002 to 2005 in the
                public and private sectors, as seen in Figure 4 in the case of mathematics.




                                                                      - 41 -

                                                                 Figure 4
                      Student distribution for Mathematics PAES per performance category
                                                               2002, 2005


                                                                       Public


                         70%            62%                                                                2002

                                                  55%                                                      2005
                         60%


                         50%
                                                                             37%
                         40%                                         32%

                         30%


                         20%
                                                                                               6%      9%

                         10%


                          0%
                                        Basic                      Intermediate              Superior




                                                                  Private

                          70%                                                                            2002

                                                                                                         2005
                          60%
                                         48%

                          50%                     42%

                                                                    34%      36%
                          40%


                          30%                                                                         22%
                                                                                              18%

                          20%


                          10%


                           0%
                                         Basic                    Intermediate               Superior




Source: Sustainability plan and monitoring indicators, Project 4224 ­ El Salvador Secondary Education Reform, Dr. Francisco Esquivel, 2006.


                Performance evolution for the PAES achievement test in language is similar to that observed in
                mathematics. Results by gender and by sector improve from 2002 to 2005. However, a slight
                percentage decrease in the private sector is observed in the superior performance group, as
                shown in Figure 5. The decrease for this group is higher in the public sector. The decrease for
                the basic level group substantially feeds the intermediate level group, but there is a certain
                degree of difficulty to improve the performance of the superior level group.




                                                                       - 42 -

                                                                 Figure 5
                        Student distribution for Language PAES per performance category
                                                               2002, 2005

                                                                    Public

                                                                                                       2002
                            60%                                             51%
                                                                                                       2005

                            50%           42%                       42%
                                                   38%
                            40%


                            30%
                                                                                            16%
                            20%                                                                     11%

                            10%


                             0%
                                         Basic                    Intermediate              Superior




                                                                  Private

                                                                                                         2002
                           70%
                                                                                                         2005

                           60%                                              50%

                           50%                                      41%

                           40%           32%

                                                  25%                                       26%     25%
                           30%


                           20%


                           10%


                            0%
                                         Basic                    Intermediate             Superior




Source: Sustainability plan and monitoring indicators, Project 4224 ­ El Salvador Secondary Education Reform, Dr. Francisco Esquivel, 2006.




These results show the challenge set out for the following years, within the framework of policies proposed
to improve the quality of the education process in secondary education. In this respect, Plan 2021 is
responding to this concern with actions such as the following:




                                                                       - 43 -

           ·          Promote good performance and increased motivation among teachers;
           ·          Ensure that the curriculum becomes a tool to clarify expected student competencies and
           that it is effectively implemented in the classroom context;
           ·          Develop certification and accreditation processes to recognize and to know people's
           competencies or performance, as well as that of teachers and schools;
           ·          Develop the information, monitoring and evaluation system to recognize the population's
           education achievements, permanently verify achievement progress and provide feedback to the
           system as well as the schools.

The Project supported the set up of knowledge assessment mechanisms through achievement tests.



(i)        Public and private secondary school efficiency

                The completion rate is associated with the performance of desertion and repetition rates.
                Therefore, an improvement in the completion rate is associated with a decrease in repetition
                and desertion rates. As shown in Figure 6, the completion rate improves in the observed period
                for grades 10 and 11 in the public and private sectors. Although the completion rate is still
                higher in the private sector, the distance between the two sectors shortens (distance between
                continuous and discontinuous same-color lines). In addition, the public sector slope decreases,
                which indicates an even larger relative improvement in Grade 11.

                The reduction of the gap between the public and private sectors is shown in Figure 6. While
                the private sector achieved 15.9 percentage points higher completion than the public sector for
                Grade 10 in 1998, this difference was reduced to 9.4 percentage points in 2004. Likewise,
                while the private sector achieved 24.7 percentage points higher completion than the public
                sector for Grade 11 in 1998, this difference was reduced to 12.1 percentage points in 2004.

                                                          Figure 6
                              Expected completion rates in secondary education
                                                        1998, 2004

                   90.0%


                   85.0%


                   80.0%


                   75,0%


                   70.0%


                   65.0%

                                    Private 1998
                   60.0%            Private 2004
                                    Públic 1998
                   55.0%            Públic 2004


                   50.0%
                                             Grade 10                                Grade 11


Source: Sustainability plan and monitoring indicators, Project 4224 ­ El Salvador Secondary Education Reform, Dr. Francisco
Esquivel, 2006.




                                                                   - 44 -

5. Project Implementation Results by Component and Subcomponent

The following results were obtained:

                                  Component 1: Expansion of Access
                               (Total component cost: US$18.6 million)

       This component included three main strategies to increase equitable access to secondary
       education:
       a)   Establish a scholarship program to subsidize student costs;
       b)   Build classrooms and provide furniture and equipment; and
       c)   Expand current distance education programs in secondary education.
                                Subcomponent 1.1: Scholarship program
                                         (Cost: US$3.4 million)

       This subcomponent would provide resources on a decreasing basis to establish a scholarship
       program for low income students that would allow (a) to increase secondary education
       access for low income; and (b) to stimulate greater private sector participation in secondary
       education.

       The program covered the country's 14 departments and there were 17,327 scholarship
       applicants.

       A total of 6,156 scholarships were awarded to low income students in 230 secondary
       education institutions, where beneficiaries covered costs for enrollment, transportation,
       clothing (uniforms), books and school supplies. A total of 5,328 scholarship holders
       graduated. The Project exceeded its initial 3,350 goal; in other words, 59 percent higher than
       originally planned.

       One of the main factors in the success of the scholarship program was the direct involvement
       of the 230 school principals who collaborated unconditionally in the academic monitoring of
       the scholarship holders benefited by the Program. Another factor was the participation of
       approximately 90 teachers who volunteered to tutor scholarship holders.

       Project management was handed to the Fundación Empresarial para el Desarrollo
       Educativo (FEPADE), selected on the basis of its previous experience in scholarship
       program management. A total of 6,887 scholarships were managed, that is, every
       scholarship granted to a student (current, retired and/or graduate) for a certain period of
       studies.
                           Subcomponent 1.2: Infrastructure and equipment
                                         (Cost: US$13.2 million)

       This subcomponent would expand the number of secondary education facilities available
       through the construction of new schools in previously selected areas, which would allow (a)
       construction of new classrooms, (b) equipment and furniture, and (c) maintenance funds.

       One hundred and six coverage expansion classrooms were built in 13 national schools,
       equivalent to 82 percent of completed schools and 70 percent of completed classrooms.



                                              - 45 -

Thirty-eight coverage expansion classrooms were financed with other funds, totaling 111
percent.

Despite redeploying funds as a result of damages to education infrastructure caused by the
earthquakes of January 13 and February 13, 2001, the Project allowed to service the
infrastructure of 19 secondary schools, one more than the 18 originally planned.

                     Subcomponent 1.3: Distance Education Program
                                   (Cost: US$2.0 million)

This component would allow the expansion of the current distance education program by
establishing new sections, especially in new schools that would be built and/or renovated.
Likewise, distance education students would have access to the new learning resource
centers. The above mentioned would be possible through: (a) establishment of new sections,
(b) technical assistance to support curriculum revision, (c) provision of school supplies; (d)
training and technical assistance to improve distance education teacher skills; and (e)
personal development activities.

By the end of 2005, 26,399 students had been served (10,100 with loan funds and 16,299
with Central Government funds) by the Distance Education Program through the creation of
354 new sections.

By the end of 2005, 4,367 students had graduated from the Distance Education Program and
enrollment was at 19,365 (15,586 students in urban areas and 3,779 in rural areas).

Also, between 1998 and 2003, the Distance Education Program curriculum was revised and
the general distance curricula for grades 8 through 12 were updated; a total of 15 modules
were updated for the last three years of basic education (grades 7, 8 and 9) and 18 for the
three years of secondary (grades 10, 11 and 12).

This update allowed the development of improved learning materials; a total of 577,194
distance secondary modules were printed and distributed, which were distributed during the
project life among the students benefited by the program. These materials were reinforced
with other types of curriculum support such as item banks, audio and video tapes.

In order to strengthen the Program, 134 coordinators and 134 tutor teachers were hired.
Simultaneously, training and technical assistance activities in distance education
methodologies and strategies were developed for approximately 770 tutor teachers, which
strengthened and updated their skills.

                           Component 2: Quality Improvement
                         (Total component cost: US$46.2 million)
This component consisted of five main strategies to improve secondary education quality:
a)   Curriculum development activities
b)   Creation of Learning Resource Centers (CRAs) to support the learning/teaching
process
c)   Rehabilitation of schools to accommodate CRAs
d)   Development of a national assessment system at the secondary school level, and



                                        - 46 -

e)    Establishment of accreditation and supervision systems.

                       Subcomponent 2.1: Curriculum development
                                    (Cost: US$13.9 million)

A series of activities would be developed within this subcomponent, including: (a)
curriculum revision; (b) training for teachers and principals; (c) education support materials
for teachers and students; and (d) creation of a program for innovative school projects in the
social formative areas.

Review of 14 general and technical secondary education programs, development,
reproduction and distribution of 45,400 new education materials and training for 11,474
teachers on new teaching methods (32 percent more than planned) and on use of new
materials were carried out.

In terms of curriculum improvement, the Project allowed:
     a)       To update the secondary education curriculum in relation to basic and
     formative area subjects.
     b)       To systematize school innovations by implementing study programs and
     training processes.
     c)       To carry out changes in learning methodology and assessment in secondary
     education.
     d)       To strengthen pedagogical processes and incorporate transverse axes.

A complete secondary education investigation was carried out, which provided the basis for
program reforms in general and technical secondary education. This gave way to the design
of a Professional Development Project that answered to the education needs identified in
each zone.

As an implementation strategy, the prioritization of needs was incorporated in the
Institutional Education Project of each secondary school, which gave them the opportunity
to participate in several training processes. This way, 34 zonal plans for professional teacher
development for 346 secondary schools in various stages were implemented: Pre-stage: 770
representing teachers from each of the schools; Stage I: 1,342 teachers in 89 training
courses, each of 40 training hours, 70 Ministry of Education professionals and 717 members
of school councils (CDE) were also trained; Stage II: 7,716 teachers were trained in 266
training workshops; and Stage III: 846 teachers were trained in 62 training workshops
carried out by the schools' self-management within the project's sustainability framework. A
total of 10,574 teacher training opportunities were provided with the development of this
Project.

Two teaching conferences were developed. The first to define the sustainability plan
guidelines for professional teacher development, and the second to share more significant
teaching experiences. The latter allowed the systematization of 90 learning experiences to
share with 100 percent of secondary education schools. This is reported in the document
titled "Catálogo de Experiencias Pedagógicas de docentes de Educación Media en el
marco del Plan Nacional de Educación 2021".




                                         - 47 -

As a result of this Project and in order to support teacher training processes and contribute
to the improvement of student learning, 34 ELDEPROD facilities were also provided with
equipment and furniture.

On the other hand, the Project supported the design, promotion and implementation of a
School Project Financing Fund called Escuelas Abiertas/Fondo Juventud.

Between 2000 and 2002, projects in 368 secondary schools were financed, 229,758
students. The Original Project Plan had only considered financing for projects in 100
schools. Also, 138 cultural centers benefited in 2001, and in 2002 the 50 best cultural
centers benefited, out of the 138 from the previous year, which meant that, approximately,
an additional 8,000 students benefited each year.

With the 2021 National Education Plan, Fondo Juventud became Proyectos Juveniles
Concursables turning into a methodological strategy for participation that has tested the
creativity, initiative and knowledge of secondary education students throughout the
country's 14 departments. The program is based in the following core themes:
·    Comprehensive education
·    Identity, culture and art
·    Sports and recreational activities
·    Civic education and youth participation

In 2005, 427 proposals participated, benefiting 237 projects from different schools,
benefiting 78,588 students.
                  Subcomponent 2.2: Learning Resource Centers (CRAs),
                            school libraries, science laboratories
                                   (Cost: US$17.3 million)

The objective of this subcomponent was to provide improved resources to support the
learning and teaching process of learning resource centers that would be created in secondary
schools.

Under this subcomponent, technical assistance would be provided to (i) buy and install
technology equipment; (b) train school personnel in the care and appropriate use of CRAs,
(iii) establish mechanisms to ensure equipment maintenance; (iv) develop, produce and
distribute teaching materials for training with computer help and use of audiovisual aids and
science laboratory equipment; (v) design and implement a support network among schools,
buy technology and science laboratory equipment, audiovisual aids and library books,
learning program packages and office supplies and operating costs.

With this Project and specifically in the Learning Resource Centers component, there is a
formal introduction of education technologies in the El Salvadoran secondary education
system. Benefited students have acquired competencies in information technology, which
empowers them to work or continue their education upon graduation from secondary school.
A culture and need to use technology resources is created to support education processes.

The CRAs Project benefited 162 secondary schools, with a population of 87,545 students
who represent 65 percent of total secondary education students. These 162 schools were



                                         - 48 -

provided with the following resources:
·    Construction or rehabilitation of a classroom to install the computer center.
·    Audiovisual and computer equipment, education software.
·    Science laboratory equipment (chemistry, physics and biology).

Close to 3,000 teachers were trained in the use of computers and 380 science teachers were
trained in the use and application of laboratories in this field.

In terms of maintenance mechanisms, 162 school councils were trained on sustainability and
how to negotiate with local authorities (mayor's office, NGOs, etc.), which has allowed the
school itself to manage and supervise the preventive and corrective maintenance of the
equipment. In addition, secondary CRA coordinators or the computer science teacher took
courses on care of CRA resources as well as network administration and management. The
objective is to generate internal school capacity to manage and maintain CRA resources.

The support network among CRA teachers was promoted through the Ministry of
Education's EDURED, a common site to exchange experiences and share ideas among the
main actors of the education community. In addition to that, several technology conferences
and best practice workshops were carried out, with the participation of national and
international speakers from the education technology field. Schools' best practices were
presented at these events.
                                     Subcomponent 2.3:
                  Rehabilitation of school facilities to improve curriculum
                                    (Cost: US$13.5 million)

The objective of this subcomponent was to improve education quality through improvements
in classrooms and school structures and rehabilitation of existing spaces to accommodate
new libraries, science laboratories and learning resource centers.

One hundred and seventeen national schools, 12 of which were affected by earthquakes, were
served. The indicator improved, reaching 117 percent achievement. Thirty-two coverage
expansion classrooms were built out of the 25 planned, achieving 128 percent.
                     Subcomponent 2.4: National Assessment System
                                    (Cost: US$1.0 million)

Secondary education student performance would be assessed under this subcomponent
through achievement tests.

Between 1998 and 2005, MINED administered the Prueba de Aprendizaje y Aptitudes para
Egresados de Educación Media (PAES) to all graduates from public and private schools in
the four basic subjects as prerequisite to obtain their secondary education diploma.
            Subcomponent 2.5: National accreditation and supervision system
                                    (Cost: US$0.5 million)

Through technical assistance, this subcomponent would allow to develop the school
registration and accreditation system, as well as strengthen and systematize the national
supervision system at the secondary level.




                                         - 49 -

          Between 2000 and 2002, MINED developed the Academic Registration System, where
          students can request their grades and school certificates. With data systematization and
          improvement in response capacity to user requests, processes have been straightened and a
          better service can now be offered to users, facilitating procedures and guaranteeing agility,
          transparency and efficacy in the delivery of information requested.

          The National Accreditation System was developed between 2002 and 2003, responsible for
          accrediting at least 90 percent of public and private secondary schools. This has allowed
          greater control over physical conditions and equipment that can be considered to authorize
          the extension of a new service. It has also allowed for a continued effort by accredited
          schools to offer a better service to the education community.

          The verification of schools as prerequisite for operation authorization falls on Accreditation
          Division personnel, responsible for school registration and control.

          The original vision of the National Supervision System was changed to the Pedagogical
          Consultancy in 1999. The latter followed a rigorous recruitment, selection and training
          process where some of the former supervisors became pedagogical consultants and new
          consultants who met the requirements were hired. Former supervisors who did not undergo
          the process were distributed among other MINED offices.

          Technical assistance to schools on learning and teaching processes is provided under this
          new system of pedagogical consultancy. Starting in 2005, new changes in the Pedagogical
          Consultancy system organization have taken place, transforming it into "Quality Monitoring
          Teams".

                                   Component 3: Institutional Strengthening
                                    (Total component cost: US$9.2 million)

         Through this component, the modernization and strengthening of the education sector with
         emphasis on the secondary education subsector would continue to be carried out, in order to
         strengthen MINED's capacity to dictate secondary education policies and guidelines, and
         improve public and private systems' capacity to provide effective education services with
         the participation of parents, private groups and organizations.

         Technical and managerial skills of MINED personnel were strengthened under this
         component through a training program on issues such as strategic planning, financial
         management, budget, school management, among others.

         The Project supported the deepening of the School Administration model in secondary
         schools, with emphasis on a management model that has allowed school autonomy and
         decentralization of functions of secondary school councils (CDEs).



6. Impact on Institutional Development
   Innovative activities carried out through the Project allowed not just a curriculum reform of secondary
   education programs, but also the creation of Learning Resource Centers in secondary schools, which
   have been extending to primary schools due to their success and are currently being financed by the



                                                    - 50 -

    Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). This has required the reorganization of some departments
    and headquarters within the Institution.

    The Dirección Nacional de Tecnologías Educativas was created in 2000 and has been in charge of all
    activities related to Learning Resource Centers; however, due to the broad CRA concept, activities
    related to science laboratories and libraries were moved to the Pedagogical Management Office within
    the Dirección Nacional de Educación as of July 2004.

    Likewise, the Youth Fund that was initially implemented by the Dirección de Juventud was reoriented
    to strengthen student coexistence and extracurricular activities among higher social risk sectors, which
    led to the establishment of the Dirección Nacional de Juventud that redefined the Fund as Proyectos
    Juveniles Concursables during the last year of project life.



7. Factors that affected Project results
a)       Factors outside of Government control
·        In 2001, the country suffered the consequences of two earthquakes that caused serious damages to
education infrastructure. This forced a modification in the original allocation of financial resources in order
to prioritize renovation. It also forced new planning of indicators.

b)       Factors subject to Government control
·        Once the Project was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors, the Legislative Assembly took
approximately one year to approve the Project and it introduced modifications proposed by the opposing
political party, which delayed Project implementation and modified the original implementation period.
·        The number of projects to be considered annually depends on the budget allocation by the Central
Government to each institution.


c)       Factors subject to MINED control
·        Since implementation of Learning Resource Centers was a new and innovative experience in the
country, there was a lack of technical assistance management by other countries with experience in the
subject. This caused some delays in the definition of the component's implementation strategy.



8. Costs and Financial Implementation of the Project
    The Project was completed on time with 99 percent financial implementation and its goals were
    achieved.

    However, the original Project allocations experienced two significant changes. The first was the
    redeployment of funds due to education infrastructure damages caused by the 2001 earthquakes.

    The second was the result of institutional policy change of the country's new government, which took
    office in June 2004 under a new vision: the 2021 National Education Plan.



9. The role of the World Bank in Project development
    From 1998 to 2005, the World Bank used supervision missions to monitor the Project; results and
    recommendations of these missions can be found in the corresponding Aide Memoires.




                                                    - 51 -

    Likewise, technical assistance and support provided by various Bank staff and constant communication
    maintained with them contributed to successful project development and closing.



10. Borrower performance
    The Project, implemented between 1998 and 2005, experienced three different administrations that
    were able to adapt the Project to changes in institutional policies and renew the secondary education
    reform vision. This has allowed to meet and sometimes exceed established goals, and at the same time
    support new goals as a result of these changes. This is how in 2005 the project promoted some of the
    programs in the 2021 National Education Plan, such as MEGATEC, PODER, EDIFICA,
    EDUCAME, among others.

    It is worth mentioning that staff continuance in MINED's key posts allowed for continuity in Project
    implementation and achieved goals at Project closing.

11. Lessons learned

    About the Learning Resource Centers:
a)       More technical assistance is needed from countries with greater experience in education
technologies that would allow faster and more secure progress in these topics.

    About the improvement of education infrastructure:
b)       MINED stipulated that implementation of various construction and renovation projects was to be
carried out with participation from the Institution's organizational units, which translated into the
improvement of institutional capacity in terms of management and administration of investment projects,
achieving the same quality and exceeding the goals in comparison with implementation through
co-implementers.
c)       Development of works through co-implementer contracting mechanisms allowed the division of
works in three parts, supervised and monitored by MINED with great results, managing to perfect the
model through new alliances with other co-implementers.

    About the scholarship program:
d)       The result of the MINED-FEPADE relationship for scholarship program administration has
allowed improvement of the management model to benefit future Ministry projects.
e)       Direct participation of principals and teachers from different secondary schools contributed to
academic performance monitoring of scholarship holders and to the results obtained by the program.

    About the Distance Education Program
f)       The distance education concept change and the strategy established by the Flexible Education
Modalities Program (EDUCAME) and its different modalities--semi-attending education (formerly
distance education), accelerated education and distance education (virtual)--will allow a reduction in the
gap between enrollment and graduates of the Distance Education Program developed by this project.
g)       A strategy to allow greater access to Learning Resource Centers by distance education students is
needed, considering that students did not have additional time to use the centers given the semi-attending
nature of such study modality.

    About curriculum improvement
h)       Rely on a teacher network link to other associated institutions.
i)       The implementation strategy that implied the preparation of the budget required for each institution


                                                     - 52 -

to later integrate it into one single plan for each network was possible after a negotiation process and the
achievement of agreements by consensus.
j)       The work strategy based on zonal networks allowed and will continue to prioritize education
training needs in each of the networks and allowed to provide a focused and specialized response to
teachers' professional development.

    About the accreditation system
k)       Modernization is based on seeking optimization of services offered to users of academic registry
and school legalization processes, guaranteeing agility, security, transparency and trust in information
management services, which will make it necessary to follow a continuous improvement process for all
processes involved.




                                                       - 53 -

Additional Annex 9. Education Investment Projections



                        Projections for Investments in Education 2004-2009
                                         (millions US$)
                                  2004        2005        2206       2007    2008   2009
Investment in Education          $ 460        $ 513       $558       $613    $668   $ 723
Education expenditure as a      16.80%       17.40%      18.65%     20.18%  21.67% 23.11%
share of total public
expenditure
Education expenditure as a       2.86%       3.14%       3.37%      3.65%   3.91%   4.17%
percentaje of GDP

Source : Long term Nacional Education (Plan 2021).




                                                   - 54 -

- 55 -

