Page  1
CONFORMED COPY       
LOAN NUMBER 4224-ES
Loan Agreement
(Secondary Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 21, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4224-ES
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
Page  2
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Assembly" means the Borrower’s legislative branch;
(b)
"Commercial code" means the code published as Decree No. 671 in the 
Official Gazette (as defined below) No. 228 on July 21, 1970, as amended to the date 
of this Agreement;
(c)
"Education Legislation" means Decree No. 917 published in the Official 
Gazette on December 21, 1996  and Decree No. 665 published in the Official Gazette on 
March 22, 1996;
(d)
"Eligible Student" means a Secondary Education student who is eligible to 
receive a Scholarship in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Scholarship 
Operational Manual (as defined below);
(e)
"FEPADE" means Fundación Empresarial para el Desarrollo Educativo, an NGO 
(as defined below) operating pursuant to its by-laws, and Decree No. 10 granting it 
juridical status, both published in the Official Gazette on April 28, 1987 as amended 
and published in the Official Gazette on September 3, 1996;
(f)
"FEPADE  Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FEPADE pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms include all schedules to 
such Agreement;
(g)
"FISDL" means Fondo de Inversión Social para el Desarrollo Local de El 
Salvador, the Borrower’s social investment and local development fund, established 
pursuant to Decree No. 610 published in the Official Gazette on November 16, 1990 as 
amended by Decree No. 826 of September 19, 1996;
(h)
"FISDL Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FISDL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (iv) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms include all schedules to 
such Agreement;
(i)
"Implementing Agencies" means collectively FEPADE, FISDL, ITCA and TTI 
(as defined below);
(j)
"Indicators" means the monitoring and evaluation indicators set forth in 
a supplemental letter of even date herewith;
(k)
"ITCA" means Instituto Tecnológico Centro Americano, the Borrower’s 
Central American technological institute operating pursuant to Decree No. 13 published 
in the Official Gazette on November 13, 1972, and administered by FEPADE in accordance 
with the terms of an agreement entered into between the Borrower and FEPADE on August 
12, 1990;
(l)
"ITCA  Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ITCA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms include all schedules to 
Page  3
such agreement;
(m)
"Learning Resource Center" means any center established in a Secondary 
Education school which is equipped, inter alia, with a library, a science laboratory, 
televisions, videos, radios, computers and didactic materials for teachers and 
students;
(n)
"MINED" means Ministerio de Educación, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education;
(o)
"Model School" means a Secondary Education school which offers in-service 
training to teachers, and which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual (as defined below);
(p)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization established and operating in 
the Borrower’s territory;
(q)
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower’s Diario Oficial;
(r)
"Pilot Scholarship Program" means the program being carried out by the 
Borrower, with the assistance of FEPADE, pursuant to the provisions of an amendment, 
dated December 20, 1996, to an agreement entered into between the Borrower and FEPADE 
on July 4, 1996;
(s)
"Procurement Agent Agreement" means the contract or agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and a procurement agent pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) 
of this agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms 
include all schedules to such Agreement;
(t)
"Project Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
describing the criteria and procedures for implementation of all parts of the Project 
other than Part A.1 thereof, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank;
(u)
"Salvadoran Colón" and "C" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(v)
"School Council" means any school council (consejo directivo escolar) 
established pursuant to the provisions of Decree No. 665 published in the Official 
Gazette on March 22, 1996;
(w)
"Scholarship" means any scholarship granted or to be granted by the 
Borrower to an Eligible Student for the financing of part of the costs of his/her 
Secondary Education pursuant to the terms of the Scholarship Operational Manual (as 
defined below);
(x)
"Scholarship Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, describing the criteria and procedures for implementation of Part A.1 of the 
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank;
(y)
"Secondary Education" means the education services provided in the 
Borrower’s territory pursuant to the provisions of articles 22 through 26 of Decree 
No. 917 published in the Official Gazette on December 21, 1996;
(z)
"Social Formative Program Activity" means any pedagogical, cultural, 
and/or athletic activity aimed at encouraging Secondary Education students to explore 
alternative ways of participating in school activities and relating with other 
students and teachers, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual;
(aa)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(bb)
"Teacher Training Institution" or "TTI" means the Borrower’s Central 
American university or other training institution satisfactory to the Bank for 
purposes of assisting in the implementation of Part B.2 of the Project; and 
(cc)
"TTI Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and TTI pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms include all schedules to 
such Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
fifty-eight million Dollars ($58,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its central bank or a commercial bank acceptable 
to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, in the event 
the account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and 
including 
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
Page  5
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Education, or any person designated by him or her 
in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MINED with the assistance of the Implementing Agencies, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through MINED, shall enter into an implementation 
agreement, or arrangement as the case may be, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, with each of:
(i)
FEPADE setting forth their respective obligations in the financing 
and/or implementation of Part A.1 of the Project, which shall 
include, inter alia, that:
(A)
the Borrower shall open a trust account, (fideicomiso) under 
the provisions of Articles 1233 through 1262 of the 
Commercial Code, and shall designate FEPADE as the fiduciary 
agent for purposes of disbursing through such account the 
Scholarships financed by the Loan; and
(B)
FEPADE shall carry out Part A.1 of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement, the FEPADE 
Implementation Agreement and the Scholarship Operational 
Manual;
(ii)
TTI setting forth their respective obligations in the 
implementation of Part B.2 of the Project;
(iii)
ITCA setting forth their respective obligations in the 
implementation of Part B.3 of the Project; and
(iv)
FISDL setting forth,  their respective obligations in the 
implementation of Part B.4 of the Project;
(c)
The Borrower shall, through MINED, enter into an agreement or contract 
with a procurement agent satisfactory to the Bank, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of handling the procurement of goods and 
services (excluding civil works) under the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the FEPADE Implementation Agreement, the FISDL Implementation Agreement, the 
ITCA Implementation Agreement, the TTI Implementation Agreement and the Procurement 
Agent Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the FEPADE 
Implementation Agreement, the FISDL Implementation Agreement, the ITCA Implementation 
Agreement, the TTI Agreement, or the Procurement Agent Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
(e)
Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)
include in its annual budget proposals submitted to the Assembly 
Page  6
the following minimum amounts, as counterpart funds for the 
financing of the Project:
(A)
$1,500,000 equivalent for calendar year 1998;
(B)
$4,400,000 equivalent for calendar year 1999;
(C)
$4,800,000 equivalent for calendar year 2000;
(D)
$4,200,000 equivalent for calendar year 2001; and
(E)
$4,200,000 equivalent for calendar year 2002; and
(ii)
at all times until the completion of the Project, operate and 
maintain in Salvadoran Colones, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Bank, a revolving fund with a quarterly balance equivalent to the 
funding requirements for the next three months of Project 
implementation.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank on or about August 31 each year, commencing August 31, 1999, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, each year or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter; and
(d)
without limitation to the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, carry 
out an evaluation of the effectiveness in the implementation of the Pilot Scholarship 
Program and by June 30, 1998, furnish to the Bank for its comments the results of such 
evaluation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  7
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Education Legislation or the Project Operational Manual or the 
Scholarship Operational Manual or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or the Implementing Agencies to 
perform any of their respective obligations set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement; and
(b)
FEPADE or ITCA or TTI or FISDL shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under their respective Implementation Agreements.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b), or in respect of the Project 
Operational Manual or the Scholarship Operational Manual in paragraph (a), both of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified, in respect of the Education Legislation, in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
Page  8
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Project Operational Manual shall have been adopted by MINED;
(b)
the revolving fund referred to in Section 3.01 (e) (ii) of this Agreement 
shall have been established and an amount of $800,000 equivalent shall have been 
deposited therein;
(c)
 the Procurement Agent Agreement shall have been entered into by the 
parties thereto;
(d)
the Scholarship Operational Manual shall have been adopted by MINED;
(e)
the FEPADE Implementation Agreement shall have been entered into by the 
parties thereto;
(f)
the ITCA Implementation Agreement shall have been entered into by the 
parties thereto;
(g)
the FISDL Implementation Agreement shall have been entered into by the 
parties thereto; and
(h)
the TTI Implementation Agreement shall have been entered into by the 
parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, with the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Procurement Agent Agreement, 
and each of the Implementation Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the respective parties thereto and they are legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the respective parties thereto in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date February 19, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower  for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Edificio Tres Torres
Av. Alvarado, diagonal Centro América
Urbanización Buenos Aires
San Salvador, El Salvador
Telex:
301 202 45
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By /s/ Cecilia Gallardo de Cano 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ana María Arriagada
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
 %of
Loan Allocated 
   Expenditures 
   (Expressed in Dollars)
   to be Financed
SCHEDULE 1 WAS DONE IN THE WRONG FORMAT
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs, and salaries of 
teachers, tutors for distance education and school supervisors;
(d)
the term "Social Formative Program" means the cost of goods and services 
related to the implementation of any Social Formative Program Activity;
(e)
the term "Operation and maintenance of schools" means the costs of goods 
and services required to maintain the buildings, equipment and furniture of Secondary 
Education schools under the Project, and consumable school supplies; and
(f)
the term "Training" means the cost of rental of space and equipment, 
travel costs and per diem of MINED’s staff providing training and of participants 
and/or recipients of training, training materials, fees paid to TTI, trainees’ 
registration fees, and other costs related to the carrying out of the training, study 
tours, seminars and meetings under Parts A.3 (b), B.2, B.3 (b), 5 (b), C.1 (a) and 
(c), C.2 (b), and C.3 (b) of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, may 
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 
30, 1997.
Page  10
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and services (other than 
consultant services) under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent; (b) civil 
works (except for the first contracts in respect of which prior review is required 
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 4, Section I, Part D. 2. (c) of the Loan 
Agreement); (c) training, Social Formative Program Activities, Scholarships, operation 
and maintenance of schools and incremental operating costs; (d) consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (e) individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to expand coverage of Secondary 
Education; (b) to improve the quality of Secondary Education; and (c) to strengthen 
the managerial capacity in Secondary Education at the national and local levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Expansion of Access to Secondary Education
1.
Provision of Scholarships to Eligible Students.
2.
Construction of about 12 new Secondary Education schools, and provision of the 
school equipment and furniture required therefor.
3.
Expansion of the Borrower’s distance Secondary Education program through, inter 
alia:
(a)
the increase of the coverage in selected areas; and
(b)
the revision of the curriculum and the design of a new promotion system 
for distance education; provision of educational materials; and training of teachers 
in distance education techniques.
Part B:
Improvement of Quality in Secondary Education
1.
Curriculum Reform
(a)
Design and implementation of a methodology to evaluate the results of 
Secondary Education by tracking the steps taken in life by selected graduates chosen 
for such evaluation;
(b)
design and printing of learning and teaching materials for Secondary 
Education; and
(c)
design and implementation of Social Formative Program Activities.
2.
Training of Teachers and Principals
(a)
In-service training of teachers and principals on the new curricular 
content and methodologies;
(b)
strengthening the managerial capabilities of the Borrower’s teacher 
training centers in San Salvador, Santa Ana and San Miguel through the provision of 
the equipment, materials and technical assistance required therefor; and
(c)
establishment of about 16 Model Schools to provide local in-service 
training to teachers, including the provision of the equipment, materials and 
technical assistance required therefor.
3.
Learning Resource Centers
(a) 
Establishment, operation and maintenance of Learning Resource Centers, 
including their libraries and science laboratories, and provision of the educational 
aids required therefor;
(b)
training of school personnel in the proper management, use and care of 
Page  11
the technological equipment of Learning Resource Centers;
(c)
development, production and distribution of materials for 
computer-assisted instruction, and audio-visual aids; and
(d)
design and implementation of a network between schools to share learning 
experiences.
4.
Rehabilitation of Secondary Education Schools
Rehabilitation of about 100 Secondary Education schools, including, inter alia, 
rehabilitation of classrooms and school structures and of existing spaces to 
accommodate school libraries, science laboratories and Learning Resource Centers.
5.
Student Assessment System
(a)
Development and implementation of a national assessment system to measure 
achievements of Secondary Education students;
(b)
design and implementation of training programs for the development of 
technical skills of selected staff of the local universities and/or research centers 
and MINED responsible for the implementation of the student assessment system referred 
to in paragraph 5 (a) above, and implementation of external evaluations thereof;
(c)
design and printing of tests, testing of Secondary Education students, 
and carrying out of a survey to determine the impact of selected associated factors on 
the learning process in both academic and vocational tracks of Secondary Education, 
and
(d)
provision of computers, supplies, and materials required for the 
implementation of the student assessment system referred to in 5 (a) above.
6.
National Accreditation System
Development of a system of registration and accreditation of Secondary Education 
schools, and provision of the equipment and office furniture required for the 
implementation thereof.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening of the Secondary Education System
1.
(a)
Strengthening of the network of Secondary Education schools with a view 
to increase the access to, and improve the internal efficiency of, such system through 
the provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and office supplies 
required therefor; and
(b)
review of MINED’s legal and management framework with a view to inter 
alia: (i) improve the procedures for transferring the Borrower’s resources to the 
School Councils, and the monitoring thereof; (ii) support the implementation of 
strategies of school-based management of Secondary Education schools; and (iii) 
rationalize the number of teachers providing Secondary Education services and the 
payment systems thereof; and
(c)
provision of technical assistance and training to, including study tours 
for, staff of selected administrative units of MINED to improve the management of the 
Secondary Education system.
2.
(a)
(i)
Design of pedagogical, management and financial mechanisms and 
procedures to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of Secondary Education schools; 
and (ii) carrying out of a pilot program to test the design of such mechanisms and 
procedures; and
(b)
Strengthening of the management capabilities of School Councils through 
the provision of technical assistance, and school materials and supplies; and the 
training of members, teachers, principals, and supervisors of Schools Councils as 
required therefor.
3.
(a)
Carrying out of a public awareness campaign to enhance support of 
Secondary Education schools and encourage the participation of the private sector in 
the delivery of the Secondary Education services;
(b)
carrying out of consultation meetings and seminars with stakeholders in 
Page  12
the Secondary Education sector on the measures proposed and/or implemented under the 
Project; and 
(c)
provision of the equipment and materials required for the campaign and 
meetings referred to in 3 (a) and (b) above.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
April 15, 2003
2,415,000 
October 15, 2003
2,415,000 
April 15, 2004
2,415,000 
October 15, 2004
2,415,000 
April 15, 2005
2,415,000 
October 15, 2005
2,415,000 
April 15, 2006
2,415,000 
October 15, 2006
2,415,000 
April 15, 2007
2,415,000 
October 15, 2007
2,415,000 
April 15, 2008
2,415,000 
October 15, 2008
2,415,000 
April 15, 2009
2,415,000 
October 15, 2009
2,415,000 
April 15, 2010
2,415,000 
October 15, 2010
2,415,000 
April 15, 2011
2,415,000 
October 15, 2011
2,415,000 
April 15, 2012
2,415,000 
October 15, 2012
2,415,000 
April 15, 2013
2,415,000 
October 15, 2013
2,415,000 
April 15, 2014
2,415,000 
October 15, 2014
2,455,000
         TOTALS:
      58,000,000
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods including 
computing equipment and books for basic libraries, but excluding books to update such 
libraries, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  13
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for books for basic libraries shall be carried out in two 
stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Civil works and printing and distribution services shall; and (b) goods 
(other than computing equipment) estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent may, be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  In the procurement of civil works, printing and distribution 
services, and goods in accordance with this Part C.1, the Borrower shall use standard 
bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
International Shopping
Computing equipment and software estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent in respect 
of computing equipment and software, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods (other than computing equipment and software) and printing and 
distribution services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent in respect of goods and 
$200,000 equivalent in respect of printing services, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Materials for school maintenance estimated to cost less than $3,000 equivalent 
per contract and books to update basic libraries estimated to cost less than $4,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent 
in respect of materials and $2,900,000 equivalent in respect of books to update basic 
libraries may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Page  14
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract: (a) procured pursuant to the provisions of Part 
B.1 hereof; (b) the first civil works contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part C.1 hereof for the implementation of Part A.2, and Part B.4 of the Project; and 
(c) the first contract for office equipment and school furniture procured pursuant to 
the provisions of Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section: (a) consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,700,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of: (i) consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (ii) procurement agents the 
Page  15
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000; and (ii) all amendments to contracts raising the cost above 15% of the 
original contract amount, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) all 
amendments to contracts raising the cost above 15% of the original contract amount, 
the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $2,700,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  16
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
