Page  1
March 22, 2001
His Excellency
Mr. Jose Luis Trigueros
Minister of Finance
Edificio Tres Torres
Av. Alvarado,
Urbanización Buenos Aires
San Salvador, El Salvador
Re:
Loan No. 4224-ES (Secondary Education Project) 
Third Amendment to the Loan Agreement
His Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated November 21, 1997 between the Republic 
of El Salvador (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), as amended.  
In response to your letter of February 12, 2001 in which you requested the Bank 
to reallocate Loan proceeds to finance: (a) the reconstruction of public schools 
damaged by the earthquake of January 13, 2001; (b) the acquisition of durable 
education materials, including reprinting, distribution and utilization of said 
materials in order to replace those materials destroyed by said earthquake; and (c) 
the provision of Municipal Grants, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement 
as follows:
I. Loan 
Agreement:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Assembly" means the Borrower’s legislative branch;
(b)
"Commercial code" means the code published as Decree No. 671 in 
the Official Gazette (as defined below) No. 228 on July 21, 1970, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement;
(c)
"Education Legislation" means Decree No. 917 published in the 
Official Gazette on December 21, 1996  and Decree No. 665 published in the 
Official Gazette on March 22, 1996 as amended to the date of this agreement;
(d)
"Eligible Municipality" means the Borrower’s political subdivision 
which meets the criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual for 
purposes of carrying out a Municipal Subproject;
(e)
"Eligible Student" means a Secondary Education student who is 
eligible to receive a Scholarship in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
the Scholarship Operational Manual (as defined below);
(f)
"FEPADE" means Fundación Empresarial para el Desarrollo Educativo, 
an NGO (as defined below) operating pursuant to its by-laws, and Decree No. 10 
granting it juridical status, both published in the Official Gazette on April 
28, 
1987 as amended and published in the Official Gazette on September 3, 
1996;
(g)
"FEPADE  Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and FEPADE pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
terms include all schedules to such Agreement;
(h)
"FISDL" means Fondo de Inversión Social para el Desarrollo Local 
de El Salvador, the Borrower’s social investment and local development fund, 
established pursuant to Decree No. 610 published in the Official Gazette on 
November 16, 1990 as amended by Decree No. 826 of September 19, 1996;
Page  2
(i)
"FISDL Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and FISDL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (iv) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms 
include all schedules to such Agreement;
(j)
"Implementing Agencies" means collectively FEPADE, FISDL, ITCA and 
TTI (as defined below);
(k)
"Indicators" means the monitoring and evaluation indicators set 
forth in a supplemental letter of even date herewith;
(l)
"ITCA" means 
Instituto Tecnológico Centro Americano, the 
Borrower’s Central American technological institute operating pursuant to 
Decree No. 13 published in the Official Gazette on November 13, 1972, and 
administered by FEPADE in accordance with the terms of an agreement entered 
into between the Borrower and FEPADE on August 12, 1990;
(m)
"ITCA  Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and ITCA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms 
include all schedules to such agreement;
(n)
"Learning Resource Center" means any center established in a 
Secondary Education school which is equipped, inter alia, with a library, a 
science laboratory, televisions, videos, radios, computers and didactic 
materials for teachers and students;
(o)
"Learning Resource Center Manual" means the manual referred to in 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(p)
"Management Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(q)
"Management Entity" means any of the entities referred to in 
Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement; 
(r)
"MINED" means Ministerio de Educación, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education;
(s)
"Model School" means a Secondary Education school which offers 
in-service training to teachers, and which meets the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Project Operational Manual (as defined below);
(t)
"Municipal Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
(u)
"Municipal Grant" means a grant made by the Borrower to an 
Eligible Municipality out of the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of 
financing a portion of the cost of a Municipal Subproject;
(v)
"Municipal Subproject" means any of the activities under Part C.4 
of the Project;
(w)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization established and 
operating in the Borrower’s territory;
(x)
"Official Gazette" means the Borrower’s Diario Oficial;
(y)
"Pilot Scholarship Program" means the program being carried out by 
the Borrower, with the assistance of FEPADE, pursuant to the provisions of an 
amendment, dated December 20, 1996, to an agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and FEPADE on July 4, 1996;
(z)
"Procurement Agent Agreement" means the contract or agreement to 
be entered into between the Borrower and a procurement agent pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (c) of this agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such terms include all schedules to such Agreement;
(aa)
"Project Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, describing the criteria and procedures for implementation of all parts 
of the Project other than Part A.1 thereof, as the same may be amended from 
Page  3
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(ab)
"Salvadoran Colón" and "C" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(ac)
"School Council" means a council (consejo directivo escolar) 
established in a Secondary Education school pursuant to the provisions of 
Decree No. 665 (as said term is defined above under the term Education 
Legislation) for purposes of administering said school;  
(ad)
"School Council Agreement I" means any of the agreements referred 
to in Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement;
(ae)
"School Council Agreement II" means any of the agreements referred 
to in Section 3.01(g) of this Agreement;
(af)
"Scholarship" means any scholarship granted or to be granted by 
the Borrower to an Eligible Student for the financing of part of the costs of 
his/her Secondary Education pursuant to the terms of the Scholarship 
Operational Manual (as defined below);
(ag)
"Scholarship Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to 
the Bank, describing the criteria and procedures for implementation of Part 
A.1 of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank;
(ah)
"Secondary Education" means the education services provided in the 
Borrower’s territory pursuant to the provisions of articles 22 through 26 of 
Decree No. 917 published in the Official Gazette on December 21, 1996 as 
amended;
(ai)
"Social Formative Program Activity" means any pedagogical, 
cultural, and/or athletic activity aimed at encouraging Secondary Education 
students to explore alternative ways of participating in school activities and 
relating with other students and teachers, which meets the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual;
(aj)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(ak)
"Teacher Training Institution" or "TTI" means the Borrower’s 
Central American university or other training institution satisfactory to the 
Bank for purposes of assisting in the implementation of Part B.2 of the 
Project; and 
(al)
"TTI Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and TTI pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms 
include all schedules to such Agreement.".
2.
Section 2.02 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(a) 
amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be disbursed) by the 
Borrower under a Municipal Grant; and (b) expenditures made (or, if the Bank 
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, 
services and incremental operating costs required for Parts A, B and C.1 
through C.3 of the Project, all to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its central bank or a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank including, in the event the account is opened in a commercial bank, 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, 
and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.".
3.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, 
Page  4
to this end shall:
(i)
carry out, through MINED: (A) the major (as set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual) construction and rehabilitation 
activities under Part A.2 of the Project; and (B) Parts A.3, B.1, 
B.5, B.6 and C.1 through C.3 of the Project, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, 
educational, pedagogical and technical practices, and the 
provisions of the Project Operational Manual and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for said Parts of the Project; 
(ii) 
(A) cause each School Council to carry out: (1) the minor (as set 
forth in the Project Operational Manual) construction and 
rehabilitation activities under Part A.2 of the Project, as deter 
mined by the Borrower, and in accordance with the corresponding 
School Council Agreement II (as provided in paragraph g below); 
and (2) the activities under Part B.3 (a) of the Project with the 
assistance of ITCA and in accordance with the corresponding School 
Council Agreement I (as provided in paragraphs (b) (iii) and (d) 
below), all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental, educational, pedagogical and technical practices; 
(B) take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable each School Council to perform such 
obligations under said agreements; and (C) not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of said Parts of the Project; and
(iii)
(A) cause each Eligible Municipality to carry out the activities 
under Part C.4 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental, educational, pedagogical and technical 
practices and in accordance with the corresponding Municipal 
Agreement (as provided in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement); (B) 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable each Eligible Municipality to perform such 
obligations under said agreements; and (C) not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of said Part of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through MINED, shall enter into an implementation 
agreement, or arrangement as the case may be, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, with each of:
(i)
FEPADE setting forth their respective obligations in the financing 
and/or implementation of Part A.1 of the Project, which shall 
include, inter alia, that:
(A)
the Borrower shall open a trust account, (fideicomiso) under 
the provisions of Articles 1233 through 1262 of the 
Commercial Code, and shall designate FEPADE as the fiduciary 
agent for purposes of disbursing through such account the 
Scholarships financed by the Loan; and
(B)
FEPADE shall carry out Part A.1 of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement, the FEPADE 
Implementation Agreement and the Scholarship Operational 
Manual;
(ii)
TTI setting forth their respective obligations in the 
implementation of Part B.2 of the Project;
(iii)
ITCA setting forth their respective obligations in the 
implementation of Part B.3 of the Project; and 
(iv)
FISDL setting forth,  their respective obligations in the 
implementation of Part B.4 of the Project.
Page  5
(c)
The Borrower shall, through MINED, enter into an agreement with a 
procurement agent satisfactory to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, for purposes of handling the procurement of goods and services (excluding 
civil works) under Parts A. 1, A.3, B.1, B.2 , B.4, B.5, B.6 and C.1 through C.3 of  
the Project. 
(d)
The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, to each School Council 
part of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of an agreement (the 
School Council Agreement I) to be entered into between the Borrower and each School 
Council for purposes of enabling each School Council to carry out the activities under 
Part B.3 (a) of the Project pertaining to the corresponding Secondary School, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the obligation of each School 
Council to carry out said Parts of the Project in accordance with a manual (the 
Learning Resource Center Manual), acceptable to the Bank which sets forth, inter alia, 
the procurement and financial management procedures for said Part of the Project. 
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the FEPADE Implementation Agreement, the FISDL Implementation Agreement, the 
ITCA Implementation Agreement, the TTI Implementation Agreement, the Procurement Agent 
Agreement and any School Council Agreement I in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the FEPADE Implementation Agreement, the 
FISDL Implementation Agreement, the ITCA Implementation Agreement, the TTI Agreement, 
the Procurement Agent Agreement or any School Council Agreement I or any provision 
thereof.
(f)
Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)
include in its annual budget proposals submitted to the Assembly 
the following minimum amounts, as counterpart funds for the 
financing of the Project:
(A)
$1,500,000 equivalent for calendar year 1998;
(B)
$4,400,000 equivalent for calendar year 1999;
(C)
$4,800,000 equivalent for calendar year 2000;
(D)
$4,200,000 equivalent for calendar year 2001; and
(E)
$4,200,000 equivalent for calendar year 2002; and
(ii)
at all times until the completion of the Project, operate and 
maintain in Salvadoran Colones, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Bank, a revolving fund with a quarterly balance equivalent to the 
funding requirements for the next three months of Project 
implementation.
(g)  
(i)
The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, to each School 
Council part of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of an agreement (the School Council Agreement II) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and each School Council for 
purposes of enabling each School Council to carry out the 
activities under Part A.2 of the Project pertaining to the 
corresponding Secondary School, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including the obligation of each School 
Council to carry out said Part of the Project in accordance with 
the Project Operational Manual; and
(ii)
the Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under any School Council Agreement II in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any School Council Agreement II 
or any provision thereof.
4.
Section 3.05 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
Page  6
"The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30 2001, employ independent 
procurement auditors acceptable to the Bank to carry out the annual technical 
audits 
referred to in (b) herein; (b) not later than March 31, each year of 
Project implementation starting in 2001, carry out an annual technical audit, 
acceptable to the Bank of the activities under Part B.3 (a) of the Project; 
(c) not later than 30 days after the completion of each audit referred to in 
(b) herein, furnish to the Bank the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.".
5.
Two new Sections are added after Section 3.05 which shall read as follows: 
"Section 3.06. (a) Upon approval of a Municipal Subproject by the 
Borrower, the Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, a portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated under Category (10) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule1 to this Agreement, to the corresponding Eligible 
Municipality pursuant to an agreement (the Municipal Agreement) to be entered 
into 
between the Borrower and said Eligible Municipality, on terms and 
conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of 
said 
Eligible Municipality to carry out the Municipal Subproject in accordance 
with 
the provisions of the Project Operational Manual; and (ii) maintain 
records and accounts, in a manner acceptable to the Bank (including any other 
information and/or documentation as the Bank may request from time to time) to 
enable 
the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement.
(b)
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Municipal 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Municipal Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
(c)
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Project Operational 
Manual, the Municipal Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.07. (a) For purposes of carrying out the major (as set forth 
in the Project Operational Manual) construction and rehabilitation activities 
under Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into at least three 
separate agreements  (the Management Agreements) with at least three entities 
(the 
Management Entities), acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, each of said agreements to include, inter alia, the 
obligation of the corresponding Management Entity to carry out, on behalf of 
the Borrower, the corresponding activities under said Part of the Project, 
including the carrying out of the environmental analyses and the monitoring 
and supervision of said activities in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Operational Manual and those of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Management 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Management Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
(c)
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Project Operational 
Manual, the Management Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of 
this Agreement shall prevail.".
6.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended in its entirety as set 
forth in Annex A to this Amendment Letter.
7.
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
"3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
$200,000 equivalent, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before 
Page  7
that date but after June 30, 1997; and 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (10) set forth in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule in respect of an Municipal Grant unless the 
corresponding Municipal Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto.".
8.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended in its entirety as set forth in Annex B to this 
Amendment Letter.
9.
Schedule 4 is hereby amended in its entirety as set forth in Annex C to this 
Amendment Letter.
10.
Paragraph 1 (a) and (c) of Schedule 5 are hereby amended in its entirety to read 
as follows:
"1 (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (10) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $5,300,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.".
II.
Effectiveness:
This Amendment Letter shall: (a) be executed in two counterparts each of which 
shall be an original; and (b) have effect as of January 13, 2001 upon receipt by the 
Bank of: (i) one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter; and (ii) evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, that: (A) the Project Operational Manual has been amended in 
accordance with the terms of this Amendment Letter; and (B) at least three Management 
Agreements have been signed by the parties thereto. Please confirm your agreement to 
the foregoing amendments by signing and dating the two counterparts of this Amendment 
Letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By /s/ José Luis Trigueros
Minister of Finance
Date:
April 6, 2001
Annex A
"1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
the Loan Allocated
   % of
    (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
Page  8
(1)
Civil works
(a)
for Part A.2
12,100,000
90% until
of the Project
disbursements
under this Category 
shall have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$9,633,000; and
60% thereafter
(b)
for Part B.4 of
 5,000,000
90% until
the Project
disbursements
under this Category
shall have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$1,530,000; and
60% thereafter
(2)
Equipment, vehicles,
 8,600,000
100% of foreign
furniture, didactic
expenditures and
materials and printing
85% of local
and distribution
expenditures
services for the
Project other than
for Part B.3 (a) and
C.4 of the Project
(3)
Consultants’ services
12,000,000
100%
for Parts A.3 (b), B.1
through B.3, B.5, B.6
and C.1 through C.3
of the Project
(4)
Training
 7,000,000
100%
(5)
Social Formative
 1,000,000
85%
Program
(6)
Scholarships
 1,650,000
75% until
disbursements
under this Category
shall have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$200,000; 50%
until disbursements
under this Category
shall have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$500,000; and
30% thereafter
(7)
Operation and
 1,750,000
100% until
maintenance
disbursements under
of schools
this Category shall
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$1,300,000; and
75% thereafter
(8)
Incremental operating
 1,000,000
75% until
costs
disbursements
under this
Category shall
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$500,000; 50% until
Page  9
disbursements under
this Category shall
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$800,000; and
30% thereafter
(9)
Goods under
 7,300,000
85%
Part B.3 (a) of the
Project, including
education equipment
and materials
(10)
Municipal Grants
   600,000
100% of amounts
disbursed for goods,
works and Consultants’
Services
(11)
Unallocated
0
TOTAL
58,000,000".
Annex B
"SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to expand coverage of Secondary 
Education; (b) to improve the quality of Secondary Education; and (c) to strengthen 
the managerial capacity in Secondary Education at the national and local levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Expansion of Access to Secondary Education
1.
Provision of Scholarships to Eligible Students.
2.
Construction or rehabilitation, as the case may be, of Secondary Education 
school facilities, and provision of the school equipment and furniture required 
therefor.
3.
Expansion of the Borrower’s distance Secondary Education program through, inter 
alia:
(a)
the increase of the coverage in selected areas; and
(b)
the revision of the curriculum and the design of a new promotion system 
for distance education; provision of educational materials; and training of teachers 
in distance education techniques.
Part B:
Improvement of Quality in Secondary Education
1.
Curriculum Reform
(a)
Design and implementation of a methodology to evaluate the results of 
Secondary Education by tracking the steps taken in life by selected graduates chosen 
for such evaluation;
(b)
design and printing of learning and teaching materials for Secondary 
Education; and
(c)
design and implementation of Social Formative Program Activities.
2.
Training of Teachers and Principals
(a)
In-service training of teachers and principals on the new curricular 
content and methodologies;
Page  10
(b)
strengthening the managerial capabilities of the Borrower’s teacher 
training centers in San Salvador, Santa Ana and San Miguel through the provision of 
the equipment, materials and technical assistance required therefor; and
(c)
establishment of about 16 Model Schools to provide local in-service 
training to teachers, including the provision of the equipment, materials and 
technical assistance required therefor.
3.
Learning Resource Centers
(a) 
Establishment, operation and maintenance of Learning Resource Centers, 
including their libraries and science laboratories, and provision of the educational 
aids required therefor;
(b)
training of school personnel in the proper management, use and care of 
the technological equipment of Learning Resource Centers;
(c)
development, production and distribution of materials for 
computer-assisted instruction, and audio-visual aids; and
(d)
design and implementation of a network between schools to share learning 
experiences.
4.
Rehabilitation of Secondary Education Schools
Rehabilitation of about 100 Secondary Education schools, including, inter alia, 
rehabilitation of classrooms and school structures and of existing spaces to 
accommodate school libraries, science laboratories and Learning Resource Centers.
5.
Student Assessment System
(a)
Development and implementation of a national assessment system to measure 
achievements of Secondary Education students;
(b)
design and implementation of training programs for the development of 
technical skills of selected staff of the local universities and/or research centers 
and MINED responsible for the implementation of the student assessment system referred 
to in paragraph 5 (a) above, and implementation of external evaluations thereof;
(c)
design and printing of tests, testing of Secondary Education students, 
and carrying out of a survey to determine the impact of selected associated factors on 
the learning process in both academic and vocational tracks of Secondary Education, 
and
(d)
provision of computers, supplies, and materials required for the 
implementation of the student assessment system referred to in 5 (a) above.
6.
National Accreditation System
Development of a system of registration and accreditation of Secondary Education 
schools, and provision of the equipment and office furniture required for the 
implementation thereof.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening of the Secondary Education System
1.
(a)
Strengthening of the network of Secondary Education schools with a view 
to increase the access to, and improve the internal efficiency of, such system through 
the provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and office supplies 
required therefor; and
(b)
review of MINED’s legal and management framework with a view to inter 
alia: (i) improve the procedures for transferring the Borrower’s resources to the 
School Councils, and the monitoring thereof; (ii) support the implementation of 
strategies of school-based management of Secondary Education schools; and (iii) 
rationalize the number of teachers providing Secondary Education services and the 
payment systems thereof; and
(c)
provision of technical assistance and training to, including study tours 
for, staff of selected administrative units of MINED to improve the management of the 
Secondary Education system.
Page  11
2.
(a)
(i) Design of pedagogical, management and financial mechanisms and 
procedures to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of Secondary Education schools; 
and (ii) carrying out of a pilot program to test the design of such mechanisms and 
procedures; and
(b)
Strengthening of the management capabilities of School Councils through 
the provision of technical assistance, and school materials and supplies; and the 
training of members, teachers, principals, and supervisors of Schools Councils as 
required therefor.
3.
(a)
Carrying out of a public awareness campaign to enhance support of 
Secondary Education schools and encourage the participation of the private sector in 
the delivery of the Secondary Education services;
(b)
carrying out of consultation meetings and seminars with stakeholders in 
the Secondary Education sector on the measures proposed and/or implemented under the 
Project; and 
(c)
provision of the equipment and materials required for the campaign and 
meetings referred to in 3 (a) and (b) above.
4.
Carrying out of municipal education activities under the jurisdiction of 
Eligible Municipalities, said activities to include, inter alia, the reconstruction of 
libraries and the carrying out of disaster mitigation awareness programs and any other 
activity approved by the Bank, all for the benefit of students of Secondary Education.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.".
Annex C
"Schedule 4 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods including 
computing equipment and books for basic libraries, but excluding books to update such 
libraries, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Two-stage Bidding Procedure
The bidding procedure for books for basic libraries shall be carried out in two 
stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  12
(a)
Civil works (with the exception of those procured under Part C.5 (b) 
below) and printing and distribution services shall; and (b) goods (other than 
computing equipment) with the exception of those goods procured under Parts C.2 (b) 
and C.3 (c) below, estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent may, be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
In the procurement of civil works, printing and distribution services, and goods in 
accordance with this Part C.1, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
International Shopping
(a)
Computing equipment and software (with the exception of those procured 
under paragraph (b) below) estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent in respect of 
computing equipment and software, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Between January 13, 2001 and December 31, 2001, both inclusive, computing 
equipment and software estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
(a)
Goods (other than computing equipment and software and goods under Part 
B.3 (a) of the Project) and printing and distribution services under the Project (with 
the exception of those procured under paragraph (c) below) estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 
equivalent in respect of goods and $200,000 equivalent in respect of printing 
services, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(b) 
Goods under Part B.3(a) of the Project (with the exception of those 
procured under paragraph (c) below) estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,300,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Between January 13, 2001 and December 31, 2001, both inclusive, goods 
(other than computing equipment and software) and printing and distribution services 
under the Project estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Materials for school maintenance (with the exception of those procured 
under paragraph (b) below) estimated to cost less than $3,000 equivalent per contract 
and books to update basic libraries estimated to cost less than $4,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent in respect of 
materials and $2,900,000 equivalent in respect of books to update basic libraries may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Between January 13, 2001 and December 31, 2001, both inclusive, materials 
for school maintenance, with the Bank’s prior agreement, may be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
Page  13
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
(b) 
Between January 13, 2001 and December 31, 2001, both inclusive, works 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract: (a) procured pursuant to the provisions of Part 
B.1 hereof; (b) the first civil works contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part C.1 hereof for the implementation of Part A.2, and Part B.4 of the Project; and 
(c) the first contract for office equipment and school furniture procured pursuant to 
the provisions of Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section: (a) consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
(a)
Consultants’ services (with the exception of those services under 
paragraph (b) and  Part C.2 below) estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
(b)
Between January 13, 2001 and December 31, 2001, consultants’ services  
Page  14
estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Quality-based Selection
Consultants’ services for the supervision of works under Part A.2 of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services for consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,700,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of: (i) consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or more; and (ii) procurement agents the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000; and (ii) all amendments to contracts raising the cost above 15% of the 
original contract amount, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) all 
amendments to contracts raising the cost above 15% of the original contract amount, 
the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply".
