Report No. PID9674
Project Name                     Mexico-Estado de Mexico Structural...
Adjustment Loan (EDOMEX)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Subnational Public Sector
Project ID                       MXPE70479
Borrower                         Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos,
S.N.C. (Banobras S.N.C.)
Implementing agency              Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
826 Insurgentes Sur
Distrito Federal
Tel:    525-228-1788
Fax:    525-228-1685
PID date                         October 25, 2000
Projected Appraisal              November 2, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 14, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1. Mexico has been rapidly decentralizing its public sector. Governments at
all three levels federal, state and municipal are active in this process
and recognize the need to improve their capacity for the new tasks. The
first phase of the federal-level reform agenda was to set hard budget
constraints on transfers from the Federal Government to the states and to
revise the financial sector rules for subnational borrowing, to create strong
disincentives against lending to uncreditworthy subnational entities. This
has been successfully supported by the $600m Decentralization Adjustment Loan
(DAL, approved December 16, 1999). The next phase of decentralization
reform will have two tracks: one for helping states adjust to, rather than
resist, the new constraints on subnational borrowing, and a second for the
continued reform of Federal policy. The Federal actions on the second track
will involve revising the tax and transfer system the Fiscal Pact - and
reforming the role of the Federal Government in sector programs.     There are
32 states in Mexico, including the Federal District. The largest is the
State of Mexico (EdoMex), which the Federal Government has chosen to be the
first state it will assist in a large way to adjust to the new environment of
subnational lending.
2. EdoMex is growing rapidly, with a population of 13 million, most of which
lives in the Mexico City metropolitan area, surrounding three sides of the
Federal District. It has a strong diversified economy, growing about 7
percent annual since 1995. Migration from other states has led to rapid
growth of demand for social and other public services. The poverty count is
high in absolute terms (some 2.9 million people qualify as extreme poor), the
state's extreme poverty rate (22 percent of the population) is lower than the
country's average (30 percent). The fiscal situation in EdoMex is not
healthy, despite the health of the local economy; its needs for adjustment
are large and, if left unattended, could destabilize the federal fiscal
outlook. Its state authorities (elected last year) have made fiscal reform
the central pillar of their agenda, which can have a powerful positive



demonstration effect to other states. If EdoMex did not adjust, many other
states might doubt if they really need to, wrecking the new federal
regulatory framework for sub-national debt. The state thus fits well the
overall federal Government's criteria for providing adjustment assistance to
states: the impact that a financial crisis in the state could have on the
federal fiscal accounts, the strength of the state's commitment to reform and
ownership of the program, and the extent of the demonstration effect for
other states
Objectives
3.  The project would support the Government of Mexico's effort to deliver
technical and financial support to the EdoMex Government's structural
adjustment. The objectives of EdoMex's program are to bring the fiscal and
financial accounts into a sustainable path, while protecting the social
sectors, and to increase accountability and transparency in management of the
state's public sector.
4. The objectives of the loan go beyond EdoMex because, for the Federal
Government's new decentralization policy to work in the long term, a critical
mass of states needs to be fully solvent and striving successfully to improve
their creditworthiness within the new regulatory framework. If the largest
state with the largest fiscal problems (EdoMex) were to lose hope under the
weight of a debt overhang and sought to subvert that framework, it could
seriously weaken the system and perhaps render it politically unsustainable.
So this loan carries a nation-wide externality.
Description
5. The reform program of EdoMex, which the loan will help the Federal
Government to support, has eight components: To increase current revenue,
the government will increase some tax rates, eliminate exemptions to its
payroll tax, and take specific steps to improve collections and compliance.
To increase capital revenue, it will embark on a program of commercializing
the state assets for which this is an appropriate option. In the education
sector, accounting for a majority of state-level spending, the state will
take measures to control teacher recruitment while protecting per-student
outlays and will take initial steps to rationalize the sector's organization
and increase its accountability for performance and efficiency. In this and
other sectors, more detailed reforms would be supported by subsequent
projects, which would become feasible once the initial reforms take hold.
For the health sector the structural-adjustment phase of reforms will make
the budget constraint more equally hard in the different parts of the state
system and will set up institutions for increased coordination between them.
For pensions, the program will protect the system's reserves from use in
current health-sector spending, improve financial management and
accountability for the reserves, reduce the implicit debt of the system, and
add a mandatory tier of funded accounts. These are substantial steps toward
the final objective of a fully-funded individual pension scheme, that would
be portable nation-wide. In water, which needs reforms from the Federal
level on down, the EdoMex strategy has three prongs: to end state budget
subsidies for operating the state water commission (CAEM), to increase
moderately the rates that CAEM charges, and to introduce innovative
regulatory incentives to ensure that municipal operators pay CAEM for their
water. In highways, the state will increase expenditures for maintenance
-2 -



(currently far underfunded) and improve planning, to lay the foundations for
subsequent investments.
6. To support all these reforms, the EdoMex government will reform its
budget and debt management: imposing a hard budget constraint on its own
accounts by disallowing financing by arrears and the assumption of
extraordinary federal transfers, increasing the accountability of the
executive to Congress; specifying a high and increasing share of the budget
according to programs, requiring the quarterly publication of detailed
reports on the execution of the budget; eliminating the capacity of the
executive to make discretionary transfers to municipalities, publishing the
municipality-by-municipality distribution of key sectoral expenditures
(education, transport, etc.), and offering technical assistance to the
municipal level. Revenue, expenditure, and budgeting reforms will be
complemented by a stronger framework for debt management, putting the state's
borrowing more under the control of the state Congress, setting specific net
borrowing ceilings in the yearly budget (rather than limiting new debt
accumulation only in relation to realized revenues, as now), and drastically
reducing floating debt.
Financing
7. The proposed loan would be for US$500 million, with three tranches, of
US$200m in early 2001, US$100m expected in mid 2001, and US$200m expected in
early 2002.
Project Implementation
8. The federal Secretary of Finance has formal responsibility for
implementation, and this will involve supervising the implementation of the
structural adjustment program by the EdoMex government. A Decentralization
Technical Assistance Loan, currently under preparation, will support
implementation of the program.
Sustainability
9. This project and the DAL will each contribute to sustaining the other, as
this project will help the State of Mexico survive and eventually thrive in
the fiscal and financial regulatory environment that the DAL supported at the
national level. The reforms supported with this project will also sustain
themselves because they will set the precedent and expectation of a greater
control role for the state Congress. Finally, a Decentralization Technical
Assistance Loan is under preparations, which would provide the Federal
Government with resources to give technical support to the implementation of
the program in EdoMex, as well as opportunity for the World Bank to continue
to offer its technical advice.
Lesson learned from past operations in the country and sector
10. Several key lessons emerge from the history of successes and failures
with sub-national fiscal reform efforts in Mexico and elsewhere, especially
Argentina and Brazil, where there is a longer history. Setting hard budget
constraints on subnational governments has critical importance. One channel
does not usually suffice to set these constraints, and it is sounder to rely
on several channels central-government rules prohibiting bailouts,
- 3 -



financial sector regulations to prohibit or strongly discourage ex ante the
banks from lending to uncreditworthy states, and laws and regulations within
the states themselves to avoid excess borrowing. Also, it has been
especially important to get the largest states to comply with the regime of
hard budget constraints and to set a positive example. While setting hard
budget constraints is critical and needs to be done upfront, many aspects of
institutional development are also necessary, within each level and between
levels. These take time and cannot all be done at once, and they often
require technical assistance. The design of the present project reflects
these lessons.
Poverty Category
The proposed project is not a targeted intervention, but the policies being
supported would protect the state spending in the social sectors.
Environmental Aspects
The project has not environmental effects and is proposed to receive an
environmental rating of C.
Program Objective Categories
The Program Objective Category is Public Sector.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel 202-458-5454
Fax 202-522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components might not be included in the final project
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 17, 2000.
- 4 -



