                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26196

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-70430)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 505.06 MILLION

                                                    TO

                 BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                                              (BANOBRAS)

                                      WITH THE GUARANTEE OF

                                   THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

          FOR A ESTADO DE MEXICO STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (EMSAL)




                                                06/27/2003




Colombia-Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective
                                as of 23 June 2003)

                            Currency Unit = Peso
                              10.62 Pesos = US$ 1
                                    US$ 1 = 10.62 Pesos

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADEFAS      Adeudos de Ejercicios Fiscales Anteriores
AFORE       Administradora de Fondos para el Retiro
BANOBRAS    Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.
CAEM        Comisión de Agua del Estado de México
CNA         Comisión Nacional del Agua
DIFEM       Desarrollo Integral de la Familia del Estado de México
EdoMex      Estado de México
EMSAL       Estado de México Structural Adjustment Loan
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IMSS        Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social
ISSEMyM     Instituto de Seguridad Social del Estado de México y Municipios
ISSSTE               Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
MXN         Mexican Peso
SHCP        Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
SSEM        Secretaría de Salud del Estado de México

                          Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                       Country Director:      Isabel M. Guerrero
                         Sector Director:     Ernesto May
                          Task Manager:       Jozef Draaisma

                                           MEXICO
                        Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27

Project ID: P070479                                                      Project Name: Estado de Mexico Structural
                                                                         Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Jozef Draaisma                                              TL Unit: LCSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan              L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70430
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (60%); Roads and highways
                            (10%); Water supply (10%); Health (10%); General education sector
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Debt management and fiscal substainability (P); Public expenditure,
                            financial management and procurement (P); Standards and financial
                            reporting (S); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization
                            (S); Tax policy and administration (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/28/2000                                        Effective: 03/26/2001
   Appraisal:    11/01/2000                                            MTR:
    Approval:    12/14/2000                                         Closing: 12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          BANOBRAS/GOVERNMENT OF ESTADO DE MEXICO
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Mauricio Carrizosa                             Mauricio Carrizosa
Team Leader at ICR:             Jozef Draaisma                                 Marcelo Giugale & Steve Webb
ICR Primary Author:             Jozef Draaisma; Erica Soler
                                Hampejsek


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

Introduction

Mexico has been rapidly decentralizing its public sector with more fiscal authority at subnational levels, in
particular in the area of public spending responsibilities. In 1999, the Mexican authorities reformed the
framework of subnational borrowing, a reform that set hard budget constraints on subnational entities and
created strong disincentives against lending to those uncreditworthy. The Bank supported this reform with a
Decentralization Adjustment Loan approved by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on December 14,
1999 (Loan 7002-ME). The reform restricted the ability of the federal government to provide discretionary
transfers and established a regulatory link between capitalization requirements for bank loans to
subnational entities and their independently determined credit ratings.

The next stage in Mexico's decentralization process is likely to have two tracks: one for helping states
adjust to the new constraints on subnational borrowing, and a second for changes in the federal tax and
transfer system and a further redefinition of the roles among the different levels of government on sector
spending responsibilities. Sustaining the reforms in the subnational borrowing framework and moving on to
the next phases of decentralization will require the cooperation of the states: responding to the new
incentive framework, dealing with a few cases of debt overhang, and developing more capacity to collect
taxes and manage their finances and spending programs.

A few states are overburdened by rapid growth in needs for public services and have fiscal situations
deeply flawed by the inappropriate incentive framework of the past. The federal government is seeking to
facilitate adjustments among such states, which is important to sustain public service delivery and may also
encourage other subnational governments to sustain fiscal discipline.

First among the states requesting and in need of adjustment assistance has been Estado de Mexico
(EdoMex), the country's most populous state. If EdoMex went into a debt crisis, it would not only impair
the delivery of social services in the state to a population of about 13 million people, but could also
endanger the new regulatory framework for subnational debt, possibly requiring a costly federal bailout,
and raising doubts in the markets about the debt of other states. The state committed itself to structural
reform and prepared, with the technical support of the Bank, a comprehensive agenda of state-level
reforms. The federal government endorsed the reform program and requested, for the first time in Mexico,
the Bank's technical and financial support in providing assistance to the state in the implementation of its
program.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan (EMSAL) was to support the Mexican
government in strengthening its decentralization reform process by assisting EdoMex adjust to the new
framework of subnational borrowing. The comprehensive program of state-level reforms not only aimed at
sustaining public service delivery in critical areas such as education, public health, and water supply, but
also at strengthening the financial and technical capacity of the state to participate in further federal
reforms in the provision of public services in these key social sectors. Furthermore, by allowing EdoMex to
carry out its adjustment in a fiscally responsible and politically and socially viable manner, the operation
aimed to avoid a subnational government debt crisis that could endanger the new regulatory framework for
subnational debt as well as the country's macroeconomic stability which is essential for poverty reduction.

With the EMSAL, the federal government mobilized the technical and financial resources of the Bank in
order to support the reform program of the government of EdoMex. This program included raising tax



                                                     - 2 -

revenue, commercializing appropriate state assets, protecting and rationalizing expenditure for education
and health, strengthening the state pension system, improving cost recovery in the water sector, reducing
fiscal deficits, limiting borrowing, and making the state government more accountable in matters of
budgeting and borrowing. Making these reforms in EdoMex are having important externalities in setting a
positive example for other states, demonstrating the necessity and feasibility of a structural adjustment
program.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The EMSAL supported a fiscal reform program of the EdoMex government spelled out in a Letter of
Development Policy sent by the Governor of the state to the federal government's Minister of Finance. The
fiscal reform program included ten components linked to the achievement of the development objective
described above. The Bank's financial support was programmed to disburse in three tranches in a period of
13 months (December 2000-January 2002) upon satisfactory implementation of the overall program,
including the provision of evidence regarding a number of key actions.

Component No. 1 - Fiscal Policy: Elimination, within two years, of the state's fiscal deficit in order to
prevent and reverse an otherwise unsustainable debt accumulation.

Component No. 2 - Tax Policy and Administration: Substantially increasing state government own
revenues by measures focused on payroll and vehicle taxes, such as increasing rates, expanding tax bases,
facilitating compliance, and strengthening enforcement.

Component No. 3 - Asset Management and Capital Revenue: Implementation of a plan for disposing of
properties susceptible to commercialization in order to improve state asset management and enhance
revenue generation.

Component No. 4 - Education: Protect the provision of education services in terms of quantity and quality
during the adjustment process and enhance the efficiency and equality in the use of resources dedicated to
the sector.

Component No. 5 - Health: Improve coverage, equity, and efficiency of the state public health network by
increasing budget allocation to the part of the system attending uninsured population, strengthening
mechanisms of cost recovery, and improving the use of installed capacity in different parts of the health
system.

Component No. 6 - Pensions: Reform the state workers pension system in order to enhance its financial
sustainability and reduce pressures on the state budget. Reform measures included: separation of the health
insurance and pension contributions, increasing contributions to reflect costs, reduction of pension benefits,
and the introduction of a defined contributions pension system.

Component No. 7 ­ Water Supply: Impose fiscal discipline in the sector in order to turn the supply of water
in the state sustainable and eliminate the need of state subsidies, through measures such as: increasing the
fees for the supply of bulk water, strengthening the enforcement framework, and establishing payment
mechanisms of water fees in order to interrupt the chain of non-payment between municipalities and
municipal water operating companies, the state water agency and the federal water commission.




                                                    - 3 -

Component No. 8 - Road Transport: Strengthen the maintenance of the state highway network in order to
prevent this system from becoming a deteriorating asset.

Component No. 9 - Financial Administration and Relations with Municipalities: Enhance transparency and
accountability of budget management and financial administration, through the publication (on the internet)
of quarterly reports on public finances, and eliminate the possibility of discretionary transfers from the
state to municipalities.

Component No. 10 - Public Debt Management: Restrain the accumulation of public debt and reduce the
stock of arrears by setting explicit net borrowing ceilings and targets for the reduction of floating debt.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory. The objectives were clear and realistic and the adjustment program
was elaborated in close cooperation between the state and federal governments with technical assistance
from the Bank. The EMSAL was designed in 2000, following the successful implementation of the DAL.
The program design took place at the time of a major political transition and change of federal
administration, and both the outgoing and incoming administrations endorsed the project preparation in
view of the quality of the reform agenda.

The project preparation adequately reflected certain risks, that while considerable proved to be manageable
during the implementation period. In this regard, the risk of reverting to fiscal imbalances of the past was
correctly identified and controlled during project implementation through adequate tranche release
conditionality. However, the implementation period proved too short to assure the generation of a fiscal
surplus after last tranche release.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome is assessed as satisfactory. During 2000 the EdoMex government with the support of the federal
government and the Bank designed a reform program aimed at the strengthening of the state's public
finances. In order for the state to carry out its adjustment in a fiscally responsible and politically and
socially viable manner, the federal government requested the Bank's technical and financial support for the
implementation of the program.

The EMSAL helped to strengthen the decentralization process of the Mexican government. The program
allowed the EdoMex government to start a process of gradual adjustment of its public finances in the face
of a recently modified regulatory framework for subnational borrowing. This framework significantly
limited the ability of EdoMex to borrow additional resources from the financial system given its already
accumulated level of public debt and low credit rating. Averting a debt crisis in EdoMex, the largest state
in the country in terms of population and the second largest in terms of GDP, not only allowed the
continued provision of essential social services (education, health, water supply), but also supported the
consolidation of reforms to the subnational borrowing framework. The latter helped to assure
macroeconomic stability in the country at a critical period of political transition and change of federal
administration.

The reform program included qualitative and quantitative targets on a broad range of policies and actions



                                                     - 4 -

with an impact on the state's revenue and expenditure that aimed to revert the trend of substantial fiscal
deficits and increasing public debt accumulation. However, the period of implementation and supervision of
the program was too short­less than 16 months­to assure fiscal discipline and to regain access to viable
sources of finance. After compliance with program conditionality (and last tranch release) the state
authorities failed to adjust expenditures upon lower-than-expected revenues, thereby incurring once again in
a substantial fiscal deficit. To compensate for the lower-than-expected revenues in 2002 as well as to
continue with the process of fiscal adjustment needed to reduce the state's overindebtedness, the federal and
Edomex governments are currently preparing a medium-term, five-year, follow-up program structured on
the basis of the EMSAL experience.

Out of the 10 program components 8 were satisfactorily implemented. The EMSAL tranche release
conditions were fulfilled, with the exception of one on the water sector component for which a waiver was
given. Annex 8 contains the list of conditions, performance indicators, and actions taken. In addition,
Mexico maintained a sound macroeconomic framework during the implementation of the EMSAL.

The following section presents a full description of the achievements under the EdoMex reform program.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The macroeconomic framework is rated satisfactory. Output growth decelerated sharply in 2001, largely
reflecting developments in the U.S. economy. Real GDP growth went down from 6.9 percent for the year
2000 to a 0.3 percent contraction in 2001. Economic growth reached a modest 0.9 percent in 2002.
Inflation continued a downward trend, with year-end inflation at 8.9 and 4.4 percent for 2000 and 2001,
respectively, and a slight increase in 2002, reaching 5.7 percent. The fiscal deficit was around 1 percent of
GDP in 2000, 0.7 in 2001 and, not taking into account the budget appropriation made late last year for the
liquidation of Banrural, the fiscal deficit stayed within the 0.6 percent of GDP target in 2002. The current
account deficit during 2002 was 2.2% of GDP, down from 2.9% in 2001 and 3.0% in 2000. Continuing
with strong fiscal and monetary policies, even in the face of a recession, has been a historic first for Mexico
and provides the basis for a sustainable recovery. Further affirmation of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework during program implementation is in the IMF 2001 Article IV Consultation Staff Report and
Board discussion of August 2001, in which the Directors referred to "the country's impressive track record
of implementing prudent macroeconomic policies". Macroeconomic stability did allow for a substantial
reduction of poverty as observed from the recently released 2002 household income and expenditure
survey. Between 2000 and 2002, despite the economic recession, extreme poverty -according to the official
poverty measures adopted by the Mexican government- reduced from 24.2 to 20.3 percent of total
population and moderate poverty from 53.7 to 51.7 percent.

Component No. 1 ­ Fiscal Policy: This component is rated unsatisfactory.

The fiscal situation of EdoMex experienced serious difficulties over the past decade.              The federal
government had to step in repeatedly with extraordinary, discretionary transfers and other forms of bailout,
including ad hoc transfers for debt service payments and restructuring after the 1995 banking crisis. More
recently (1998-2000), despite substantial increases in the amounts of federal tax-sharing, participaciones,
and other additional transfers from the federal government to subnational governments, EdoMex has had to
curtail its public investment program as it experienced a rapidly shrinking access to credit. The high debt
burden, the rapidly increasing payroll related expenditures, and the lack of development of own revenue
sources, all contributed to a lack of fiscal sustainability. The need for fiscal adjustment was broadly
recognized, though it became more urgent after the changes that were introduced in the federal framework
of subnational borrowing late 1999 (that entered into effect in April 2000). The state government designed
its structural reform program, effectively starting with the 2001 budget proposal and implementation



                                                     - 5 -

thereof, with the aim of attaining medium term fiscal sustainability. The state government set quantitative
targets with the objective of restraining the fiscal deficit, and specific measures to increase the state's own
revenue and to contain and redirect expenditures in order to maintain and, where possible, increase the
quality and efficiency of public service delivery. Such a program should also enable the state government to
improve its access to longer term financing required, among other things, to refinance and consolidate its
liabilities.

During the program implementation period (December 2000-March 2002), the state government managed
to increase its own revenues and contain its programmable expenditure incurring in a moderate fiscal deficit
(MXN 0.5 billion or 1.1 percent of ordinary income during 2001), thereby reducing its external financing
requirements. Nevertheless, during the remaining 2002 budget implementation the state authorities failed to
adjust expenditures upon lower-than-expected revenues, thereby incurring in fiscal deficit of MXN 2.7
billion or 5.3 percent of ordinary income whereas the budget envisaged a surplus of 0.9 percent.
Participaciones to EdoMex turned out MXN 2.15 billion below the level projected at the beginning of the
year by the federal government due to the economic recession and, in particular, a lower-than-expected
impact of the federal tax reform of 2002. In order to make up for lower participaciones the federal
government provided all states with an one-month advance of participaciones in December of 2002, to be
repaid in 2003. In addition, the state legislature advanced mid-term local elections (for Congress and
municipalities) from July to March 2003 which led to additional transfers to the state electoral institute
(MXN 0.34 billion) and higher spending for public works (MXN 0.85 billion) than anticipated in the
originally approved 2002 budget.

Component No. 2 ­ Tax Policy and Administration: This component is rated highly satisfactory.

As part of the EMSAL, EdoMex proposed to increase substantially its own revenue collection. Although
the National System of Fiscal Coordination gives little scope for taxation to states, at least prior to 2001,
EdoMex was not maximizing the revenue obtained from its available taxes, mainly payroll and vehicle
related taxes. Through a combination of improved tax administration and tax rate and tariff adjustments the
state planned to raise its tax revenue collection.

The program of tax administration improvement included: (i) facilitating payment and tax compliance
procedures by emphasizing payment through the commercial banking system, including the commercial
banks' electronic and internet-based payment systems, and the organization of vehicle related tax payment
campaigns at busy places such as shopping malls; (ii) emphasis on enforcement by training, increasing, and
transferring staff from government-run collection offices to enforcement tasks; and (iii) gathering more
information at the tax filing stage and better integration of tax-base databases, including the systematically
cross-checking with other records such as the social security system for the payroll tax and the vehicle
registration for the vehicle related taxes. The state also undertook publicity campaigns to get residents to
register their car and pay their corresponding taxes in EdoMex rather than in the neighboring Federal
District, and in 2002 launched a program to renew vehicle license plates (in line with a federal agreement)
which substantially improved the states' vehicle registry.

Tax rate and tariff adjustments were proposed for the payroll tax and the state tenencia on cars older than
10 years (tax rates on newer vehicles and on the acquisition of new cars are set federally though collection
is carried out by the state government). The state government proposed, in its 2001 budget draft submitted
for Congressional approval, to increase the payroll tax rate from 2.0 to 2.5 percent. A further, modest
increase of payroll tax revenue was expected to come from administrative and enforcement improvements.
Although the State Congress rejected the proposed rate increase during the 2001 budget discussion, it did
pass the same proposal for the 2002 budget. A tariff simplification (a reduction in the number of


                                                      - 6 -

categories) and, de facto, an average increase of the tariff for the tenencia of cars older than 10 years was
passed in the 2001 budget approval.

The evolution of the state's own tax revenue as a percentage of total revenue shows some important
advances made as a result of the EMSAL. Though the lack of a payroll tax rate increase during 2001
provided a setback with respect to the initial budget proposal for the year, this was recovered by 2002.
Between 2000 and 2002 payroll tax revenue increased by 50 percent from MXN 1.3 to almost 2.0 billion.
Vehicle-related taxes, particularly the tenencia, did perform strongly which can largely be attributed to the
administrative improvements described above. Total revenue from the tenencia increased by 142 percent
between 2000 and 2002 from MXN 0.57 to 1.37 billion.

Component No. 3 ­ Asset Management and Capital Revenue: This component is rated unsatisfactory.

The EdoMex reform program included a component on improved asset management in order to allow some
reduction of liabilities by selling non-essential state property. The amount of annual revenue from the sale
of state assets was estimated at MXN 0.2 billion. The target was not met due to two principal causes: the
lack of an adequate legal and regulatory framework and the persistence of the culture of administration.
The State Property Law which was passed in March 2000, that is before the design of the EMSAL,
represents a missed opportunity to initiate a more entrepreneurial administration of property and it was
impossible to enlist the local legislature to undertake a further modernization of asset management. In
addition, the decentralization of responsibilities translated into a lack of coordinated action in the public
administration, as each dependency limits itself strictly to the exercise of its obligations.

Component No. 4 ­ Education: This component is rated satisfactory.

In the area of education, the reform program aimed to protect the provision of education services during the
adjustment process and to increase the efficiency in the use of resources dedicated to the sector.

Real per-student expenditure in the public education sector increased during the implementation period.
New teachers are now hired depending on the need for services and with a selection process (rather than
automatically hiring all graduates of the normal schools, as was done before). The state established specific
targets on recruiting teachers based on education demand, quality standards, and predetermined efficiency
indicators. These indicators include: (i) recruitment of teachers only in schools where the student/teacher
ratio is below the federal standards; and (ii) the adoption of a certification exam for new teachers.

In order to improve control over human resources and thereby optimize the use of resources in the state
education sector, Edomex has made progress toward the unification of the state and federalized education
systems into a single integrated personal administration system.

Component No. 5 ­ Health: This component is rated highly satisfactory.

In the health sector, the program aimed to improve coverage, equity, and efficiency of the state public
health network. This has been achieved by allocating more resources to the sector, by increasing cost
recovery and reducing the cost of purchasing medical supplies, and by optimizing the utilization of the five
existing public institutions in the state. In particular, for the latter, two hospitals that were part of the
DIFEM were transformed into the Instituto Materno-Infantil, under the State's Secretariat of Health in
order to provide better health services for uninsured population and, in particular, the poorest women and
children of the state.




                                                       - 7 -

Component No. 6 ­ Pensions: This component is rated satisfactory.

The proposal for the pension sector was to enhance the financial sustainability of the state's workers
defined-benefit pension system separating health insurance and pension accounts, downsizing the benefits
over time, introducing a defined-contribution system, and allowing workers some level of portability. The
main limitations to a more radical reform were the legal framework that apparently prohibits changing
benefit structures for workers who have already joined a social security institution and the unions that
started out opposed to any reduction in benefits.

The new law passed by Congress in December 2001 involved a voluntary switch for current workers to the
new system and a mandatory change for new entrants. All workers will face both an expansion of the
contribution base and a gradual increase in the contribution rate. For those who opt for the new system or
are compelled into the new system as new entrants, 75 percent of this contribution goes to the existing
defined-benefit system and 25 percent to a newly designed defined-contribution system with individual
accounts.

The benefits for those who remain in the current system are untouched, they can retire at the minimum age
of 55 or after 30 years of service. Individuals under the new system will be able to retire either when the
sum of years of service and age reaches 92 or at the minimum retirement age of 57. The pensionable base
becomes the average of the last 10 years' salary instead of the average of the last six months' salary.

EdoMex enacted other changes that affect the pension system as well. Twice a year the accounts of the
ISSEMyM are now published in the official state newspaper. The financing of health care and pensions has
now been separated, with the state providing financing to cover the health care deficits as the health
contribution rates are gradually raised. Health contributions will also be positively affected immediately by
the expansion in contribution base. Finally, the ISSEMyM began the process of coordinating transfer
agreements with the IMSS, with the ISSSTE, and with the other state-level civil service pension systems in
Mexico.

Component No. 7 ­ Water Supply: This component is rated satisfactory.

The EMSAL aimed to impose fiscal discipline in the water sector and to promote private participation. In
the first case, the chain of non-payment between municipal operating companies, the State's Water
Commission (CAEM) and the Federal Water Commission (CNA) was interrupted by prohibiting the
CAEM from entering into new agreements to supply bulk water to municipalities that do not offer their
participaciones as collateral and source of payment. At the same time, state subsidies to the CAEM were
eliminated and fees for bulk water were substantially increased. These increases were an important step
toward covering costs and achieving financial self-sufficiency in the CAEM. However, the CAEM
continues with substantial financial problems, because not all municipalities have signed the new model of
bulk-water supply agreements.

The regulatory change turned out to be more difficult. Due to legal uncertainty over which level of
government (federal, state, or municipal) is responsible for regulation after the 1999 modification of Article
115 of the Constitution, the regulation to the State's Water Law was not issued by the original target date
of end-February 2001 but only until September 2001 and the Bank waived the part of the condition
referring to the date of publication. In any case, the State Water Commission complied since the beginning
of 2001 with the spirit of the key elements of the new regulation: signing only water supply contract that
meet the criteria of the regulation and preparing a program to improve procedures for payment collection,
cost coverage and reporting.


                                                      - 8 -

Component No. 8 ­ Road Transport: This component is rated satisfactory.

In the area of road transport the adjustment program aimed to prevent unmaintained highways from
becoming a deteriorating asset. This has been attained by effectively dedicating a majority of road related
expenditure to maintenance and the development of a road physical status inventory to determine
maintenance needs.

Component No. 9 ­ Financial Administration and Relations with Municipalities: This component is rated
satisfactory.

In order to increase transparency and accountability of budget management and financial administration the
state government: (i) presents its budget according to programs; (ii) publishes quarterly detailed reports on
the execution of the budget, including the situation of public debt; and (iii) has eliminated its capacity to
make discretionary transfers to municipalities.

Component No. 10 ­ Public Debt Management: This component is rated satisfactory.

In addition to fiscal consolidation to restrain debt accumulation and eventually reduce debt service costs,
the program included explicit limits on the accumulation of public debt.

Toward the end of 2000, EdoMex had accumulated an overall debt stock of MXN 29.5 billion, of which
MXN 6.5 billion consisted of accumulated arrears pointing at increasing difficulties of the state to properly
meet its financing requirements. The program therefore included an explicit nominal net-borrowing ceiling
as well as targets for the reduction of floating debt.

The state's total debt by the end of 2001 amounted to MXN 30.1 billion, of which MXN 3.8 billion
corresponded to floating debt, thereby attaining the overall program targets. At the end of 2002, however,
due to the fiscal relaxation mentioned earlier, the state's total debt stock was MXN 35 billion, of which
MXN 2.8 billion was floating debt. The strengthening of revenue from the payroll tax allowed the state
government to gain access to financial markets toward the end of 2002 through the securitization of future
payroll tax revenue. Such access to longer-term finance would have been positive if the proceeds were used
to refinance and consolidate the state's liabilities. However, the regained access to finance enabled the fiscal
relaxation that took place in the second half of 2002. Thus, even though the state made considerable
progress in its public-debt management, it did not restrain its debt accumulation and reduce floating debt to
the extent envisaged in the program.

The progress made in the implementation of the EMSAL allowed the state to improve its credit ratings
slightly: one notch by Fitch Ratings and a positive perspective note by Standard and Poor's.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate net present value or economic rate of return.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate financial rate of return.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Institution Development Impact (IDI) is assessed as modest. Institutional development with regard to
the decentralization process of the Mexican government, and particularly for the modified regulatory



                                                       - 9 -

framework for subnational borrowing, was strengthened with the EMSAL. The program constitutes a
useful reference and a workable model of federal government support for state fiscal adjustment and sets an
example to other states in demonstrating the feasibility of adjustment in areas such as own revenue
generation, social security and pension reform and the provision of health and education services.

Regarding the IDI on the EdoMex government, the successful reform to the State's Social Security Law for
public sector workers should be highlighted, given the political and legal constraints faced by state
governments and the lack of reform until now in this area at the federal level. The EMSAL also promoted
the development of planning and budgeting systems and a better coordination within the state government,
even though this did not keep fiscal discipline in the 2002 budget implementation.

The federal government entities, SHCP and Banobras, provided general support and guidance needed for
project implementation and timely loan disbursements.          However, the EMSAL did not build up the
technical involvement and structure within the federal government to the level needed for the design and
supervision of federally supported sub-national fiscal adjustment programs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Volatility of revenue. Unexpected variations in federal government revenues, due to a slowdown in
economic growth, changes in the international oil price and an overestimated impact of the fiscal reform
adopted by the federal Congress, had a direct impact on the amount of tax revenue shared with state
governments. This complicates financial planning at the state level as these participaciones make up over
40 percent of Edomex total revenue and almost 70 percent of its non-earmarked revenue.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Federal government:
Sound macroeconomic framework. The Mexican government maintained a sound macroeconomic
framework throughout the period of implementation of the EMSAL in accordance with project
conditionality and crucial for the financial planning at the state level.
Sub-national borrowing framework. The Mexican government maintained the regulatory framework for
subnational borrowing modified in 1999.

State Government:
Commitment of high level state government staff. Continuous political commitment and follow up at the
highest level of state management was essential for the successful and timely coordination of actions
committed and to be taken by different sectors.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Supervision of project implementation. While the EdoMex government had the primary responsibility for
carrying the reforms under the EMSAL, loan proceeds were on-lend by Banobras to Edomex and Banobras
provided general support and guidance needed for project implementation and timely loan disbursements.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no costs changes.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is considered as likely. Throughout and beyond the project implementation period the



                                                     - 10 -

modified regulatory framework for subnational borrowing has been consolidated. Strengthening the fiscal
stance of EdoMex and avoiding a debt crisis contributed substantially to such a consolidation.
Despite the fiscal relaxation immediately after the third tranche release, the EMSAL supported structural
changes within the state that are unlikely to be reversed. In order to compensate the fiscal deficit incurred in
2002 as well as to continue with the process of fiscal adjustment the federal and EdoMex governments are
currently preparing a medium-term, five-year, follow-up program. Bank staff has been advising on the
design of such a program, and the Mexican government may request the Bank for a technical assistance
operation to accompany the implementation of such a program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Apart from the EdoMex operation, no other state has required a federally supported fiscal adjustment
program since the adoption of the new subnational borrowing regime in 2000. As mentioned above the
federal and the EdoMex governments are preparing a follow-up program based on the EMSAL experience.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. As a direct result of the design and
implementation of the modified regulatory framework for subnational borrowing supported by the Bank
through the Decentralization Adjustment Loan (ME-7002) the Mexican government requested, in the first
quarter of 2000, Bank assistance for the design of a fiscal adjustment program for EdoMex. The Bank
rapidly fielded a multidisciplinary team that worked closely with EdoMex authorities over the
March-November 2000 period in the preparation of a comprehensive agenda of state level reforms. The
adoption of the agenda by the EdoMex government as well as its endorsement by the federal government
allowed to proceed in a timely manner with the negotiations and approval by December 2000 of the
EMSAL. It is worth noting that this process took place at the time of a major political transition and
change of federal administration in Mexico. The quality of the reform agenda allowed for both the outgoing
and incoming administration to endorse the project.

The Bank's financial support was designed for a relatively short period, 13 months, of program
implementation, which implied front-loading of loan conditionality. This allowed the fiscal relaxation by the
state after the last tranche release, thereby deteriorating the program outcome. This could have been
prevented with a longer program implementation period. A programmatic approach would, in addition,
allow the appropriate flexibility in setting specific fiscal targets under a changing environment.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision is assessed as satisfactory. The short implementation period of the
EMSAL and the nature of the program required intense supervision. The project was operational for about
16 months (December 2000-April 2002) and all tranche releases took place within four months of the
expected dates. Throughout the operational period of the project, ten formal supervision missions took
place, utilizing team members that had been involved in project preparation. In addition, the Bank's Mexico
Office maintained a close working relation with the Borrower and state government officials, which
expedited project implementation and tranche releases.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:



                                                      - 11 -

The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. The commitment from the federal and
state governments as well as the close coordination between the Borrower and the Bank allowed to design
the program in a relative short timeframe. State government officials from all the sectors included in the
program as well as representatives from the federal government were involved in the program design and
loan preparation.

As mentioned before, the loan preparation took place at the time of change of federal administration in
Mexico, and both the outgoing and incoming administration were involved and endorsed the project
preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Federal government:
The federal government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory. The federal
government's SHCP provided general support needed for the project implementation. However, project
implementation would have benefited from a closer technical involvement and supervision on behalf of the
federal government.

State government:
The state government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory. There was a strong
commitment at the highest levels of the EdoMex government throughout the project implementation period
to comply in a timely manner with the components of the program and loan conditionality. The state
government established a technical follow-up unit that took care of the coordination among the many
sectors and agencies involved in the program implementation. However, as mentioned before, once the third
tranche was released the EdoMex government failed to meet its fiscal targets established in the 2002 budget
as expenditures were not adjusted timely upon lower-than-expected revenue.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Banobras' implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory. Banobras provided general support and
guidance needed for project implementation and timely loan disbursements.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is considered satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

·       State government commitment is critical to project success The program could not have
proceeded without a medium-term vision and political commitment at the highest level of state
management. This commitment is essential to coordinate the actions of different sectors affected by the
various reforms and support the debate in the state congress, with unions and other stakeholders.

·       Reform and fiscal discipline is a medium and long-term process The program included several
reforms that are having a lasting impact ­such as in the area of tax administration, social security for state
workers and the provision of health and education services. The period of implementation and supervision
of the loan was, however, too short to assure the continued fiscal discipline needed to resolve the state's
over-indebtedness. This calls for longer periods of program implementation and, in view of uncertainties
and elements outside the control of the state government, possibly for a programmatic type of support.

·       Project preparation in electoral years requires close involvement and endorsement of
outgoing and incoming administrations The EMSAL was designed during 2000, at the time of a major



                                                    - 12 -

political transition and change of the federal administration. President Fox was elected in July and took
office in December of 2000 and throughout the period in between close involvement with both the outgoing
and incoming administrations was maintained which allowed for the timely approval and implementation of
the EMSAL. Thus, the project helped to assure macroeconomic stability in the country at a critical
political transition and to avoid a repetition of a recurrent "end-of-sexenio" crisis.

·        Evidence of compliance with public finance targets should be based on audited, official data
Differences observed between preliminary fiscal data and the final Cuenta Pública, for which the executive
branch is accountable to Congress, are of a magnitude that call into question the reliability of preliminary
figures.    Figures from audited reports, including the annually presented Cuenta Pública, instead of
preliminary ones should be used as evidence of fiscal performance.

·        Effective coordination is fundamental for program implementation In view of the
comprehensive nature of fiscal adjustment programs and the number of agencies involved in the state and
federal governments, an effective coordination on behalf of the state government proved essential for timely
program implementation and efficient supervision. It helped to maintain the focus of agencies involved on
the program objectives and commitments.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A summary translation of the comments provided by SHCP, Banobras, and the EdoMex government is the
following:

· The observations stated by the World Bank are correct, though in some cases they are severe particularly
with regard to the fiscal relaxation by the state after the last tranche release. It should be pointed out that
the political conditions and the insufficiency of the federal participaciones were, to a great extent, the
cause that led the state not to meet its established goal of a surplus of 0.9% of ordinary income for 2002.
The state government received approximately MXN 2,151 million less than expected for this concept,
which if received would have yielded a much lower deficit.

· It would be important to emphasize the effort made by EdoMex for the reduction of Adefas (floating
debt), since it went from MXN 6.7 billion in 2000 to MXN 2.8 billion in 2002. This is an example of state
government's willingness to eliminate this type of debt and to set up a better control in debt management.

· It should be recognized the work of the state government with the local Congress since, in less than a
year and a half, two budget initiatives, a new Social Security Law, a new Planning Law, a modification on
the Regulation of the Water Law and the Financial Regulations of the ISSEMyM, and initiatives to
increase the payroll tax rate were submitted to Congress; all of this including the recommendations made
by the World Bank.

· In addition, authorization to commercialize non-essential state assets was requested to Congress,
unfortunately this authorization was not obtained; this requires further work with the Legislative branch.
Although the expected financial outcome from the commercialization was not achieved, the activities
undertaken laid the basis for a better financial performance of the government in the future and provide
evidence of the Governor's commitment to continue with the reform program.

· The achievements in the area of tax policy and administration are highly satisfactory. This allowed the
state to be first among Mexican states in the area of tax enforcement on several occasions and to carry out



                                                      - 13 -

the first issue of state bonds securitized with own revenue.

· In terms of transparency, the EdoMex government is publishing its quarterly financial statements since
the year 2001. This has been of crucial importance in the bond issue as well as to obtain an upgrade in the
credit rating by FITCH and a positive perspective by Standard & Poor's last year.

· It should also be emphasized that, in view of the project's central objective, a financial crisis in EdoMex
that would have forced the federal government to make additional transfers was avoided thereby keeping in
place the reforms in the area of financial decentralization. In addition, the bond issue has put the state in
the forefront of the financial decentralization process.

· The Institutional Development Impact should have been rated substantial. Intersectoral coordination
among state government entities was strengthened and awareness on the budget management and
appropriation of the importance of the reform program at the institutional level has taken place.

· The dimension of the program is very broad, and a year and a half is insufficient to obtain immediate
results in strenghtening the state finances. The time for the results of the program to show has been too
short, therefore it would be an interesting exercise to carry out some kind of further evaluation in the
future. In addition, in view of the persistence of state financial problems, the state continues to work with
Banobras and the World Bank in the design of a follow-up program based on the EMSAL but with a longer
term implementation period and allowing more flexibility in the design of policies.


(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan - Policy Actions for Tranche Release
Fiscal Policy
Board Presentation:
l The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress will have a deficit in the overall balance of no more
   than 0.5% of ordinary income.
       This condition was met. The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress as of November 13, 2000
       includes ordinary income of MXN 47.76 billion and expenditures of MXN 47.98 billion,
       implying a fiscal deficit of MXN 0.22 billion or 0.46% of ordinary income.
Second Tranche:
l The accumulated overall deficit in the state's 2001 budget as executed through the end of the most
   recent quarter will be no more than 0.5% of ordinary income.
       This condition was met. The report covering the state's 2001 budget execution over the period
       January-June 2001 (published and sent to Congress as of August 2, 2001), shows that the
       difference between ordinary income and expenditures amounts to a surplus of MXN 2.37 billion
       or the equivalent of 10.02% of ordinary income.
Third Tranche:
l The accumulated overall deficit in the state's 2001 budget as executed through the end of the most
   recent quarter will be no more than 0.5% of ordinary income.
       This condition was met. The report covering the state's 2001 budget execution over the period
       January-December 2001 (preliminary data published by the state government on the internet as
       of March 2002) shows a surplus on the state's budget between ordinary income and expenditures
       of MXN 12.3 million or the equivalent of 0.03% of ordinary income. Nevertheless, the final
       public finance figures from the state's Cuenta Publica 2001 published in June 2002 (after third
       tranche release) show a deficit of MXN 526 million equivalent to 1.1% of ordinary income.
l The state's 2002 budget submitted to Congress will have a surplus in the overall balance of at least
   0.9% of ordinary income.
       This condition was met. The state's 2002 budget submitted to Congress as of December 4, 2001
       contains a surplus between ordinary income and expenditures of MXN 467 million, which is
       equal to 0.9% of ordinary income. However, the state's Cuenta Publica 2002 published in June
       2003 indicates a substantial deviation from this budget target as the state posted a deficit of
       MXN 2,740 million equivalent to 5.3% of ordinary income.
Tax Policy and Administration
Board Presentation:
l The state government will have submitted the necessary legal amendments to Congress to: (a) expand
   the base of the payroll tax to include all remuneration, all firms, and all employees, based on location
   of employment, except for exemptions already granted for 2000-2001 to new firms located in the
   state which will expire at the end of calendar year 2001; and (b) increase the rate of the payroll tax to
   2.5%.
       This condition was met. The proposed amendment to the state's financial code (Codigo
       Financiero del Estado de Mexico y Municipios) sent to Congress as of November 13, 2000
       includes the expansion of the payroll tax base and the increase of the rate from 2% to 2.5%.
       However, Congress did not approve the increase in the payroll tax rate until the 2002 budget.
Education
Board Presentation:
l The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress will include: (a) real, per-student expenditure in




                                                  - 15 -

  education not less than the comparable expenditure in the approved budget for 2000; (b) teacher
  recruitment targets based upon pre-defined efficiency and quality standards; and (c) provisions to
  guarantee that the monthly savings accrued in the execution of the education budget by the state's
  Secretariat of Education will be retained by that Secretariat.
      This condition was met. The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress as of November 13, 2000
      includes: (a) expenditures in education of MXN 22.6 billion, which represents an annual increase
      in per-student expenditure of more than 7% in real terms; (b) explicit teacher recruitment targets;
      (c) a provision to assure that savings accrued in the execution of the education budget can be
      retained by that sector to be used for priority programs.
Third Tranche:
l The state's 2002 budget submitted to Congress will include: (a) real, per-student expenditure in
  education not less than the comparable expenditure in the approved budget for 2001; and (b) teacher
  recruitment targets based on pre-defined efficiency and quality standards.
      This condition was met. The state's 2002 budget submitted to Congress as of December 4, 2001
      contains: (a) expenditures in education of MXN 24.8 billion, which represents an annual increase
      in per-student expenditure of 2.5% in real terms; and (b) the allocation of resources to the state's
      managed education system that allows for the recruitment of new teachers to a number that
      prevents the risk of quality loss due to higher number of students per teacher in view of the still
      increasing population of students, while assuring a better distribution of teachers within the
      system by avoiding the hiring of additional teachers for schools with a teacher/student ratio above
      the federal standard. Teacher certification tests continue to be applied by the Secretaria de
      Educacion for all newly recruited teachers.
Pensions
Board Presentation:
l The government will have directed ISSEMyM to employ pension-related funds only for
  pension-related expenditures.
      This condition was met. The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress as of November 13, 2000
      includes a specific subsidy of MXN 440 million to cover ISSEMyM's deficit in health service
      provision and therefore avoid the use of the pension fund. This was enforced with reforms to
      ISSEMyM's internal financial regulations, which require the separation and publication of the
      health and pension funds administration and financial results.
Second Tranche:
l The government will have submitted to Congress a draft bill that will: (a) reduce the implicit pension
  debt of the state by at least 20% over its value at the end of 2000 through, among other things,
  reduced benefits and increased retirement ages; (b) collect contributions on the non-salary portion of
  the remuneration (on a mandatory basis for new entrant workers and on a voluntary basis for other
  workers), with these contributions to be deposited into individual accounts in the AFORE system;
  and (c) grant workers who leave the ISSEMyM pension system the right to receive a prorated pension
  upon reaching retirement age.
      This condition was met. Adoption of the state's social security bill of law submitted to the state's
      legislature on September 5, 2001 will reduce the implicit debt of the pension system, deifned as
      the net present value of its benefit expenditures minus contributions revenues summed over the
      2001-2051 period, by 27% based on the interest rates specified in the Letter of Implementation.
      The mandatory retirement age as weel as the number of years of service are increased in the
      proposed law, from 50 to 60 and 30 to 35 years respectively. The proposed law also introduces
      capitalized individual accounts as part of the pension system, with employer and employee
      contributions on 25% of the total remuneration. The law will apply to all new entrants in public
      service, whereas current employees are, in accordance with the Constitution, provided the option
      to continue to recieve benefits under the current legislation or to switch to the revised framework.


                                                  - 16 -

Health
Board Presentation:
l The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress will increase the budget of the Secretariat of Health
  (SSEM) by at least 2% in real terms compared to 2000 and will provide funding for ISSEMyM
  health so that no funds for health need to be taken from the pension fund.
      This condition was met. The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress as of November 13, 2000
      allocates MXN 2.9 billion to the Institute and Secretariat of Health, which represents an increase
      in real terms of almost 15% as compared to the approved 2000 budget. It also includes a specific
      subsidy of MXN 440 million to cover ISSEMyM's deficit on health.
Third Tranche:
l The state's 2002 budget submitted to Congress will increase the allocation for SSEM by at least 4%
  in real terms compared to the 2000 budget.
      This condition was met. The state's 2002 budget submitted to Congress contained an increase in
      the budget allocations for the health sector for the provision of services to the uninsured (mostly
      poor) population through the SSEM by 37% in real terms compared to the state budget of 2000.
l Contribution rates for ISSEMyM health services will have been raised by at least 4 percentage points
  from the rate in December 31, 2000 (2 percentage points each from employers and employees).
      This condition was met except for the evenly allocation of the rate increase between employees
      and employers. The state's new social security law adopted by state Congress in December 2001
      contains contribution rates for ISSEMyM health services at 3.5 and 4.5% for employee and
      employer respectively, as well as a redifinition of the salary base on which these rates apply,
      broadening the base on average by 36%. The combination of rate increase and the broadening of
      the salary base corresponds to an equivalent increase of contributions by 5 percentage points; 1.8
      percentage points on account of the employee and 3.2 on account of the employer. The total
      increase in the contribution allows ISSEMyM's health service to be financially sound without the
      need to recur to resources from the pensions system or for additional subsidies from the central
      state government.
Water
Board Presentation:
l An administrative agreement between the state's Secretaria de Finanzas y Planeacion, de Desarrollo
  Urbano y Obras Publicas and the CAEM concerning CAEM's payment collection will have been
  signed and become effective with the content specified in the state's LDP.
      This condition was met. The agreement, signed as of December 2000, included clear conditions
      to impose the obligation to CAEM of signing agreements with the municipalities for the use of
      federal tax share (participaciones) as guarantee for the payment of the water fees.
l The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress will include: (a) no transfers to CAEM other than
  transfers for investments that will be specifically included in the public investment program of the
  state; and (b) an increase of at least 3% in real terms in the water rates charged by CAEM, relative to
  the rates in effect in October 2000.
      This condition was met. The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress as of November 13, 2000
      includes no budgetary transfers to CAEM. Water rates, published in the state's Official Gazette
      as of November 30, 2000, were increased by more than 3% in real terms relative to the rates in
      effect in October 2000.
Second Tranche:
l Regulations for the Water Law will have been issued and published in the state's Official Gazette not
  later than February 28, 2001, in accordance with the policies in the state's LDP concerning CAEM's
  water supply agreements, payment collection, cost coverage, fiscal reporting, and ways for the
  private sector to participate in water provision, including Contratos Integrales de Administracion and



                                                   - 17 -

  concessions.
      This condition was eventually met. The state published regulations to its Water Law on
      September 2001. The delay in the publication was due to the need to make the regulation
      consistent with the new constitutional framework governing municipalities. A waiver for the
      delay in the publication date was given.
l All water supply agreements among CAEM, municipal water organizations, the state and the
  municipal governments signed since November 16, 2000, will have complied with the relevant
  inter-agency administrative agreement and the subsequent regulation.
      This condition was met. All agreements signed since November 16, 2000 contain clauses that use
      federal tax sharing (participaciones) to guarantee the payment of water charges. Legal opinions
      from the national government have verified the legal force of these agreements. Deductions from
      participaciones hace actually been made in some cases to secure payment.
Third Tranche:
l The state's 2001 budget as executed will have included no transfers to CAEM other than transfers for
  investments specifically included in the public investment program of the state:
      This condition was met. The financial statements of CAEM for the year ending December 31,
      2001 as published in the state's Official Gazette on March 19, 2002 indicate that CAEM did not
      receive any budgetary transfers throughout 2001.
l The state's 2002 budget submitted to Congress will include: (a) no transfers to CAEM other than
  transfers for investments that will be specifically included in the public investment program of the
  state; and (b) an increase of at least 6% in real water rates charged by CAEM relative to the rates in
  effect in October 31, 2000.
      This condition was met. The state's 2002 budget submitted to congress contained: (a) no
      budgetary transfers to CAEM; and (b) an operating budget for CAEM consistent with water
      rates published as of November 30, 2001 providing for an increase of the average water rate, in
      real terms, by 36% as January 1, 2002 compared to the average rate prevailing on October 31,
      2000.
Financial Administration and Relations with Municipalities
Second Tranche:
l The government will have submitted to Congress (a) a draft bill (Iniciativa de Ley de Planeacion) to
  establish, inter alia, the procedures governing integrated financial management and sector
  performance indicators applicable to the state budget, and (b) a draft bill to amend the Codigo
  Financiero del Estado de Mexico y Municipios requiring, inter alia, that any intra-year reforms to
  the state budget must preserve the same overall balance as in the budget initially approved by the
  state legislature for the corresponding year and that future state budgets be prepared, presented, and
  executed according to program budgeting procedures.
      This condition was met. The bill for a Planning Law submitted to Congress as of September 11,
      2001 had provision to establish integrated financial management, to reinforce program budgeting
      and to require sector performance indicators in the state budget. The bill submitted to Congress
      to amend the Fiscal Law included provisions regarding overall fiscal balance and program
      budgeting procedures, all in accordance with the commitment, and was passed by Congress.
l The government will have presented to Congress and posted on the internet quarterly reports, through
  the end of the most recent quarter, detailing (a) the execution budget (compared with the approved
  budget), and (b) the amount and terms of all outstanding debt (including the floating debt, categorized
  by the time outstanding for accounts payable).
      This condition was met. The quarterly reports sent to the state legislature and which also referred
      to in other actions mentioned above were made available on the internet under
      http://www.edomexico.gob.mx/finanzas/gest_finan/html/index.htm.



                                                  - 18 -

Public Debt
Board Presentation:
l The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress will have an explicit nominal net borrowing ceiling
  equivalent to no more than 5% of ordinary income (to finance the overall deficit and to settle the
  floating debt) and a requirement for the government to report quarterly to Congress the amount and
  terms of all debt outstanding, including floating debt.
      This condition was met. The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress as of November 13, 2000
      sets a net borrowing ceiling of 5% of ordinary income or MXN 2.38 billion.
l The state's 2001 budget submitted to Congress will provide for reduction of the stock of floating
  debt, relative to that existing on December 31, 2000, by at least 40% by December 31, 2001.
      This condition was met. The 2001 net borrowing ceiling of MXN 2.38 billion allows the state to
      meet its financial requirments consisting of a MXN 0.22 billion fiscal deficit and the reduction of
      its floating debt, estimated at the time of budget preparation at MXN 4.7 billion, by 40%.
Second Tranche:
l The government will have reduced the stock of floating debt by at least 20% relative to the stock
  existing on December 31, 2000.
      This condition was met. The stock of floating debt was reduced from MXN 6,530 million
      outstanding as of December 31, 2000 to MXN 3,661 million outstanding as of June 30, 2001, a
      reduction by MXN 2,869 million or 44% of the stock of floating debt outstanding as of
      December 31, 2000.
Third Tranche:
l The government will have reduced the stock of floating debt by at least 40% relative to the stock
  existing on December 31, 2000:
      This condition was met. The stock of floating debt was reduced from MXN 6,530 million
      outstanding as of December 31, 2000 to MXN 3,782 million outstanding as of December 31,
      2001, a reduction by MXN 2,748 million or 42% of the stock of floating debt outstanding as of
      December 31, 2000.
l The state's budget for 2002 submitted to Congress will: (a) allow for the reduction of the stock of
  floating debt by at least 80% relative to the stock of floating debt outstanding as of December 31,
  2000; and (b) have an explicit nominal net borrowing ceiling not higher than 80% of the stock of
  floating debt on December 31, 2000, minus the reduction of floating debt that took place in the
  execution of the 2001 budget:
      This condition was met. The state's 2002 budget submitted to Congress as of December 4, 2001
      contained: (a) an explicit nominal net borrowing ceiling of MXN 2,607 million, which is
      equivalent to 40% of the stock of floating debt existing as of December 31, 2000; and (b) this net
      borrowing ceiling was based on a reduction of the stock of floating debt during 2001 of the
      minimum required 40% of the referred stock of floating debt, leaving another 40% of the stock to
      be reduced and financed through net borrowing during 2002. However, the lack of fiscal
      discipline in the 2002 budget implementation led to a reduction of the stock of floating debt
      during 2002 to an amount of MXN 2.831 million, thereby reducing this stock to 57% of the stock
      outstanding as of December 31, 2000.




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
First Tranche                                              200.01          200.01              100
Second Tranche                                             100.00          100.00              100
Third Tranche                                              200.00          200.00              100

Total Baseline Cost                                        500.01          500.01
                        Total Project Costs                500.01          500.01
                                        Front-end fee        5.05             5.05
                  Total Financing Required                 505.06          505.06


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)


                                                - 20 -

   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
First Tranche                  200.01        0.00         0.00       200.01        0.00       0.00       100.0     0.0       0.0
Second Tranche                 100.00        0.00         0.00       100.00        0.00       0.00       100.0     0.0       0.0
Third Tranche                  200.00        0.00         0.00       200.00        0.00       0.00       100.0     0.0       0.0




                                                           - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

It was not possible to calculate economic costs and benefits for this project.




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              May, 2000                 7    Mission Leader (1); Co-Task
                                             Manager (2); Country Economist
                                             (1); Sector Leader (1); Team
                                             Assistant (1); Consultant (1)
              May, 2000               17     Mission Leader (1); Co-Task
                                             Manager (2); Country Economist
                                             (1); Sector Specialist (4);
                                             Research Analyst (1); Team
                                             Assistant (2); Consultant (6)
              June, 2000              25     Mission Leader (1); Co-Task
                                             Manager (2); Sector Specialist
                                             (10); Country Economist (1);
                                             Research Analyst (1);
                                             Team Assistant (2); Consultant
                                             (8)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              October, 2000           12     Mission Leader (1); Co-Task
                                             Manager (2); Legal
                                             Specialist (1); Asset
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Water Specialist (1);
                                             Pensions Specialist (1); Sr.
                                             Country Officer (1);
                                             Consultant (4)


 Supervision
              January, 2001             8    Co-Task Manager (2); Lead              S               S
                                             Economist (1); Economist
                                             (2); Research Analyst (1);
                                             Sr. Water Specialist (1);
                                             Sector Leader (1)
              February, 2001            6    Sr. Country Officer (1); Country       S               S
                                             Officer (1); Research Analyst (1);
                                             Co-Task Manager (2); Sr.
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              March, 2001               6    Co-Task Manager (2); Economist         S               S
                                             (1); Research Analyst (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Specialist (1)
              April, 2001               6    Co-Mission Leader (2);                 S               S
                                             Economist (2); Research Analyst
                                             (1); Water Specialist (1)
              June, 2001                8    Co-Task Manager (2); Sr.               S               S
                                             Country Officer (1); Economist



                                              - 23 -

                                           (1); Research Analyst (1);
                                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                                           Financial Management Specialist
                                           (1); Water specialist (1)
               August, 2001            4   Co-Mission Leader (2);                S    S
                                           Economist (1); Research Analyst
                                           (1)
               October, 2001           3   Director (1); Lead Economist (1);     S    S
                                           Mission Leader (1)
               November, 2001          5   Task Manager (1); Water               S    S
                                           Specialist (1); Pensions Specialist
                                           (1); Asset Management Specialist
                                           (1); Research Analyst (1)
               December, 2001          2   Task Manager (1); Research
                                           Analyst (1)
               February, 2002          5   Task Manager (1); Lead
                                           Economist (1); Water Specialist
                                           (1); Research Analyst (1); Legal
                                           Consultant (1)

 ICR
               March, 2003            2     Task Manager (1); Reserach
                                            Analyst (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

EMSAL files.
Giugale, M. and S. Webb, eds. 2000. Achievements and Challenges of Fiscal Decentralization: Lessons
from Mexico. World Bank. Washington, D.C.
Giugale, M., ed. 2002. Reforma Estructural a Nivel Subnacional: Logros y Lecciones del Estado de
México. Mimeo.
Gobierno del Estado de México. 2001. Cuenta Pública del Gobierno y Organismos Auxiliares del Estado
de México 2000.
---------. 2002. Cuenta Pública del Gobierno y Organismos Auxiliares del Estado de México 2001.
---------. 2003. Cuenta Pública del Gobierno y Organismos Auxiliares del Estado de México 2002.
J.P. Morgan-Estado de Mexico. 2002. Prospecto Definitivo de Colocación de un Programa de Certificados
Bursátiles.
World Bank. 2001. Implementation Completion Report of the Decentralization Adjustment Loan. Report
No. 22310.




                                                 - 27 -

- 28 -

