Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7400 ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED ESTADO DE MEXICO STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.06 MILLION
FOR
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
(BANOBRAS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
November 16,2000
Colombia-Mexico-Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



MEXICO-FISCAL YEAR
January I-December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of 25 October 2000)
Currency Unit   =  Peso
9.62 Pesos   =  US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADEFAS                   Adeudos de Ejercicios Fiscales Anteriores
AFORE                     Administradora de Fondos para el Retiro
BANOBRAS                 Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
CAEM                     Comisi6n de Agua del Estado de Mexico
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CETES                    Certificados de la Tesoreria de la Federacion
CNA                      Comisi6n Nacional del Agua
DAL                      Decentralization Adjustment Loan
DECPG                    Development Economics Prospects Group
DF                       Distrito Federal
DIF                      Desarrollo Integral de la Familia
DRD                      Decentralization and Rural Development
EdoMex                    Estado de Mexico
EMSAL                    Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan
FY                        World Bank Group's Fiscal Year
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
IDB                       Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
ISEM                     Instituto de Salud del Estado de Mexico
ISSEMYM                  Instituto de Sistema de Salud del Estado de Mexico y Municipios
LDP                       Letter of Development Policy
MxP                       Mexican peso
PACEM                    Programa de Apoyo Crediticio a Estados y Municipios
PAYGO                    Pay-as-you-go
SEDESOL                   Secretaria de Desarrollo Social
SHCP                      Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
TIIE                     Tasa de Interes Interbancaria de Equilibrio
UDI                      Unidad de Inversi6n
WBG                      World Bank Group
WEO                      World Economic Outlook
IBRD
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti
Chief Economist:                Guillermo Perry
Director, LCSPR:                Ernesto May
Country Director:               Olivier Lafourcade
Lead EconomistlManager:          Marcelo Giugale
Co-task Managers:               Marcelo Giugale
Steven Webb
Task Manager for EdoMex TA:     Fernando Rojas
Team Production Support:        Michael Geller
This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of Messrs/Mmes. Rojas, Mendez (LCSPS); Webb (LCSPE);
Clifford, Giugale, Velez, Draaisma, Luff, Macias, Ordonez, Urbiola, Geller, Toxtle (LCCIC); Genta-Fons, Blasco Munoz
(LEGOP); Schwarz (HDNSP); Alvarado, (LCSFW); de Mergelina (LCSFR); Diaz, Fernandez, Gonima, Gonzalez, Messere,
Piza, Sherman (consultants). The team was co-led by Mr. Giugale (Lead Economist, LCC IC) and Mr. Webb (Senior
Economist, LCSPE) and worked under the general guidance of Mr. Olivier Lafourcade (Director, LCCIC).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
ESTADO DE MEXICO STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY .......................................................                                                       i
I.        BACKGROUND  AND  RATIONALE .............1.......................................... 
II.   TiE ECONOMIC POLICY CHALLENGES OF ESTADO DE MEXICO .................................... 3
Current Revenue .......................................................                                                         4
Debt ........................................................                                                                   5
Education .......................................................                                                               6
Health .......................................................                                                                  6
Pensions ........................................................                                                               7
Water .......................................................                                                                   7
Transport-Roads .......................................................                                                         8
Financial Administration  and  Budgeting .......................................................                                 8
III. THE EcoNoMIc REFORM PROGRAM OF THE EDoMEx GOVERNMENT ...............                                                                       8
A. The Program's Policies ........................................................                                                    9
Revenues .......................................................                                                                9
Education .......................................................                                                             10
Health .......................................................                                                                10
Pensions .......................................................                                                               11
Water .                                                                                                                        12
Roads .12
Management of Budgeting and Debt .13
B. The Program's Outcomes .....................                                                                                      14
IV. THE PROPOSED EDOMEX STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (EMSAL)    .. 14
A. Objectives .......................................................                                                                14
B. Content ........................................................                                                                  18
C. Risks .......................................................                                                                     18
D. Poverty Impact .......................................................                                                           21
E.  Loan  Amounts, Conditions, and  Arrangements ................................................... 21
V.  THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK FOR THE PROPOSED EMSAL ............................ 22
VI.   BANK  STRATEGY  ........................................................                                                                23
A. The CAS and The Proposed EMSAL .......................................................                                             23
B. Complementarity with Other World Bank Operations ......................................... 24
C.  Complementarity  with  Operations by  Other Institutions ..................................... 24
VII. RECOMMENDATION .25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TEXT TABLES
Table 1. Mexico-Estado de Mexico
Fiscal Balance, 1999-2005, Scenario with Reforms ...................................... 15-16
Table 2. Mexico-Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan (EMSAL)
Matrix of Policy Commitments for Tranche Releases of EMSAL ................. 19-20
FIGURES
Table 1. Mexico-Estado de Mexico
Overall Balance to Ordinary Revenue Ratio (Alternative Reform Scenarios) ...... 17
Table 2. Mexico-Estado de Mexico
Total Debt to Ordinary Revenue Ratio (Alternative Reform Scenarios) .............. 17
ANNEXES
A.  INDICATORS
Al. Mexico at a Glance .27-28
A2. Mexico Social Indicators .29
A3. Key Economic Indicators .31-32
A4. Balance of Payments .33
A5. Key External Debt Indicators .35
A6. External Financing Requirements
and Projected Sources of Financing .37
A7. Total IBRD Debt Flows and Stock .39
A8. Status of Bank Group Operations .41
A9. Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio .43
B. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK .45
Recent Economic Developments .45
Macroeconomic Prospects and Vulnerability .46
External Financing Requirements .47
C. AMOUNT AND STRUCTURE OF PUBLIC DEBT
IN THE ESTADO DE MEXICO .49
D. LETTERS OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                        .51
English Translation of Letters of Development Policy .79
MAP



MEXICO
ESTADO DE MEXICO STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (EMSAL)
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos, S.N.C.
Guarantor:                     The United Mexican States
Implementing Agency:           Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Amount and Terms:              US$505.06 million fixed spread, disbursement-linked, U.S.
dollar-denominated loan, with level repayments and no
automatic interest rate fixation. Commitment charge: 0.85
percent for the first four years, and 0.75 percent thereafter.
Front-end fee: 1 percent of the loan amount, capitalized.
Description:                   The proposed operation will directly support the Mexican
government in strengthening its decentralization reform
process. This involves helping the states adjust to hard
budget constraints, in terms of getting resources from the
federal level or borrowing them from the financial system.
It also involves preparing the states with the financial and
technical ability to participate in forthcoming federal
reforms to the tax and transfer system and for the provision
of key social services, namely, education and health, that
have been decentralized with transfers to the states. The
operation would help Mexico to ensure macroeconomic
stability, which is essential for reducing poverty, and to
increase the resources for education and health services to
the poor.
With the EMSAL, the Federal Govermment will mobilize
the technical resources of the World Bank and financial
resources through BANOBRAS-in order to support the
economic reform program of the government of the State of
Mexico (Estado de Mexico, EdoMex), the largest state in
the federation. This program includes raising taxes and
improving enforcement, commercializing appropriate state
assets, protecting and rationalizing expenditure for
education and health, strengthening the state pension
system and making it more compatible with the private
sector, raising rates and enforcing collections in the water
sector, reducing deficits, limiting borrowing, and making



the state government more accountable in matters of
budgeting and borrowing.  Making these reforms in
EdoMex will have the largest possible externality in setting
a positive example for other states, demonstrating the
necessity and feasibility of a strong structural adjustment
program.
The EMSAL will be a key tool in delivering World Bank
support for the three objectives that are central to the
present Country Assistance Strategy (CAS as discussed by
the Board of Executive Directors on June 8, 1999):
effective public governance, growth and macroeconomic
stability, and social sustainability. A subnational operation
of this type was envisaged in the CAS, both in scope and
timing, and its amount lie within the previously projected
lending envelope and exposure limits.
Risks and Benefits:            Four types of risks will be operative: (a) the state could
revert to the fiscal imbalances of the past; (b) the Federal
Government could withdraw its support from EdoMex's
reform program; (c) the state Congress, currently controlled
by parties in opposition, could block one or several of the
policy initiatives embedded in the adjustment program; and
(d) the reform program could prove too formidable a task
for the implementation capacity of EdoMex's government.
The strong commitment of the federal and state
governments, the design of the program, and the
preparation of a EdoMex Technical Assistance Project,
which will be sent to the Board later this fiscal year, help to
mitigate these risks.
The EMSAL operation will carry three broad, core
benefits: strengthening the public sector in EdoMex to
serve the needs of 13 million people, making a strong
example of structural adjustment to comply with the federal
decentralization reforms, and preparing the groundwork for
the next round of federal reforms.
Schedule of Disbursements:     The full amount of the loan (US$505,060,000) is expected
to be disbursed in three tranches, of US$200 million in
early 2001, US$100 million expected in mid-2001, and
US$200 million expected in early 2002
Closing Date:                  December 31, 2002
Project ID Number:             MX-PE-P070479



Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.,
with the Guarantee of the United Mexican States
ESTADO DE MEXICO STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
President's Report
I. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
1.    Mexico has been rapidly decentralizing its public sector, with more political competition
and fiscal authority at subnational levels. Governments at all three levels-federal, state and
municipal-are active in this process, and they recognize the need to improve their capacity for
the task and to improve coordination between the levels. In the fall of 1998 the Federal
Government requested the assistance of the World Bank to prepare a diagnostic of the
decentralization process and an agenda of reforms to be done at the Federal level. The Bank
agreed that it would be best to start with diagnosis and recommendations at the Federal level and
in April 1999 delivered this agenda to the Federal Government. They found the agenda useful
and requested that the Bank publish it and the background papers as a book, which was done. l
2.    The first phase of the federal-level reform agenda was to set hard budget constraints on
transfers from the Federal Government to the states and to revise the financial sector rules for
subnational borrowing, to create strong disincentives against lending to uncreditworthy
subnational entities. In 1999, the Mexican authorities proceeded with the first phase of its
reform agenda, which the Bank supported with a US$600 million Decentralization Adjustment
Loan (DAL).2 The first reforms have succeeded thus far. By steering clear of a subnational debt
crisis like that of Brazil's Minas Gerais in 1999, Mexico has harvested the rewards of its
conservative monetary and federal fiscal policies. The economy is currently growing at over 7
percent p.a., its inflation rate is in single digits and declining, its exports are booming, and its
balance of payments current-account deficit remains manageable (below 3.5 percent of GDP).
Such a remarkable economic performance, assisted by the exemplary political transition that is
following the July 2000 presidential elections and by the strength both of the US economy and of
international oil prices, has not gone unnoticed-Mexico's sovereign foreign debt is now
considered investment grade, and all of its commnitments under the existing IMF Stand-By
Arrangement have been exceeded The country recently moved to pre-pay all its debt with the
Fund-some US$3 billion-and to treat the Stand-By as purely precautionary. The benefits of
this are more than macroeconomic, for continued progress in poverty reduction requires avoiding
crises like the one in 1994-95 that brought poverty levels back to where they had been a decade
before.
3.    The success of these reforms was no less remarkable on the decentralization front itself.
Through the December 1999 reforms, the Federal Government imposed a "hard budget"
constraint on states and municipalities. It did so by renouncing its own power to hand out
discretionary transfers and by establishing an innovative regulatory link between capitalization
1. M. Giugale and S. Webb, eds., 2000, Achievements and Challenges in Fiscal Decentralization-Lessons from
Mexico, World Bank, Washington DC.
2. Loan Number 7002-ME, approved by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on December 14, 1999.
I



requirements for bank loans to sub-nationals and their independently determined credit ratings.3
This has prompted a new attitude toward adjustment and transparency at tlle sub-national level,
as states and municipalities have proactively moved to obtain and enhance their credit ratings (on
which their credit access now depends). There is now healthy competition among subnational
governments for the political rewards from high ratings. In less than a year since the reforms
were put in place, the three largest international credit rating agencies have become active in
Mexico and have rated, or are in the process of rating, almost all of the states and several
municipalities.4
4.     The next stage in Mexico's decentralization reform will have two tracks: one for helping
states adjust to, rather than resist, the new constraints on subnational borrowing, and a second for
the continued reform of Federal policy. The Federal actions on the second track will involve
revising the tax and transfer system and reforming the role of the Federal Government in sector
programs that have been decentralized to the states, especially education, health, and water. The
Federal authorities are aware that sustaining the first phase of the federal reforms and moving on
to the next phases will require the cooperation of the states: responding to the new incentive
framework, dealing with a few cases of debt overhang, and developing more capacity to collect
taxes and manage their finances and spending programs.
5.     The States, however, find themselves in very diverse situations. Virtually all states need
sector reform and investment; a few are not only willing to reform but also have the management
capacity and creditworthiness to proceed imnmediately with increased borrowing for investment.
Many states have the willingness to reform and not much debt at present, but lack the financial
and program management capacity necessary for enlarged investment programs; they will need
to get substantial technical assistance prior to or perhaps along with investment lending, to assure
that funds are well used and that borrowing is not excessive. Finally, there are a few states that
are overburdened by rapid growth in needs for public services and have fiscal situations deeply
flawed by the inappropriate incentive framework of the past (for example, bloated fiscal
expenditure and debt overhang, inspired by the practice of politically driven transfers from the
federation). The Federal Government is rightly seeking to facilitate adjustment among such
states. Such adjustment will be important to sustain public services in these states, mostly very
populous, and to get them ready to participate in the next phase of the Federal Government's
decentralization reform-revising the tax and transfer system and refornming the education,
health, and water sectors. Adjustment of these states will also be important as a demonstration to
encourage other sub-nationals to sustain fiscal restraint and as a way to build further national
support (and avoid resistance) to its discipline-imposing reforms.
6.     The Federal Government has three criteria for selecting the states it will support with
adjustment lending: (a) the impact that a financial crisis in the state could have on the federal
fiscal accounts, (b) the strength of the state's commitment to reform and ownership of the
3. For a detailed discussion of Mexico's new regulatory system for sub-national borrowing see M. Giugale, A.
Korobow and S. Webb, A New Model for Market-Based Regulation of Sub-National Borrowing, World Bank
Policy Research Working Paper Series, No. 2370, July 2000.
4. All DAL-related policy commitments have been met and, following delivery of various documentary evidence,
the operation's second and final tranche (US$300 million) has been disbursed. A "Quality at Entry" Assessment
performed on the DAL operation by an internal expert panel in March 14, 2000 found the quality of "...this task
to be fully satisfactory with some elements of best practice."
2



program, and (c) the extent of the demonstration effect for other states. First among the states
asking for, and in legitimate need of, adjustment assistance is Estado de Mexico (EdoMex), the
country's largest, most populous and, in many aspects, leading sub-national entity. If EdoMex
went into a debt crisis, it would not only impair the delivery of social services to millions there,
but could also wreck the regulatory framework for subnational debt, perhaps even requiring a
costly federal bailout, and would raise doubt in the markets about the debt of other states. If
EdoMex did not adjust, many other states might doubt if they really need to. Thus, the Federal
Government reacted positively to the state's request for assistance. The state has a new
government, elected in 1999, that has publicly committed itself to structural reform, both in
public statements and in numerous discussions with the current and incoming Federal
administrations, some of which the World Bank has participated in. Adjustment by EdoMex will
have a powerful demonstration effect on other states, showing them ways to deal with difficult
fiscal issues.
7.    For its efforts to facilitate an adjustment program for the state, the Federal authorities
requested the technical and financial support of the World Bank. Some of that support has
already come in the form of a comprehensive agenda of state-level reforms for EdoMex,
prepared by the Bank.5 The Federal Government also requested a (US$500 million) Estado de
Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan (EMSAL) to enable it to provide adequate financial support
for the state's adjustment effort. Specifically, it would allow Banobras to lend to the state
through the Fondo de Apoyo a Estados y Municipios (FOAEM), a fideicomniso that assists the
development of subnational governments. This Report explains the objectives, content, and risks
of the proposed EMSAL. There would also be a parallel EdoMex Technical Assistance Project
(currently being identified).
8.    The proposed EMSAL would be the first time in Mexico that the Bank has supported the
Federal Government and Banobras in providing assistance for a state-level structural adjustment
6
program. It would deepen reforms already supported by the previously mentioned DAL. Like
the DAL, the EMSAL would be a key tool in delivering the three pillars of the Bank's current
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in Mexico7-effective public governance, macroeconomic
stability, and social sustainability. With the increasing responsibility of subnational governments
for delivering social services in Mexico, supporting reforms at that level becomes critical to the
Bank's mission.
II. THE ECONOMIC POLICY CHALLENGES IN ESTADO DE MEXICO
9.     EdoMex is the largest Mexican state, with a population of 13 million and still growing
rapidly. Most of the EdoMex population live in the Mexico City metropolitan area, surrounding
5. The agenda, and the analytical work that underpins it, was produced and delivered by a multi-disciplinary World
Bank team that worked with the EdoMex authorities during a series of visits to the state over the March-
September 2000 period. Beyond extensive working sessions with sector Ministers, the preparation of the agenda
included a two-day retreat with the full state Cabinet in May 2000, led by the state Minister of Finance, as well
as ensuing policy presentations to the state Governor.
6. Similar state-level adjustment loans have been granted for Uttar Pradesh in India (report number P7365-IN),
several provinces in Argentina, most recently Catamarca (report number P7381-AR), and several states in Brazil
including Rio Grande Do Sul (report number P6982-BR).
7. Report Number R99-92 (IFC\R99-82), discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on June 8, 1999.
3



three sides of the Federal District (D.F.), but the state also includes a second urban center
(Toluca) and many rural areas. It has a strong diversified economy, with an estimated GDP in
1998 of MxP365 million (10.4 percent of the country's GDP), growing at over 7 percent per year
in real terms since the 1995 recession, and a proud tradition of providing public services. It was
an early leader in areas such as education, health, social security services, and urban and regional
planning. Because of its size and continued immigration, however, EdoMex has more poor
people than any other state, about 7.7 million in 1996, with 2.9 million in extreme poverty,
although the state's poverty rate (60 percent) is lower than the country's average (62 percent).8
10.   Despite the state's overall economic success, the EdoMex government now has extreme
versions of the problems facing all the major Mexican states-rapidly growing demand for
education and health services and urban infrastructure, large numbers of public workers poorly
allocated in a set of institutions inherited from an era of centralized federal dominance,
antiquated budget practices, and a high debt burden, which make it difficult to provide much-
needed social services and new infrastructure. These are serious shortcomings for a state that,
because of its fast growth, is attracting immigrants from other states at the rate of 300,000 per
year. In the absence of adjustment, this renders the state government, elected in 1999 for a six-
year term, virtually unable to operate under the discipline that the federal authorities imposed on
sub-national credit markets at the end of last year.
i1.   The fiscal situation in EdoMex is not healthy, despite the health of the local economy.
For example, through 1999 the state could not generate a fiscal current account surplus, and
virtually all public investment was funded with borrowing-a precarious practice. Furthermore,
public investment was low in 1998-99, below the previous three years even in nominal terms and
by all accounts far below what the growing economy needs. Limited, and rapidly shrinking,
access to credit was at least part of the reason. More fundamentally, the state's problems are
rooted in its inability to raise sufficient resources and spend them efficiently at the sectoral level.
Those problems are briefly described below.9
12.   CURRENT REVENUE.  Like all Mexican states, EdoMex depends heavily on federal
transfers-for, about 85 percent of its revenue, not counting funds that are passed automatically
to municipalities. And, like the other large states, EdoMex gets, per capita, less such transfers
than the national average.  The federal fiscal pact restricts state revenues to a couple of
potentially elastic taxes and a large number of fees and charges-most of them obsolete and
inefficient. State tax policy and tax administration resulted largely from fears of tax wars with
the D.F. and other states that surround the Mexico City metropolitan area. Own revenues come
mainly from a payroll tax and annual fees (effectively a tax) for automobile registration. The
payroll tax is paid by firms, at 2 percent of base salaries. There are many exceptions, most
importantly for the self-employed and for firms with less than five workers, for the first year of
new firms and new hires, and for compensation other than the base salary. Some firms,
especially banks, pay the tax in the D.F. at the firm's headquarters rather than in the state where
workers are located. The auto fees include a small charge for cars over 10 years old and a larger
charge for newer cars, which is actually a federal fee the collection and revenue of which has
8. The state's extreme poverty rate is 22 percent (1996), below the national average of 30 percent.
9. A ftiller diagnostic analysis of the problems is presented in the background documents produced by the EMSAL-
team during the preparation of the reform agenda. Those documents are available on request.
4



been totally delegated to the states. Many EdoMex residents now choose to pay their (new) auto
fees in the D.F. or other states. Taken together, wage taxes and auto fees equal only 0.6 percent
of state GDP and around 16 percent of expenditure before federal conditional transfers-much
lower than in other states with strong industrial and commercial sectors, like Chihuahua and
Nuevo Le6n, where the own revenues equal 0.85 percent of state GDP and cover 30 percent of
expenditure before federal conditional transfers. In the D.F., own revenue equals 2.6 percent of
state GDP, the highest in the country. Lack of local fiscal effort has, in other words, contributed
to making the fiscal problem  in EdoMex more severe than in most other states.  Tax
administration has traditionally focused on collection (recaudaci6n), with little attention to the
higher revenue-cost potential of auditing and enforcement (fiscalizaci6n).
13.   The limited state tax revenue is only partly due to lack of local fiscal effort. Another
reason is the tax distribution arrangement between the federal and state governments, whereby
the states delegated virtually all their taxing powers, including personal and corporate income
and sales taxes, to the federation in exchange for formula-driven revenue shares (or
participaciones). This arrangement suited the Mexican federation in pre-decentralization times
(especially before 1997) because the states had little responsibility for expenditure decisions and
their finances were de facto underwritten by the Federal Government. As more expenditure
responsibilities are delegated to lower levels of government to capture the efficiency gains
associated with closer proximity between decisionmakers and final users, it is natural that the tax
system will have to be reformed in the future to devolve taxing powers to the sub-national
governments. However, this will call for a nation-wide political agreement beyond the faculties
of any individual state. In the meantime, EdoMex like other states has the scope and need to
build up its administrative capacity and public acceptance for increased local taxation.
14.   DEBT. EdoMex has a large stock of debt, especially relative to the resources effectively
controlled by the state. Like most states, and in spite of a constitutional ban on sub-national
borrowing from foreign sources or in foreign currency, it was overindebted prior to the national
fmancial crisis of 1995, and its prior debt was restructured, with federal assistance, into inflation-
indexed debt, still held by banks. This so-called UDI debt is about two thirds of the state's total.
Unlike most Mexican states, which cut back their net borrowing or even paid off their debt after
the 1995 crisis, EdoMex continued to run deficits. Part of the post-1995 debt is regular bank
loans, from congressionally approved borrowing, but over half of the peso debt is arrears to
suppliers and revolving credits-"floating debt"-well in excess of what would be normal for
the size of the state's investment program. Annex C provides more details on the origin and
structure of the debt, and a discussion of how the state's program and the proposed loan would
reduce and refinance it.
15.   Every year the EdoMex authorities are forced to seek large debt roll-overs (estimated at
MxP2.5 billion for 2001). Those roll-overs are increasingly difficult for the state to obtain,
especially after the December 1999 reform of the sub-national credit markets. It has witnessed a
worrisome shortening of the average maturity of its debt (new loans are rarely for longer than a
year) and an increase in average real interest rates.  This has undermined the state's
creditworthiness and the willingness of its existing lenders to continue extending credit, as their
own exposure reaches prudential limits. A related institutional problem is the relative autonomy
of the state executive in borrowing decisions. The annual budget law allows the government to
borrow up to 5 percent of the estimated annual total revenue of the state; this 5 percent amounts,;_
5



however, to over half of the revenue raised by the state itself Thus, the state faces strong
financial pressures for structural adjustment.
16.   EDUCATION. Education accounts for about 60 percent of programmable state spending,
that is, net of debt service and municipal transfers. Coverage of basic education is good in
EdoMex, with almost all children attending primary schools and significant recent increases in
the number attending secondary. Despite the successes in reducing the number of students
repeating grades or dropping out, many of the students completing primary and secondary school
have not obtained the knowledge and skills envisaged in the curriculum or needed to succeed in
the job market. In 1993 the Federal Government turned over almost all of its basic education
activities to the state; at that time, EdoMex already had its own parallel system of comparable
size, albeit relatively concentrated in rural areas. EdoMex, more than most states, has expanded
the coverage of basic education, and still today has one of the highest per student expenditures in
the federation.
17.   The federal and EdoMex education systems continue to operate independently within the
state, each with a full administrative superstructure and no effective coordination between them,
even in planning. Competing for students on the basis of quality of instruction could be good,
but the system does not work that way. The former federal system gets earmarked resources
from the Federal Government on the basis of the cost of the pre-1993 system, with adjustments
negotiated on the basis of inflation and state population, and implicitly political influence. The
federal Secretary of Education negotiates teacher wages with the national union. Allocation of
teachers within the former-federal system is supposedly based on demand factors, like number of
students, although union rules limit the impact of such factors. The state system is even more
explicitly driven by the supply of teachers, who have been effectively guaranteed a job if they
graduate from teachers' schools (escuelas normales). In addition, they are allowed to choose
their location after a few years seniority, often choosing administrative positions or urban
schools that are already relatively well staffed.
18.   In addition, teachers are not held accountable for educational outcomes and often not
even for their own attendance, especially in rural areas.  The supervisors are union
representatives. Because of the volume of resources going to the sector, the EdoMex Secretary
of Finance has effectively managed its budget, reallocating some of the federal education
transfers to the state part of the sector and, at times, even outside the education sector. The
EdoMex Secretary of Education lacks real responsibility for outcomes in the sector because so
many of the critical decisions are taken by others-the state and federal teachers' unions, the
federal Secretary of Education, and the state Secretary of Finance.
19.   HEALTH. Health indicators for EdoMex are relatively good by national and international
(developing country) standards, reflecting the long tradition of public health provision and the
extensive participation of the private sector. The public part of EdoMex's health sector has five
health-care provider networks. Federal social security covers most workers in the formal private
sector, and federal workers in the state are covered by the Federal Workers Social Security
Institute. The EdoMex social security system (ISSEMyM, under the state Secretary of
Administration) covers state and municipal workers. The EdoMex Institute of Health (under the
Secretary of Health) covers most of the uninsured (open population), which are about half of
total population, and the Family Integrated Services of EdoMex (under co-administration by
6



municipalities) provides an outreach program for poor families, which includes health care. The
per capita resources and the average quality and effective accessibility of services vary widely
among the networks. The hospitals and clinics of the Institute of Health are often overcrowded,
while ISSEMyM's health system has considerable under-used capacity and outspends its income,
using money from the pension fund to make up the difference. To summarize the key problems:
(a) the state's spending in health is fragmented among agencies that do not coordinate with each
other, (b) is inefficiently and inequitably allocated, and (c) particularly in the social security part,
lacks a hard budget constraint.
20.   PENSIONS. The pension part of the state's social security (ISSEMyM) is effectively an
off-budget component of the compensation to state workers. Currently, employees of EdoMex
and its municipalities contribute to ISSEMyM, which provides them pensions, health services,
and other social services, with the contribution based only on the base salary, roughly 43 percent
of total remuneration. Financially, it is a contingent liability that would surely fall on the general
budget if, or when, the pension fund runs out of money to make the expected payouts, which
would occur in six years' time under current rules. The financial weakness of the system has
four main causes: First, the under-funded health-care part of social security has been siphoning
money from the retirement fund, as noted above. Second, the retirement age of 50 for all
workers who began employment before 1984 means that a large contingent will soon retire,
creating a growing imbalance between retirees and contributors. Third, the contribution rate of
11 percent of salary is too low relative to the benefits, which are equal to 100 percent of the
reference salary. And, fourth, the reference period for defining benefits is only the last six
months before retirement, which gives managers an incentive to give out last-minute raises, the
main cost of which comes not out of their own budget, but out of the pension fund. Moreover,
for all of the system's financial vulnerability, state pensions remain inadequate to meet the
retirees' needs because both the contributions and benefits relate only to the employees' base
salary, which is less than half of the total compensation package. The EdoMex pension system,
like the others in Mexico, offers no portability of benefits, thus making employees increasingly
captive in their jobs after they have been there several years and see retirement approaching.
21.   WATER. The national water sector in Mexico is financially unbalanced and subject to
inefficient incentives. While states are part of the sector, they have limited control over its local
performance.  EdoMex's State Water Commission (CAEM) is a financial and physical
intermediary between the Federal Water Commission (CNA), which owns all water rights and
sells bulk water, and the multitude of municipal operators, which deliver the water to customers
and collect the revenue from them. In a number of small municipalities that do not have their
own operator organization, CAEM also is the real retail provider. The prices between each level
do not usually reflect economic costs and are not consistent for water from the same source or
going to the same area of users. More critically, payment is rarely enforced, either by CNA over
CAEM (or other state-level bulk purchasers), by CAEM over municipal operators, or by these
operators over final consumers. This creates myriad distortions and large nominal liabilities
without a clear prospect of repayment. Laws and administrative decisions demanding adequate
water charges have not provided sufficient incentives to overcome a long-standing tradition of
non-enforcement, which is nurtured by the federal level and emulated by many Mexican states
and municipal operators. Beyond the technical difficulty of supplying water to 20 million people
(including the D.F.) in an often arid environment at almost 3,000 meters altitude, EdoMex's
physical water system suffers from leakage of over 50 percent in some places, and manry
7



municipalities lack water meters and charge at most only an annual hook-up fee. Although the
water sector is largely off-budget, CAEM gets sizable cash subsidies from the state treasury and
has large liabilities toward CNA. Although CNA itself appears reluctant to collect from its
debtors, CAEM's debts are in principle contingent liabilities of the state and will affect its credit
rating, which is now important in the new environment.
22.   TRANSPORT-ROADS. Roads and urban rail transit are the most important infrastructure
areas for which the state government has responsibility. A series of Mexico City metropolitan-
area agreements between the state, the D.F., and the Federal Government has taken care of the
urban transit issues relatively well. But with the largest network of roads among Mexican states,
EdoMex roads remain problematic. Deficiencies start with the absence of a medium-term plan
for maintenance, rehabilitation, and new construction. There is no highway inventory that is
usable for planning. The neglect of routine and relatively low-cost maintenance-which has no
line item in the budget-is allowing the roads to deteriorate to the point of an impending crisis,
which would require massive and costly rehabilitation and reconstruction. Toll road concessions
have been poorly managed and remain financially troubled, making it all but impossible to
arrange new deals that are needed to meet growing traffic demands.
23.   FINANCIAL ADMrNISTRATON AND BuDGETfNG.  Current budgeting and financial
management practices in EdoMex have many shortcomings. The income side of the budget
regularly includes extraordinary transfers from the Federal Government, even when they have
not been approved by the Federal Government and, in contrast to the decades before 1997, are
unlikely to materialize. This makes the budgets under-funded from the start. On the other hand,
the expenditure side is organized by agency rather than by function and program, which makes it
difficult to assess whether resources are allocated in accord with democratic priorities and to
monitor whether the spending achieves the expected results. Although budget equilibrium is
technically required, growing overdue debt with suppliers and contractors (which comprise most
of the so-called ADEFAS) is rolled over in such a way that the budget appears to be formally
balanced when in fact it is not. The administration and execution of the budget focuses on filling
funding gaps in order to meet wage and debt-service obligations, which discourages transparency
and further reduces accountability for public service results. Finally, the state does not have a
medium-term plan for financing and debt management.
III. THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM OF THE EDOMEX GOVERNMENT
24.   The EdoMex Government is well aware of the weaknesses in the state's fiscal position,
the shortcomings in its sectoral and financial management, and their negative effects on long-
term growth and poverty reduction. The authorities therefore seek to design and implement, with
support from the Federal Government and the World Bank, a comprehensive structural reform
agenda that would put the state's fiscal accounts on a sustainable path while enhancing and
protecting its provision of social services. This section summarizes the rationale behind the
various policies in that agenda and compares the projected evolution of EdoMex's fiscal
accounts under the reform and no-reform scenarios.
25.   At the outset, one should remember that the state authorities operate under three critical
policy constraints which are likely to remain in the short- and medium-term, and which are--
8



embedded in the constitutional and legal framework for federal-state relationships in Mexico.
First, while states now have incentives to seek the reform of the tax and transfer system in order
to recover tax powers, reaching the necessary national political agreement will take time because
the new arrangement will implicitly define the kind of federal country Mexico wants to be.
Second, the sectoral policies at the federal level in water (for example, CNA's subsidization of
bulk water), education (for example, unionized wage-setting for federal-system teachers), and
pensions (for example, delegation of liabilities to the states) are unlikely to change in the
immediate future, and may continue to impose distortions and/or costs on the corresponding
sectoral policies at the state level. In response, the EdoMex authorities have rightly taken a
conservative position: their adjustment program is calibrated to bring sustainability to the state's
fiscal accounts, without assuming any relaxation of the federally based constraints. Third, the
policy distortions that have led to EdoMex's current fiscal problems are many and entrenched.
Removing them all will require time and substantial enhancement of the state's institutional
capacity. Thus, the reform program described below focuses on the initial structural policy
actions needed to achieve fiscal and financial stability. A forthcoming technical assistance
project would support the requisite institutional development, and in some cases sectoral projects
would follow on, such as in water, transport, and the social sectors.
(A) The Program's Policies
26.   The policy initiatives that make up EdoMcx's reform program are described in the Letter
of Development Policy and attached matrix of the EdoMex Government, addressed to the federal
Secretary of Finance and attached to his Letter to the Bank (Annex D). While the Bank will
support all of these reforms, e.g. with technical advice, certain key commitments will be
explicitly required for the disbursement of tranches to Banobras, as elaborated below. At the
center of EdoMex's program is the virtual elimination, within two years, of the state's fiscal
deficit-from a projected 2.2 percent of ordinary revenue in 2000,10 it is to fall to 0.5 in 2001
and to become a surplus in 2002 and thereafter. That will prevent and reverse an otherwise
unsustainable debt and debt-service accumulation and will be achieved in a manner that protects
social sector expenditures and objectives. To deliver that outcome, a combination of policies
will enhance revenues and rationalize spending-moving it toward higher and more efficient
social expenditures and shifting it away from unwarranted subsidies for infrastructure. The
initial reforms also include key measures to strengthen financial management, especially of the
budget and debt. These will strengthen the oversight and control by the state Congress, measures
that will set precedents and that the opposition-controlled Congress is likely to endorse and
maintain.
27.   REVENUES.  First, state taxes and fees will be increased, and their administration
strengthened. The base of the payroll tax will be expanded to include all remuneration, all firms,
and all employees, and its rate will be raised by 0.5 percentage points, to 2.5 percent.
Registration fees for older cars will be set at the same level as in the neighboring D.F. The
government will publish and implement a plan for improving tax administration, by shifting
resources from collection to enforcement and by using data from federal administration of taxes
10. "Ordinary" income is defined as current plus capital income minus "extraordinary transfers" from the
federation. Ordinary transfers are those that the federal Congress allocates state by state or according to--
formulas. All other transfers are considered "extraordinary".
9



and the social security system. Over four years, these changes are projected to bring EdoMex's
own revenue collections up to a similar share of state GDP as in Hidalgo and Morelos, the
Mexican states with the highest efficiency of collection after the D.F. In two years the state will
have more than doubled its own tax collection as a share of programmable expenditures. This
and the administrative reforms will help lay the foundation of attitudes and institutions needed
for an eventual reform of the federal fiscal pact.
28.   Second, capital revenues will be enhanced through better asset management.  The
Mexican states do not own major firms-power companies, phone companies, or banks, as in
Argentina and Brazil. Still, EdoMex has ranches, hotels, and other properties that could be
commercialized to improve growth opportunities for the private sector and to obtain badly
needed revenue, either by sales, leases, or concessions. A five-year plan for disposing of the
properties susceptible to commercialization will be launched. The plan will have a published
target of commercializing, each year, a fifth of the total initial estimated market value of the
assets, and annual progress reports will be sent to Congress to ensure adequate accountability.
This practice, in itself, will represent a major break-through relative to past practice among
Mexican states.
29.   EDUCATION. Reform of this large and complex sector will start with measures to control
its overall dimensions-real outlays and teacher recruitment-and will take initial steps to
rationalize its organization and increase accountability for performance and efficiency. First, to
protect this critical sector during the adjustment process, the education budget, in real per-student
terms, will not be reduced from its 2000 level. Second, to end the traditional practice of letting
the supply of normal-school graduates drive the personnel process, the state will set specific
teacher recruitment targets (and limits) based on the number of students (demand for education)
and will achieve a more even distribution of student/teacher ratios across rural and urban schools
and across educational levels. These policies will follow the national standards, which are
already in place in most states, but not EdoMex. They will provide a systemnatic basis to assure
that schools in high poverty areas get at least the standard allocation of teachers per student. The
new practice of publishing the territorial allocation of education spending, by municipality, will
generate complementary pressures for equal treatment. The Inter-Secretarial Finance Committee
will also issue a formal instruction to put the state and (formerly) federal schools under a single,
unified personnel management system, which will address another area where EdoMex lags
behind most other states Third, the 2001 budget law will specify performance and impact
indicators for the public education system, and will grant the Secretaria de Educacion authority
in the management of its budget, so that the agency can be held accountable to achieve the
expected results. The Government will propose a law to make these innovations permanent.
While more detailed education reforms will need to follow in EdoMex and across the nation,
with direct involvement from the Federal Government, it will have been critical to accelerate
reforms in the nation's largest state, which as of now lags well behind best practice in the
country.
30.   HEALTH. The structural adjustment phase of EdoMex's reforms for the health sector will
enforce hard budget constraints more equally in the different parts of the state system and will set
up institutions for increased coordination between them. First, for the State Institute of Health
(ISEM) the budget allocation will be increased by at least 2 percent in real terms in each of 2001
and 2002. This part of the system covers the uninsured population (where the concentration of
10



poverty is highest) has been the most budget-constrained in the past, and therefore needs
protection during the adjustment process. Second, the ISSEMyM, which covers state and
municipal civil servants, will be prevented from using pension reserves to fund health services
and will, instead, need to raise contribution rates to recover its operational costs. This part of the
health sector has been the least budget-constrained until now. Thus, part of the adjustment
process is to give it a harder budget constraint and to make its spending subject to the budget
process (the state budget will have to pay the increased contributions) and not to allow it to
continue expanding with the hidden cost of increasing the implicit pension debt. Third, both
health-care networks will implement their plans for cost recovery and higher use. While these
measures may have a small initial budget impact, they should help improve incentives and
accountability. Fourth, the two networks will carry out a program to optimize the use of their
combined capacity (for example, by selling services to each other and to the private sector). In
addition the health part of the Integrated Family Development Program (DIF) will be brought
under the purview of the ISEM, to realize economies of scale and to prevent marginalization of
the DIF, whose program target the poor.
31.   PENSIONS. The pension reform strategy has four components, three for the traditional
pension system and one to bring in a totally new element that creates a bridge to the recently
reformed national system for the private sector. First, to move the regular state employee system
toward long-term sustainability, the Government will implement a combination of reducing
benefits, increasing the retirement age, and ending transfers to health-measures calculated to
bring down the implicit pension debt by at least 20 percent. Second, the Government will issue
new regulations that establish transparent supervision and investment of the ISSEMyM pension
reserves. Third, new regulations will make contributions into ISSEMyM portable, in the sense
that workers leaving the public sector before retirement would have a guarantee of a prorated
pension when they reach retirement age, which will enhance flexibility in the state's labor
market. Fourth, the Government will make its employees' remuneration in excess of the base
salary (not covered at all now) subject to contribution rates that will be paid into a system like
the new one for the private sector.
32.  In 1996, the Federal Government of Mexico enacted a far-reaching reform of the public
pension system for private sector workers, which transferred all workers immediately to a fully
funded defined contribution system (AFORE), from the previous bankrupt pay-as-you-go
(PAYG) system. Important components of Mexican society, however, including federal civil
servants and state and municipal civil servants, were not included in this reform and have
retained their separate PAYG systems, all actuarially unbalanced, but to varying degrees. The
long-term goal of any pension strategy in Mexico would be to move these excluded groups into
the national system, the AFORE system, with the twin objectives of improving long term
actuarial balance and promoting an integrated labor market. While no pension strategy is
perfect, the current AFORE system is considered best practice internationally.
33.   The fourth component of EdoMex's pension strategy makes substantial movement
toward this goal, while working within the bounds of what is politically and financially feasible.
A complete shift toward the AFORE system, which implies the elimination of ISSEMyM, is not
a politically viable option at this juncture, and may not be optimal in any case. Instead, the
reform program  would institute mandatory contributions on the non-salary part of the
remuneration, over half of the total, with these funds going to the AFORE system, and would-_
11



downsize the traditional ISSEMyM over the medium term, in order not to violate legally
acquired rights. Although the proposed downsizing of ISSEMyM would not achieve full
actuarial balance, introduction of the mandatory AFORE component will provide an additional
source for pension income, which will allow further downsizing of the existing ISSEMyM
benefits and, perhaps more important, break the monopoly of ISSEMyM in providing benefits to
public sector employees. This latter impact is critical to make further private sector involvement
in either pensions or health provision to the public sector employees politically viable. Finally,
the mandatory AFORE system also creates some portability of pensions to the private sector,
where workers also have the AFORE accounts.
34.   Adding the AFORE accounts would not require the massive transition costs involved
with converting a PAYG system to a funded system. The only costs are the mandatory employer
contributions to the AFORE system, but ISSEMyM was planning anyway on raising pension
contributions (paid by the government), so this expected increase is now being diverted to the
AFOREs, partially offsetting the new costs. In the future, a fuller conversion could still take
place, but this would be done in the context of a downsized ISSEMyM, which would lower these
future transition costs. In the long run, it may be desirable to envisage a system where the public
sector employees are fully integrated within the AFORE system, but where an ISSEMyM
continues to provide a smaller occupational supplemental pension. Backloading part of the
remuneration for public sector employees through pensions is sometimes considered a way of
reducing corruption, since a corrupt official would face larger losses if discovered and dismissed
without pension.
35.   WATER. In water, reforms are needed from the Federal level on down, but the State of
Mexico, where the water problem is biggest, needs to put some internal reforms in place, to
protect the regular budget from problems in the water sector and to prepare the state to respond
appropriately to federal reforms when they come. The strategy thus has three prongs. First, the
state budget will end operating subsidies to CAEM. Second, the budget bill will moderately
increase the rates that CAEM  charges to municipalities.  While further increases will be
necessary when federal policy enforces the collection of water extraction charges, increases now
of CAEM rates will let it cover operating costs. Third, new regulations will establish incentives
to ensure that municipal operators pay CAEM for their water purchases. When municipalities
renew their agreements with CAEM, as they must do beginning next year, they will have to
delegate to the state the right to deduct any overdue payments to CAEM from one of the federal
transfers that goes to municipalities. In addition, CAEM will begin charging the state or the
municipal water utilities for the services it provides. This will allow for the immediate
elimination of transfers from the state Treasury to cover CAEM's operating cost, and allow a
major reduction in support for CAEM's investment and technical assistance activities. These
reforms will be complemented by the establishment of a State Water Supply and Sanitation
Agency to regulate the market and enforce rules for transparency and private sector participation.
36.   ROADS. To prevent unmaintained highways from becoming a deteriorating asset whose
rapid decline in use-value would lead to significant future outlays, the state will allocate at least
70 percent of road-related expenditures to maintenance. Given the overall budget constraints,
this will mean reducing capital outlays for new road building. In parallel, an inventory of
existing highway concessions will be published, as well as a plan to expand the participation of
private operators in both maintenance and concessions, especially on a road-network basis.
12



While the reform program has not yet defined the details of road planning, maintenance, and
private participation, the importance of these measures for the structural adjustment process is to
establish procedures of transparency and accountability, whose rationality and success can be
judged by Congress and the voters.
37.   MANAGEMENT OF BUDGETING AND DEBT.  EdoMex's Government will overhaul its
budgeting and financial administration tools. First, the state will also impose a hard budget
constraint on its own accounts. The budgets it will submit to its Congress will no longer assume
extraordinary transfers from the Federal Government. Financing by arrears will no longer be
allowed, as described below. Second, a package of measures will increase accountability of the
executive to Congress. The budget will have a high and increasing share presented according to
programs, with allocations specified in the budget law. That law will also require the quarterly
publication of detailed reports on the execution of the budget (comparing it with the approved
budget); amendments to the Organic Budget Law will make more permanent the practice of
program-based and, eventually, performance-based, budgeting. The State will publish the
quarterly reports within 90 days of the end of each quarter, not only submitting them to Congress
but also posting them on the internet, which will be important for increasing public awareness
and governmrent accountability. Third, the state will eliminate the capacity of the executive to
make discretionary (that is, not explicitly identified in the budget) transfers to municipalities.
This will change the nature of the relationship between the states and the municipalities, and will
impose a hard budget constraint on the latter. As a counterpart to that constraint, the state will
begin to publish the distribution of its sectoral expenditures (education, transport, and so forth)
municipality by municipality and will offer technical assistance for institutional upgrading at the
municipal level.
38.   Revenue, expenditure, and budgeting reforms will be complemented by a stronger
framework for debt management. The state Executive's borrowing powers will be put more
tightly under the control of the state Congress by setting specific net borrowing ceilings in the
yearly budget (rather than limiting new debt accumulation only in relation to realized revenues,
as now). The program will control and reduce floating debt, which is the most expensive kind of
debt and the fastest growing, especially in the last year since the Federal Government tightened
the rules for regular borrowing from banks. The Executive will give Congress quarterly reports
on the floating debt, as well as other debt. During 2001 and 2002, the State will be reducing its
floating debt by 40 percent per year from the end-2000 level. The quarterly reports to Congress,
also to be posted on the internet, will tell the value of accounts overdue in various time
categories, such as 30-90 days, 90-180 days, and over 180 days. This will involve upgrading
the State's information system on accounts payable and lay the foundation of technical capacity
and political interest for systematically improving the promptness of payments. It will close a
serious loophole for unsupervised indebtedness and will reduce the state's effective financing
costs, because these supplier credits carry high hidden charges, like inflated procurement
prices. I I
11. International experience shows that when the government has a reliable and timely payment system, it
eliminates bureaucratic discretion and possible corruption in deciding which supplier to pay first and opens
opportunities for a wider array of suppliers, including small firms that could not give credit with long and.
uncertain terms in exchange for a higher price.
13



(B) The Program's Outcomes
39.   The reform program described above brings socially sustainable balance to the state's
fiscal accounts. Each of the proposed measures carries important fiscal implications. These are
singled out in the projections, through 2005, shown in Table 1.12 Their main message is that a
combi'xation of current and capital revenue efforts, rationalization of teacher recruitment, and the
elimination of water-related subsidies, can bring about both a substantial increase in social
expenditures (notably in health) and the disappearance of overall deficits. Alternatively, if no
reform 'were to be implemented, the state's finances would continuously sink into deeper, and
probalby explosive, deficits. (See Figures 1 and 2.)
40.   As a result of the reform package, the state's relative debt position will turn around-
instead, of entering into a rapidly deteriorating, unsustainable spiral, EdoMex's debt-to-ordinary-
income ratio improves continually and stabilizes at about 60 percent (Figure 2).
IV. TIRE PROPOSED EDOMEX STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (EMSAL)
(A) Objectives
41.   The proposed EMSAL will be the instrument through which the World Bank will support
the Gofvernmrent of Mexico's effort to deliver technical and financial support to the EdoMex
Goverrment's structural adjustment. The proceeds of the loan will enable BANOBRAS to
reduce the state's borrowing costs and lengthen its debt maturity during the reform transition.
42.   The objectives of the loan go beyond EdoMex. For the Federal Government's new
decentralization policy to work in the long term, a critical mass of states needs to be fuilly solvent
and striving successfully to improve their creditworthiness within the more rigorous regulatory
framework established in December 1999. If the largest state with the largest fiscal problems
(EdoMex) were to lose hope under the weight of a debt overhang and sought to subvert that
framework, it could seriously weaken the system and perhaps render it politically unsustainable.
This is one of the key lessons from the longer history of successes and failures with sub-national
fiscal reform efforts in Argentina and Brazil. So this loan carries a nation-wide externality-to
make EdoMex a positive example to show the rest of the Mexican states that structural
adjustment is feasible and rewarding.
12. The projections have been discussed extensively with the experts in the state Secretary of Finance, and in
releTant spending Secretariats.
14



Table 1. Mexico-Estado de Mkxico
Fiscal Balance, 1999-2005 (current million pesos, unless otherwise indicated) Scenario
with Reforms
1999      2000      2001       2002      2003       2004      2005
CURRENT REVENUE                                                     31,524.1   40,705.0  47,155.8  52,164.0  55,612.0  59,855.9  64,368.6
STATE REvENuE                                                     2,770.3   3,467.1   4,745.2   5,554.2    6,336.2    7,011.1    7,698.7
State Taxes                                                     1,139.4   1,442.7   2,240.5   2,806.5   3,245.9    3,617.4   4,022.4
Due to reform to payroll tax l                                                      492.3     791.3      984.3    1,099.0    1,224.0
Due to reform to state tenencia 2                                                    48.4      82.5      102.6     112.5      123.5
Due to reform to lottery tax 3                                                        9.8      10.3       10.8       11.3      11.9
Fees                                                             646.7      792.6     935.3      950.5    1,012.8    1,079.9    1,152.1
Revenue administration federal taxes                             984.1    1,231.8   1,569.3    1,797.2    2,077.5   2,313.9   2,524.2
Due to improvemnents in federal tenencia collection 4                                42.4     156.9      241.1     264.5      290.2
Due to enforcement (fiscalizaci6n) 5                                                 10.4      82.2      133.2     187.4      198.3
TRANSFERS                                                        28,753.8  37,237.9  42,410.6  46,609.8  49,275.8  52,844.7  56,669.9
Participaciones Federales                                      14,675.4  19,050.4  22,003.2  24,455.4   25,850.0  27,947.5  30,215.2
Aportaciones Federales (Ramo 33)                               14,078.5   18,187.5  20,407.4  22,154.4  23,425.8  24,897.2  26,454.7
CURRENT EXPENDITURES                                                31,068.8  38,332.9  43,579.8  47,358.9  50,741.7  53,777.0  58,037.4
PROGRAMMABLE EXPENDITURES                                        23,347.3  28,296.6   32,559.9  35,303.8  38,145.4  40,296.2  43,655.2
O/w Education                                               15,311.5   18,984.9  21,656.4  23,380.4  24,762.8  26,215.3  27,739.3
Due to better management of education expenditure 6              0.0       0.0   (212.9)   (926.8)  (1,720.6)  (2,610.8)  (2,814.3)
Due to lower transfers to CAEM 7                                                  (392.5)   (432.9)   (468.1)   (505.7)   (546.0)
Increase in wages quota due to ISSEMyM  reform 8                                    440.2     536.0      643.8     775.4      935.6
NONPROGRAMMABLE EXPENDITURES                                      7,721.6   10,036.3   11,019.9  12,055.1   12,596.3   13,480.8   14,382.2
Participaciones and municipalities fuinds                       6,132.5   7,657.3    8,686.3    9,700.6   10,253.8  11,085.8   11,985.3
Interest                                                        1,589.1    2,379.1    2,333.6   2,354.6    2,342.6    2,395.0   2,396.9
Saving from lower interest rates of comm. banks 9                                  (17.1)    (19.2)     (20.9)    (30.3)    (36.0)
CURRENT BALANCE                                                       455.3   2,372.1    3,575.9   4,805.1    4,870.2   6,078.9   6,331.2
CAPITAL REVENUE                                                       687.6      205.5     406.7      444.4      458.0     472.0      486.5
Due to better asset management 1                                                   200.0     209.1      213.2     217.3      221.6
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                                                 1,926.1   2,967.6   4,133.0   4,784.4    5,236.1    5,628.9    6,068.7
Due to water sanitation transfers 1                              0.0       0.0      151.5     169.5      185.9     204.0      223.8
Due to higher maintenance of highways 12                                            502.9     522.7      532.9     543.4      554.0
CAPITAL BALANCE                                                     (1,238.5)  (2,762.1)  (3,726.3)  (4,339.9)  (4,778.1)  (5,156.9)  (5,582.2)
OVERALL BALANCE                                                      (7832)    (390.1)   (150.4)      465.2       92.1     922.0      749.0
FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS
GROSS BoRRowiNG                                                   1,582.9    2,123.1    3,612.5   3,229.6   2,144.0   1,775.2   2,827.7
Proceeds from World Bank loan                                                     3,017.6   2,298.9
REPAYMENTS                                                          799.6    1,733.0   3,462.2   3,694.8   2,236.1    2,697.2    3,576.7
Due to ADEFAS reduction 13                                                        1,789.2    1,789.2       0.0       0.0        0.0
Memo Items
Estado de Mexico total debt stock (including ADEFAS) 14    24,923.7   27,065.8  28,926.9  30,110.2  31,583.8  31,805.5  32,215.5
Total debt/ordinary income (percent)                                 77.4      66.2       60.8       57.2      56.3       52.7      49.7
Overall balance/ordinary income (percent)                            -2.4       -1.0      -0.3        0.9       0.2        1.5        1.2
Total saving on interest due to reforms                               0.0        0.0     289.2      540.3     651.3    1,144.5    1,772.0
Notes:
1. Reforms to payroll tax consist of increasing the tax rate from 2 to 2.5 percent in 2001, eliminating exemptions, and reducing
past-due payments over the next four years, which are projected to increase payroll tax revenues by approximately 20 percent.
Broadening the fiscal base will increase collection by 50 percent for the same period.
Notes continue on the next page
15



Notes: (continued)
2. Reforms to State Tenencia consist of increasing the rate on old vehicles to MxP 300 in 2002, enforcement of
past-due payments (estimated to increase collection by 20 percent for the next four years), and increasing
coverage (estimated to increase revenues by 32 percent from 2001 to 2004).
3. Reforms to lottery tax include the elimination of exemptions to schools, political parties, and religious
organizations over the next four years.
4. The enhancements to federal Tenencia collection include a reduction in past-due tax payments through better
administrative operation and a broader tax base.
5. Tax collection will be increased through administrative changes that reallocate presonnel to enforcement and
allow EdoMex to participate in the fiscal review and audit of larger firms by the Federal Government, starting
in 2002.
6. Reforms in the education sector will improve budget planning and determine teacher recruitment according to the
number of students, not the number of normal-school graduates.
7. To promote payment of overdue balances from municipalities to CAEM, the State will automatically withhold
from the municipalities federally allocated transfers (Ramo 33) in case they have past-due balances with
CAEM. In 2001 transfers from the State to CAEM will be cut by half, and then there will be no transfers.
8. Pension system reforms consist of an increase in the health services contribution to eliminate the existing
ISSEMyM deficit in health, which immediately requires higher paymnents from the State.
9. A 50-basis-point reduction in the commercial banks intermediation margin on newly contracted debt is expected
due to the improvements in the State's fiscal position generated by the proposed reforms.
10. Commercialization of public assets, and their better management, is estimated to increase capital revenues by
US$20 million per year.
11. Transfers from EdoMex to pay concessionaires for water and sanitation services.
12. Increased highway maintenance expenditures are estimated at US$50 million per year.
13. This reform includes the regularization of the State's floating debt (ADEFAS plus Cuentas por pagar).
14. Debt stock increases due to both overall deficits and revaulation of inflation-indexed UDI debt.
16



Figure 1. Mexico-Estado de Mexico: Overall Balance to Ordinary Revenue Ratio-
Alternative Reform Scenarios
3% 
0%
199                              02      3       45
-3% ---                                       -~ -          -
-6%
-9%
U No-Reform Scenario    E Reform Scenario
Figure 2. Mexico-Estado de Mexico: Total Debt to Ordinary Revenue Ratio-Alternative
Reform Scenarios
90%                                                        /
80% -
70%
60% -~-__
50%-l                               l_
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
-        No-Reform Scenario          -   -Reform Scenario
17



(B) Content
43.   The overall decentralization reform program of the Federal Government is laid out in the
Federal Letter of Development Policy, including the place of the EdoMex operation in that
overall strategy. The success of the operation clearly depends on the implementation of the
EdoMex authorities' own program of economic reforms, in coordination with the Federal
Government and as summarized in the table attached to the letter of development policy in
Annex D. From that program, a core subset of policy actions, listed in Table 2, has been selected
as the legally agreed actions that would trigger the disbursement of each of the three planned
tranches. The release of those tranches will be tentatively targeted for January 2001, July 2001
and January 2002, in order to capture one full budget execution and two state budget
preparations.
44.   These tranche-release commitments were selected for their centrality to the fiscal
adjustment of the state, and hence to the overall decentralization reform and macroeconomic
stability in Mexico. Other measures are undeniably important for improving the efficiency and
quality of public service and poverty reduction in EdoMex, but none of them can be sustained
unless the overall fiscal stance is brought into line. In addition, the Mexico-wide externalities of
adjustment in the largest state, and previously one of the most fiscally unbalanced, depend on the
success of the fiscal aspect of the structural adjustment.
(C) Risks
45.   This will be the Bank's first adjustment loan in Mexico based on the policy actions of a
state. Several risks are present. First, like any first adjustment loan to a country with a past
record of weak fiscal policy, there is a risk that the client will revert to the undisciplined ways of
the past. This is unlikely in EdoMex's case for two reasons. First, the new state government is
committed to change from past ways and the state is now under a "hard budget" constraint for
the first time-its commercial bank lenders face tougher lending regulations, and bail-outs by the
Federal Government, which as of December 2000 will be in the hands of a competing political
party, are no longer available. Second, since the Bank's loan will require a federal guarantee
(the loan itself is contracted with the federation's financial agent; see below), it is possible that
the central government could withdraw support from EdoMex. This is also unlikely because it is
in the federation's interest to promote fiscal discipline among states and avoid the potential
negative impact that a state-level fiscal crisis could have on the nation's macroeconomic
framework (for example, Minas Gerais in Brazil). Both the outgoing and incoming federal
administrations have emphatically endorsed the preparation of this project, and senior officials of
SHCP have participated in all important meetings of the Bank with the EdoMex authorities.
18



Table 2. Matrix of Policy Actions by the State of Mexico for Tranche Releases of EMSAL
BOARD PRESENTATION                                SECOND TRANCHE                                   THIRD TRANCHE
(expected December 2000)                         (expected by July 2001)                       (expected by January 2002)
1. The 2001 budget submitted to Congress will have a  1. The accumulated overall deficit in the 2001 budget  1. The accumulated overall deficit in the 2001 budget
deficit in the overall balance of no more than 0.5  as executed through the end of the most recent quarter2  as executed through the end of the most recent quarter
percent of ordinary income.'                    will be no more than 0.5 percent of the ordinary  will be no more than 0.5 percent of the ordinary
2. The Government will have submitted the necessary  income of the state.                      income of the state.
legal amendments to Congress to (a) expand the base  2. The Government will have submitted to Congress a  2. The 2002 budget submitted to Congress will have a
of the payroll tax to include all remuneration, all draft bill that will: (a) reduce the implicit pension debt surplus in the overall balance of at least 0.9 percent of
firms, and all employees, based on location of of the state by at least 20 percent over its value at the  ordinary income.
employment, except for exemptions already granted  end of 2000 through, among other things, reduced
for 2000-2001 to new firms located in the state, which  benefits and increased retirement ages; (b) collect 3. The 2002 budget submitted to Congress will
will expire at the end of calendar year 2001, and (b)  contributions on the non-salary portion  of the  include: (a) real, per-student expenditure in education
increase the rate of the payroll tax to 2.5 percent.  remuneration (on a mandatory basis for new entrant not less than the comparable expenditure in the
3. The 200bdgtubmttdoongesw workers and on a voluntary basis for other workers), approved budget for 2001; and (b) teacher recruitment
3. The  2001  budget submetted  to  Congress will  with  these  contributions to  be deposited  into  targets based on pre-defined efficiency and quality
include: (a) real, per-student expenditure in educatit  individual accounts in the AFORE system; and (c)  standards.
approved budget for 2000; (b) teacher recruitment  grant workers who leave the ISSEMyM  pension  4. Contribution rates for ISSEMyM  health services
targets based upon pre-defined efficiency and quality  system the right to receive a prorated pension upon  will have been raised by at least 4 percentage points
standards;3 and (c) provisions to guarantee that the  reaching retirement age.                  from the rate in December 31, 2000 (2 percentage
monthly savings accrued in the execution of the  3. Regulations for the Water Law will have been  points each from employers and employees).
education budget by the state Secretaria de Educaci6n  issued and published in the State's Official Gazette not 5. The 2002 budget submitted to Congress will
will be retained by that Secretaria.           later than February 28, 2001, in accordance with the  increase the allocation for SSEM by at least 4 percent
4. The Government will have directed ISSEMyM to  policies in the State's LDP concerning CAEM's water  in real terms compared to the 2000 budget.
employ pension-related funds only for pension-related  supply agreements, payment collection, cost coverage, 6. The 2001 budget as executed will have included no
expenditures.                                   participate in water provision, including Contratos  transfers  to  CAEM   other  than  transfers  for
5. The 2001 budget submitted to Congress will Integrales de Administraci6n and concessions.    investments specifically  included  in  the  public
increase the budget of the Secretariat of Health of the  4i All water supply agreements among CAEM,  nvestment program of the state.
State of Mexico (SSEM) by at least 2 percent in real municipal water organizations, the State (Secretariat of 7. The budget for 2002 submitted to Congress will
termns compared to 2000 and will provide funding for  Fiac    n    lnig)    n    h     uiia   iclude: (a) no transfers to CAEM other than transfers
ISSEMyM health so that no funds for health need to  goverF nents signed since November 16, 2000 will for investmnents that will be specifically included in the
be taken from the pension fund.                 have  complied  with  the  relevant inter-agency  public investment program of the state; and (b) an
6. An Administrative Agreement between the State's  Administrative  Agreement  and  the  subsequent increase of at least 6 percent in real water rates
Secretaries of Finance and Planning and of Urban  regulation.                                   charged by CAEM relative to the rates in effect m
Development and Public Works and the CAEM                                                       October 31, 2000.
(Comisi6n de Agua el Estado de M&xico) concerning      debt by at least 20 percent relative to the stock  8. The Government will have reduced the stock of
19



CAEM's payment collection will have been signed and  existing on December 31, 2000.                floating debt by at least 40 percent relative to the
become effective with the content specified in the  6. The Government will have submitted to Congress  stock existing on December 31, 2000.
State's LDP                                       6.Th Goermet wllhae sbmtte t Cngrsses .  (a) a draft bill (Proyecto de Ley de Planeaci6n) to  9. The budget for 2002 submitted to Congress will
7. The 2001 budget submitted to Congress will  establish, inter alia, the  procedures  governing  have an explicit nominal net borrowing ceiling not
include: (a) no transfers to CAEM other than transfers  integrated  financial  management  and   sector  higher than 80 percent of the stock of floating debt on
for investments that will be specifically included in the  performance indicators applicable to the State Budget  December 31, 2000, minus the reduction of floating
public investment program of the state; and (b) an  and (b) a draft bill to amend the Fiscal Law (C6digo  debt that took place in the execution of the 2001
increase of at least 3 percent in real terms in the water  Financiero del Estado de Mexico y Municipios)  budget.
rates charged by CAEM, relative to the rates in effect  requiring, inter alia, that any intra-year reforms to the
in October 2000.                                  State Budget must preserve the same Overall Balance
8. he 001budet ubmtte toConres wil hveas in the budget initially approved by the state
8. The 2001 budget submitted to Congress will have  legislature for the corresponding year and that future
aono explicthanomin  net rrowingreiing ,eqat  State Budgets be prepared, presented, and executed
to no more than 5 percent of ordinary' income (to according to program budgeting procedures.
finance the overall deficit and to settle the floating
debt5) and a requirement for the government to report  7. The Government will have presented to Congress
quarterly to Congress the amount and terms of all debt and posted on the internet quarterly reports, through
outstanding, including floating debt.            the end of the most recent quarter, detailing (a) the
9.  he  001budet  ubittd t  Cogres wllexecution  budget  (compared  with  the  budget
9. The 2001 budget submitted to Congress will  approved) and (b) the amount and terms of all
provide for reduction of the stock of floating debt,  ap d)   d(bt       amount   aterm  ofbal
relative to that existing on December 31, 2000, by at  categorized by the time outstanding for accounts
least 40 percent by December 31, 2001.           payable).
Notes:
Unless otherwise specified, in this table "the state" and "the government" refer to the executive branch of the State of Mexico, "Congress" refers to that of
the State of Mexico, and "the budget" refers to the budget of the state.
1. "Ordinary" income is defined as current plus capital income minus "extraordinary transfers" from the federation (ordinary transfers are those that the Federal
Congress allocates by state or by formulas; all other transfers are considered "extraordinary"). The overall balance is the difference between ordinary income
and all expenditures (including loans and transfers to other public or private entities).
2. "Quarter" refers to calendar quarters: January-March, April-June, July-September, and October-December.
3. The standards will include, among other things, (a) teacher recruitment rates that do not reduce the average student-to-teacher ratio at each level of schooling
(basic, secondary, technical, higher education) below present ratio; (b) no teacher recruitment (of either new or transferring teachers) in schools whose
student-to-teacher ratio is already higher than the federal standard; and (c) adoption by the Secretary of Education of a teacher certification test for all newly
recruited teachers
4. Net borrowing refers any new issuance of debt and obligations minus amortization of principal.
5. Floating debt is defined as the sum of ADEFAS and Accounts Payable (Cuentas por pagar), as defined by the Treasury Department.
20



46.   Third, the state Congress, currently controlled by a party in opposition, could block one
or several of the policy initiatives embedded in the adjustment program. This risk is real, but is
substantially mitigated because the bulk of the reforms will put more discipline and
accountability on the Executive (for example, by eliminating its powers to effect discretionary
transfers to municipalities; and by subjecting the Executive to various, previously absent
reporting requirements), something that serves well the Congressional interests. Fourth, the
federal context in which many of the proposed sectoral reforms are cast (for example, taxes,
education, pensions, water) could change during the life span of the EMSAL, rendering agreed
policy commitments inapplicable. Such changes would probably improve, rather than debilitate,
the reform-scenario fiscal outlook in EdoMex, so would not present obstacles to completion of
the loan commitments. Finally, there is a substantial risk that the reform program could prove
too formidable a task for the implementation capacity of EdoMex's Government. To mitigate
this risk, Bank staff are preparing a proposed Decentralization Technical Assistance Project,
which will be sent to the Board later this fiscal year.
47.   In spite of the above-mentioned mitigating factors, the EMSAL remains a high-risk,
high-return operation. It will thus be essential to maintain a close working relationship with the
client, and to provide ample and on-going assistance during implementation. A schedule of
monthly project supervisions will be maintained, greatly facilitated by the resident presence in
Mexico City of the Bank's Mexico Country Team.
(D) Poverty Impact
48.   The proposed EMSAL will contribute to poverty reduction at both the national and state
levels. It helps protect the macroeconomic framework of the country as a whole by reducing the
likelihood of any fiscal crisis at the sub-national level. (World Bank analysis shows that
negative macro shocks are the single most important determinant of poverty increases in
Mexico.) Second, the various sectoral reforms that underpin the state's fiscal adjustment will
generate direct benefits to the poor. The most important poverty-related activities under the
responsibility of the Mexican states, including EdoMex, are in the education and health sectors.,
(The Federal Government handles the main direct poverty alleviation programs, some of which
are considered best practice.) In both sectors, the proposed adjustment agenda will protect real
expenditures and will seek to increase their efficiency and the equality of distribution of state
resources in different parts of the system. Some reforms aim particularly at services for the poor,
such as strengthening the Integrated Family Development program and bringing balance and
transparency to municipal finances (EdoMex's poor live disproportionately in underserved
municipalities and lack information on how their service compares with other communities).
More generally, by avoiding a major fiscal crisis in the state, the EMSAL ensures that essential
public services continue to be available to those that could not otherwise procure them by their
own means. (In contrast with the Federal Government, EdoMex's authorities have no access to a
lender of last resort-like a central bank-and a fiscal crisis would paralyze their operations).
(E) Loan Amounts, Conditions, and Arrangements
49.   The proposed (US$500 million) EMSAL in the form of a fixed spread, U.S. dollar-
denominated loan would be made to Banobras S.N.C. with a guarantee from the United Mexican-
21



States. Disbursements under the proposed loan would be made to an account ("Deposit
Account") of Banobras, S.N.C. established at the Banco de Mexico for this purpose. Under
orders from the Federal Government, Banobras would actually make the loan to EdoMex in
pesos through FOAEM, with a charge for the currency conversion, to avoid any conflict with the
constitutional prohibition against states borrowing in foreign exchange or from foreign lenders.
50.   The proposed loan would have three tranches, in order to enhance monitoring and
provide ample implementation support, as the state and Federal governments have requested.
Those tranches would tentatively be of US$200 million in early 2001, US$100 million expected
in mid 2001, and US$200 million expected in early 2002. A single loan with three tranches and
an integrated set of conditions is more appropriate in this instance than three separate loans,
because it would give the wrong signals economically and politically within Mexico if a single
state were to be the beneficiary of three successive World Bank loans.
V. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK FOR THE PROPOSED EMSAL
51.   Sound macroeconomic management consisting of (a) a conservative fiscal stance, (b)
tight and independent monetary policy, and (c) a flexible foreign exchange regime, continue to
provide the basis for a respectable rate of growth, single-digit inflation and a viable external
balance. See Annex B for a fuller discussion of the macroeconomic situation and prospects.
Economic growth for 2000 is now expected at 6.5 to 7.0 percent, still considerably above the
country's annual growth trend of 5 percent observed over the past four years. Inflation continues
its downward trend and, at an expected year-end rate of 8.8 percent for 2000, will stay well
within the annual objective set by the monetary authorities (below 10 percent). The overall
external deficit, i.e. the balance of payments current account deficit, is projected at 3.2 percent of
GDP-slightly up from 2.9 percent in 1999 and within manageable proportions. Favorable
external developments, in particular, stronger than expected growth of the U.S. economy and the
sharp increase of international oil prices since mid-1999, contributed to the growth of aggregate
demand. The real effective exchange rate, based on relative consumer prices, continued to
appreciate gradually during 2000, while unit labor costs rose more slowly, because of labor and
productivity gains and lagging real wages.
52.   The economic program of the incoming administration includes tightening of monetary
and especially fiscal policy in order to reduce aggregate demand pressures and inflation, while
minimizing external vulnerability of the economy. The fiscal tightening and an expected
slowdown of U.S. economic activity. (to 3 percent annual real growth) led to program targets of
4.0 to 4.5 percent real growth in 2001, with 6.5 percent inflation. Fiscal tightening would come
from a reduction of expenditures rather than an increase of non-oil revenues. The administration
has also managed external public debt in order to reduce short-term repayment and refinancing
needs, particularly during the political transition, and to keep large amounts of contingency
resources available. All the net external financing needs in the near term are expected to come
from the Mexican private sector.
22



VI. BANK STRATEGY
(A) The CAS and the Proposed EMSAL
53.   The EMSAL will be instrumental for the World Bank in its effort to achieve the three
objectives of the current CAS: effective public governance, growth and macroeconomic stability,
and social sustainability. An operation like the EMSAL with a sub-national government was
envisaged in the CAS. The identity of the borrowing state and the exact nature of the loan could
not be known, however, at the time of the CAS discussion by the Board of Executive Directors
on June 8, 1999, because the new federal incentive framework which would trigger state
adjustments was still at the design stage. Thus, the EMSAL was not mentioned by name in the
CAS. Instead, the CAS listed a State Decentralization Adaptive Program Loan and a State-level
Public Administration Learning and Innovation Loan; the EMSAL encompasses many of the
objectives foreseen for these projects. The Bank's strategy for assistance to Mexico in the
decentralization area has four parts: (a) helping the Federal Government to make the
decentralization process macroeconomically sustainable through the imposition of hard-budget
constraints on sub-national entities (an effort already implemented and supported by the Bank's
US$600 Decentralization Adjustment Loan of 1999) and the reform of the federal-state fiscal
pact on taxes and transfers; (b) supporting the Federal Government in its efforts to help states
undertake structural adjustment in order to adapt to the new fiscal discipline, rather than resist it;
(c) supporting further reforms at the federal level in sectors where the federal and subnational
governments share responsibilities; and (d) enhancing institutional capacity within subnational
governments through technical advice, WBI-sponsored training programs, and lending to support
federal efforts. The proposed EMSAL contributes to part b). There are strong synergies
between supporting state-level adjustment and advancing sectoral agendas at the federal level.
The reason is that states which undergo adjustment find strong incentives to see those agendas
implemented, and become powerful advocates for federal-level reforms.
54.   The EMSAL also fits within the lending and exposure limits of the CAS,"3 which
included an overall lending program for fiscal 1999-2001 of US$5.2 billion, of which US$1.9
billion would take the form of adjustment lending. So far only US$2.1 billion has been
committed, of which US$1.1 billion are in two adjustment loans (DAL and Bank Restructuring).
Within the remaining lending space, the program for fiscal 2001 of the CMU and the Latin
American and Caribbean Region foresees a total amount of new lending for Mexico of US$1.9
billion, of which US$0.9 billion will be in investment loans and US$1 billion will be in
adjustment operations (i.e., EMSAL and Bank Restructuring II). Therefore, if the fiscal 2001
program is completely delivered as planned, total new lending over the fiscal 1999-2001 would
amount to US$4 billion, of which US$2.1 billion is in adjustment operations. This would fall far
short of the CAS-envisaged US$5.2 billion for fiscal 1999-2001 (by over US$1.1 billion) and
would only slightly surpass the targeted three-year adjustment lending (by US$200 million).
55.   Bank exposure to Mexico (including guarantees) diminished substantially from US$15
billion at the end of fiscal 1995 to US$11.4 billion by the end of fiscal 1998, and stabilized over
13. Report No. R99-92 (IFC\R99-82), discussed on June 8, 1999
23



fiscal 1999-2001 at US$11.5 billion to $11.8 billion. It will increase slightly to US$12 billion
by the end of fiscal 2002, and will stabilize at that level thereafter. This remains well within the
Bank's exposure limits for a single country, currently set at a nominal level of US$13.5 billion.
(B) Complementarity with Other World Bank Operations
56.   The World Bank has been active for some time on decentralization issues in Mexico at
both the macro and the sectoral levels. The strategy of the government and the Bank has been
first to reform the regulatory and incentive environMents that federal policy set for the sub-
nationals (the DAL-supported reforms made major advances in this direction), and then to
proceed with adjustment and investment operations in individual states.
57.   At the macro level, the design of the proposed EMSAL builds directly on, and furthers
the objectives of, the DAL, as noted earlier. At the sectoral level, the Bank has helped finance
municipal infrastructure funds since 1990 through SEDESOL. For instance, to promote access
to basic services, especially in the poorest areas, the Government has mobilized the Bank's
support through two loans for municipal social infrastructure and capacity building
(Decentralization and Rural Development I and II-DRD--of US$350 million and US$500
million, respectively). "Just-in-time" technical assistance as required by the authorities has also
been part of the Bank's support (notably, through the production of the Policy Agenda for
Decentralization delivered in April 1999 and through upon-request technical advice to state
governments on, among others, water issues, education, health, and public administration). New
channels for investment lending to states are under consideration.
58.   In partnership with the Monterrey Institute of Technology, the World Bank Institute has
developed a very successful distance learning program for municipal officials. Since it started
operating in 1999 the program has been offered three times and has helped train over 3,000
municipal officials in 65 remote-learning centers in Mexico (plus eight in other countries of
Latin America). This complements well the EMSAL's (and the DAL's) objectives, because it
makes municipalities better able to manage their finances and programs in the new, market-
disciplined framework for sub-national borrowing.
(C) Complementarity With Operations by Other Institutions
59.   At the national level, the proposed EMSAL would come shortly after the completion of a
SDR 3.1 billion (US$4.2 billion), 17-month, IMF Stand-By operation which was approved in
July 1999 and succeeded in providing a solid macroeconomic underpinning for the
implementation of the new decentralization framework. Continuous coordination between the
IMF and the Bank takes place in the review of economic policy and the preparation of respective
operations.
60.   The EMSAL will also exploit strong synergies with decentralization-related operations
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The bulk of IDB's sub-national involvement
in Mexico was channeled through a hybrid loan-US$400 million in fast-disbursing funding and
US$400 million in a line of credit through Banobras.  For the fast-disbursing part, the
commitments of the first tranche (released in December 1999) corresponded to reforms of
intergovernmental fiscal relations contained in the budget laws of 1998-2000 (particularly-
24



adherence to the approved schedule of Ramo 33 transfers to states and municipalities). The
second tranche commitments (expected in Fall 2000) are primarily associated with the reform of
Banobras, especially its internal management capacity, and with the Federal Government
rationalizing the rules under which states use participaciones as collateral for their borrowing.
The regulatory framework for sub-national borrowing supported by the DAL provided such
rationalization by eliminating mandatos for SHCP implicit guarantees and replacing them with
private fideicomisos or equivalent arrangements where SHCP plays no role. The EMSAL will
further that cross-institutional synergy by making EdoMex, potentially the largest sub-national
client in Mexico, better able to profit from the IDB's facility.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
61.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D. C.
November 16, 2000
25






Annex Al
Mexico at a glance                                                            11/9/00
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                      America  middle-
Mexico  & Carib.  income       Development diamond
19"9
Popuaion, mid-year (milions)                      97.4       509      573                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)               4,400     3,840    4,900
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                 428.9    1,955    23 11
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                      1.7      1.6       1.4
Labor force (OA)                                   3.0       2.5      2.1      GNP                            Gross
per   ^    ,,r         -     primary
Most recent estimnate (tatest year available, 1993-9                           capita                    penrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  -
Urban populaton (% of total population)             74        75       76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    72        70       70
Infant mortaiity (per 1, 000 live births)           30        31       27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)          ..         8        7               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (F. of population)  83        75       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 9        12       10
Gross primary enrollment (60 of school-age population  114   113      109      -        MMexico
Male                                             116         ..         ..      - -- - -Upper-middle-income group
Female                                           113    ..M..M.__                                 _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989      1998     1999
Economic ratios*
GOP (USSbiions)                          134.5   223.0    416.1    483.7
Gross domestic investmentlGDP             26,0    22.9      24.3      23.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP         11.2    19.0      30.8      30.8                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                24.7    22.9      22.2      21.9
Gross national savings/GDP                21.7    20.3      20.5      20.5
Current account balance/GOP               -4.1    -2.8      -3.9      -29      Dometi
Interest payments/GOP                      2.5     3.5       2.2       2.1      omestic                  Investment
Total debtiGDP                            31,8    42.1      38.4      34.5     Savings   +
Total debt service/exports                72.4    32.9      20.0      25.3
Present value of debt/GDP                    ,       ..     37.3      33.5
Present value of debVexports                -.             111.1    101.9
Indebtedness
1979-89 1989-99    1998      1999  1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                               1.3      2.9     4.9       3.5       5.2      w        Mexico
GNP per capita                   -0.9      1.1      3.3      2.3       3.6      - - - - - -Upper-middle-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices         8.4    13.6    12.1       13.9       9.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998     1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                9.8     7.8       5.2       5.0    40
Industry                                  33.4    29.4      28.5      28.2    20
Manufactunng                            22.7    21.9       21.3     21.1            9\                        99
Services                                  56.7    62.9      66.3      66.8    20            V       96  97   98
Private consumption                       64.4    68.9      67.3      68.0    -40
General government consumption            10.9     8.3      10.4      10.0             -GDI          OGDP
Imports of goods and services             12.5    19.1      32.8      32.0
(average annual growth)                1979-89 1989-99      1998     1999     Growth of exports and imports I%)
Agrculture                                 1.2      1.8      3.0       0.8    40
Industry                                   0.9     3.5       6.3       3.8    30 I
Manufacturing                            1.1      4.0       7.3      4.1    20 -
Services                                   1.8     2.7       4.5       3.6    io       \
Private consumption                        1.4     2.2       5.4       4.3     0 X              91r  ,    9     9
General govemment consumption              3.1      1.7      2.2       1.0       . 0
Gross domestic investment                 -4.3     4.3      10.2       0.9   -20
Imports of goods and services             -1.1    11.9      16.5      12.8           - Exports        Olmports
Gross national product                     1.2      2.9      5.0       4.0                                            i
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
27



Annex AI
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998     1999   | Inflation (%)
Domestic pricesA
(% change)                                                                     40
Consumer prices                              ..   20.0       15.9      16.7    30
Implicit GDP deflator                      19.6    26.5      15.4      16.2    20 - -
Government finance                                                              10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             o -       l
Current revenue                                    25.8      20.4      20.7            94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                              -1.8      2.1       1.7              -GDP deflator  -C PI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..   -4.6        -1.2     -1.1
TRADE
1979    1989      1998     1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              35,171   117,460  136,391      160,000
Oil                                        ..  7,876       7,134    9,928     140,000
Agriculture                                      1,754     3,797    3,926     120,000
Manufactures                                .  24,936   106,062  122,085      100,000
Total imports (cif)                              34,766   125,373  141,975      e0,000
Consumergoods                                    3,499    11,109   12,175      40,000 }U0U.E  E* *i               R
Intermediate goods                              26,499    96,935  109,270      20.000
Capital goods                                    4,769    17,329   20,530         0
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 .      96        95       98
Import price index (1995=100)                ..      89       100       99                  1Exports         Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..    108         94       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)  1979    1989  1998  1999  Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                15,131  42,362   128,982  148,083      0
Imports of goods and services            16,704  42,426   137,801  155,465    -1
Resource balance                         -1,573     -63    -8,818   -7,382    -2
Net income                               -4,111   -8,302   -13,284  -13,099    -3
Net current transfers                      131   2,544      6,012    6,313    -4
Current account balance                  -5,553   -5,821   -16,090  -14,168      - 
Financing items (net)                     5,868   6,093    18,227   14,762    57
Changes in net reserves                   -315    -272    -2,137       -594     3 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       ..  6,376    29,032   31,829
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)        2.28E-2     2.5       9.2       9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     42,765  93,826   159,962  166,959
IBRD                                    1,731    7,821    11,514   11,027                       A 11027
IDA                                        0        0         0        0              G 24062          c:4473
I        _     _    ~~~~~~D 5663 
Total debt service                       11,591   15,559    27,990   40,194
IBRD                                     221    1,245     2,024    2,155                                    E 5093
IDA                                        0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                           26       37
Official creditors                       284      936      -805   -1,702
Private creditors                       3,798   -2,397    13,225   13,867
Foreign direct investment               1,332   3,037    11,311   11,568
Portfolio equity                           0        0      -666    3,769                      F 116641
World Bank program
Commitments                              527   2,325      2,212    1,616      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            326    1,297     1,283      844      B - IDA   D - Other mutilateral F - Private
Principal repayments                      76      677     1,257    1,323      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                250      620        26      -479    _                                       1
Interest payments                        145      567       767      832
Net transfers                            105       52      -741   -1,311
Development Economics                                                                                           11/9/00
28



Annex A2
Mexico Social Indicators
Latest single year         Same regionlincome group
Latin      Upper-
America      middle-
1970-75    198045      1993-99         & Carib.      income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year(millions)         59.1        75.5        97.4            509.2       573.1
Growth rate (% annual average)              3.1         2.2         1.7              1.6         1.4
Urban population(% of population)            62.8        69.6        74.2             74.9        75.6
Total fertility rate (births per woman)       6.5         4.2         2.8              2.7          2.4
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                       ..          ..
Urban headcount index                        ..          ..
Rural headcount index                         ..         ..
INCOME
GNP per capita(US$)                         1,480       2,180       4,400            3,840       4,900
Consumer price index (1995=100)                 0           3         219             147          132
Food price index(1995=100)                     ..          ..
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)  3.3          ..         3.6
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)  60.7        ..        58.2
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                             ..         ..         2.8              3.3         3.3
Education (% of GNP)                        3.5         3.9         4.9              3.6         5.0
Social security and welfare(% of GDP)       3.4         2.2         3.0              7.4         7.9
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                         ..        100         101              95           96
Male                                       ..          ..          ..              96           97
Female                                     ..          ..          ..              94           95
Access to improved water source
(% of population)
Total                                        62          82          83              75           78
Urban                                      70          95         91               84           87
Rural                                      49          50          62              45           54
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                      ..          64          97              93           94
DPT                                           ..         40          83              82           83
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)           ..          ..          14               8            7
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                        63          68          72              70           70
Male                                       60          64          69              67           67
Female                                     65         71           75              73           74
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)            69          47          30              31           27
Under 5 (per thousand live births)          110          74          38              38           35
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)               246         205         166             216          218
Female (per 1,000 population)             188         121          83             116          115
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)            ..          ..          ..
Births attended by skilled health staff('/)     ..         ..          ..              78           87
11/1/00
29






Annex A3
Mexico
Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan
Key Economic Indicators
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross Domestic Product      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculturea               5.5    6.1    5.5    5.2    5.0          4.5    4.4    4.4    4.3
Industrya                 27.9   28.4   28.6   28.5   28.2        27.6   27.9   28.4   28.6
Servicesa                 66.6   65.5   65.9   66.3   66.8         67.8   67.6   67.2   67.1
Total Consumption            77.5   74.8   74.2   77.8   78.1         77.8   77.8   77.5   77.2
Gross Domestic Investment     19.8   23.1   25.9   24.3   23.2        23.8   23.9   24.4   24.7
Government Investment      3.7    3.0    3.1    2.6    2.1          1.6    1.7    2.0    2.0
Private Investment        12.4   14.9   16.4   18.3   18.9         19.7   19.7   20.0   20.2
Increase in Stocks         3.7    5.2    6.3    3.3    2.2          2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
Exports (GNFS)b              30.4   32.2   30.4   30.8   30.8         31.6   32.5   32.8   33.8
Imports (GNFS)b              27.8   30.1   30.4   32.8   32.0         33.2   34.3   34.7   35.6
Gross Domestic Savings       22.5   25.2   25.8   22.2   21.9         22.2   22.2   22.5   22.8
Gross National Savingsc      19.2   22.4   23.9   20.5   20.5         20.5   20.3   20.4   20.7
Memorandum items
Gross Domestic Product    286,167 332,339 401,091 416,117 483,737   567,876 607,673 653,370 701,131
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross National Product per  3,800   3,640   3,680   3,960  4,410     5,060   5,640   6,080   6,420
Capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real Annual Growth Rates
(%, calculated from 1993
prices)
GDP at market prices      -6.2    5.2    6.8    4.9    3.5          7.0    4.5    5.0    5.0
Gross Domestic Income     -7.9    5.3    7.7    4.2    3.8          7.8    4.0    4.4    4.8
Real Annual per Capita
Growth Rates (%, calculated
from 1993 prices)
GDP at market prices      -7.8    3.4    5.0    3.2    1.8          5.3    2.8    3.3    3.3
Total Consumption        -10.0    0.1    4.2    3.2    2.2          5.8    2.3    2.2    2.6
Private Consumption      -11.1    0.5    4.7    3.7    2.6          5.9    2.2    2.0    2.3
(Continued)
31



Annex A3
Mexico
Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan
Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)d
Current revenues                 22.8   23.0   23.1   20.4   20.7       21.6   22.0   22.3   22.3
Current expenditures             19.6   19.2   19.9   18.3   18.9       18.6   18.8   18.8   18.8
Current account surplus(+)        3.2    3.8    3.1    2.1    1.7        2.1    2.5    2.7    2.8
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure               3.2    3.9    3.7    3.3    2.9        3.1    3.4    3.4    3.5
Overall Balance                   0.0    0.0   -0.7   -1.2   -1.1       -0.8   -0.4   -0.3   -0.1
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP (at current               29.1   26.5   28.3   27.9   26.0    ...    ...    ...    ...
market prices)
Growth of M2(%)                  31.7   25.3   33.9   19.7   11.8    ...    ...    ...
Private sector credit growth/     -1.5    0.9    0.4    1.8   -0.8    ...    ...    ...    ...
total credit growth (%)
Price indices (1993=100)
Merchandise export price index   108.7  110.5  109.4  102.9  106.8    113.1  114.3  115.2  117.2
Merchandise import price index  107.9  108.3  109.0  108.3  107.3    109.7  112.4  115.0  117.6
Merchandisetermsoftradeindex    100.8  102.0  100.4   95.1   99.6    103.1  101.7  100.1   99.7
Real exchange rate (LCU/US$)C    99.1   95.3  101.6   97.9  100.2       93.3   93.3   93.3   93.3
Consumer price index             35.0   34.4   20.6   15.9   16.7        7.8    7.5    5.7    4.2
(% growth rate, period average)
Consumer price index             52.0   27.7   15.7   18.6   12.3        8.0    6.0    4.5    3.5
(% growth rate, end of period)
GDP deflator                     37.9   30.7   17.7   15.4   16.2        9.0    7.0    5.0    4.0
(% growth of rate)
a. GDP components estimated at factor cost, as a % of GDP at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services".
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital.
d. Consolidated non-financial public sector
e. "LCU" denotes "local currency units". An decrease in LCU/US$ denotes appreciation.
32



Annex A4
Mexico
Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan
Balance of Payments
I.dMatei~~   tm      1W"6   1"7 :
Balance of Payments
(US$ m)
Exports (GNFS)a           89,207 106,779 121,701 128,982 148,083    179,217 197,339 214,137 236,683
Merchandise FOB        79,542  96,000 110,431 117,460 136,391    166,060 183,192 198,927 220,361
Imports (GNFS)a           81,454  99,700 121,608 137,801 155,465    188,287 208,181 226,758 249,510
Merchandise FOB        72,453  89,469 109,808 125,373 141,975    173,327 192,172 209,546 231,040
Resource balance           7,753   7,079      94  -8,818  -7,382     -9,071 -10,842 -12,621 -12,827
Net current transfers      3,960   4,531   5,247   6,012   6,313      6,326   6,644   6,977   7,327
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance    -1,577  -2,330  -7,448 -16,090 -14,168    -18,295 -22,305 -26,059 -27,809
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct  9,526   9,186  12,830  11,311  11,786    13,800  13,900  14,595  15,325
investment
Portfolio investment       -9,715   3,708   3,800   -451   3,901      3,500   3,400   3,900   4,173
Long-term loans (net)     16,344   4,442   1,440  12,420  12,165      7,797   5,776   7,390   9,097
Official               10,352  -7,681  -4,563    -805  -1,702       -76    371    247   -167
Private                 5,992  12,123   6,003  13,225  13,867     7,872   5,405   7,142   9,264
Othercapital(net,including  -17,130 -11,184   3,312  -3,990  -9,408    -133     -39    -14    141
errors and omissions)
Net use of IMF resources   12,144  -2,052  -3,439  -1,063  -3,682    -4,310       0       0       0
Change in gross reserves  -9,593  -1,768 -10,494  -2,137    -594     -2,360    -732     188   -927
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of       2.7    2.1      0.0   -2.1    -1.5        -1.6   -1.8   -1.9   -1.8
GDP at current market
prices)
Current account balance      -0.6   -0.7   -1.9   -3.9   -2.9          -3.2   -3.7    -4.0   -4.0
(% of GDP at current
market prices)
Real annual growth rates (%)
(1993 prices)
Merchandise exports      30.6   20.7    15.0    6.4    16.1        21.8    10.3     8.6   10.8
Merchandise imports      -8.7   23.5    22.7    14.2    13.2       22.1    10.9    9.0   10.3
a.  "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services".
33






Annex A5
Mexico
Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan
Key External Debt Indicators
- ' laditor       ,   "       10'  106          is
Total debt outstanding and    166,780 157,848 149,690 159,962 166,959    170,120 175,853 183,228 192,466
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a      26,466  -4,843  -3,560  11,357   8,483      3,787   5,836   7,462   9,183
Total debt service (TDS)       26,886  40,792  42,452  27,990  40,194    41,867  37,659  49,827  53,253
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
TDOIXGSb                     179.6   142.2   118.3   118.8   108.4       91.7    86.2    82.9    78.9
TDO/GDP                       58.3    47.5    37.3    38.4    34.5       30.0    28.9    28.0    27.5
TDS/XGSb                      28.9    36.7    33.5    20.8    26.1       22.6    18.5    22.5    21.8
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS             13.8    8.1      6.6    10.6    10.1       10.8    14.8    12.0    13.0
Preferred creditor/           27.4    19.5    20.9    22.2    38.7       42.0    21.1    17.4    19.1
public DS (%)C
IBRD DS/XGSb                   2.6     2.1     1.7     1.5     1.4        1.2     1.1     1.0    0.9
IBRDTDO(US$m)r              14,295  13,078  11,906  12,109  11,456     11,431  11,691  11,873  11,756
Present value             472      510     550     595     429        116       0       0       0
of guarantees (US$m)
ShareofIBRDportfolio(%)       12.0    11.5    10.5     9.3     8.7        8.3     8.2     8.1     7.9
IFC (US$m)
Loans                         550     528     495     338      402     ...      ...     ...     ...
Equity and quasi-equitye       57      65      76       78      57     ...      ...     ...     ...
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the Bank of
Intemational Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
35






Annex A6
Mexico
External Financing Requirement and Projected Sources of Financing
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
-  Calegoe             - -  - --- r00y.  ;~.    --  2001    .            02
Financing requirements:
1. Current Account Deficit                           18,295            22,305             26,059
2. External Debt Amortizationa                       51,809             46,228             57,362
a. Public and Publicly Guaranteed                 13,849              7,514             11,157
of which IMF                                     5,526                  0                  0
of which IBRD                                    1,359              1,289              1,337
b. Private                                        37,960             38,714             46,205
of which short term                             24,062             24,362             24,422
3. Change in gross reserves (-decline)                2,360               732                -188
4. Gross Financing Requirements                      72,464             69,265             83,233
(I +2+3)
Sources of Financing:
5. Private Investment Flows (Net)                    17,300             17,300             18,495
6. External Debt Contracteda                         55,164             51,965             64,738
Public and Publicly Guaranteed                     11,234              7,643             11,329
Multilateral and Bilateral Gross                   3,532              2,512              2,340
Disbursements
of which IMF                                      1,216                 0                  0
of which IBRD                                     1,647              1,664              1,520
Private Creditors                                  6,370              4,168              8,188
Private Non-Guaranteeda                            43,930             44,322             53,409
of which short term                             24,362             24,422             24,494
7. Total Sources of Financing                        72,464             69,265             83,233
(5 + 6)
Source: Bank staff estimates, SHCP.
37






Annex A7
Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan
Total Debt Flows and Stock with IBRD
(US$ million)
Actual
FY96   FY97   FY"8   FY99   FY4O           FY01   FY02   1V#3
Debt Outstanding             13,322  12,251  11,363  11,540  11,540      11,960  12,098  12,020
of which guarantees          499    539    572    424    429             116       0       0
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)    11.9   11.3      9.8     9.8    9.8         10.0     9.9    9.6
Commitments                    527    485   1,767    950   1,169          1,926   1,500   1,500
Disbursements                 1,473    943   1,024   1,309   1,339       2,072   1,551   1,276
Repayments                    1,461   1,363   1,268   1,285   1,341       1,339   1,297   1,355
Net Disbursements               12   -421    -244       24       -2        732    254       -78
Interest                       937     892    750      816    882          861     898    904
Net Transfer                   -925  -1,313    -994    -793    -885       -128   -643   -983
As per information available as of September 30, 2000.
Source: Bank staff estimates
39






Mexico                                                                                                   Annex A8
Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
Operations Portfolio
As of October 31, 2000
Original Amount in US$ Millions         Diference between expected        Last PSR
and actual disbursements a!   Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Fiscal Year          Boffower                        Purpose                             IBRD         IDA         Cancel.     Undisb,        Orig      Fms Rev'd    Dev Obj    Tmp Prog
Number of Closed ProJects. 15'
Active Project
MX-PE-7667                1992    NAFIN                       IRRIG SCTR                                          400.00         0.00        50.00         0.00         0.00        0.00       S            S
MX-PE-7667                1993    BANOBRAS                    HWY RHB & SAFETY                                    48000          0.00         0.00         0.05        0.05         0.00       S           HS
MX-PE-7723                1993    BANOBRAS                    MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                                20000          0.00        23.00       106.86      130.50        98.90       S            S
MX-PE-7725                1994    NAFIN                       PRIMARY EDUC.II                                     412.00         0.00        40.00        63.50      106.70        66.70      HS            S
MX-PE-7710                1994    BANOBRAS                    N.BORDERIENVIRONM                                   368.00         0.00       301.00        36.22      322.20        47.60       S            S
MX-PE-7712                1994    NAFIN                       ON-FARM&MINORIRRI                                   200.00         0.00        30.00        4946        81.22        49.46       S            S
MX-PE-7612                1994    BANOBRAS                    SOLID WASTE 11                                      200.00         0.00       193.06         1.48        -4.50         1.48      S            S
MX-PE-7707                1994    BANOBRAS                    WATER/SANIT 11                                      350.00         0.00        84.30        51.79       173.50        0.00      U            U
NMX-PE-34490              1995    NAFIN                       TECHNICAL EDUC/TRAINING                             265.00         0.00        30.00       120.54      157.66         13.96      S            S
MX-PE-34161               1995    NAFIN                       FINANCIAL SEC T.A. SUPPLM                            37.40         0.00         8.75         0 00        0.00         0.00       S            S
MX-PE-7702                1995    SEDESOL                     SECOND DECENTRALZTN                                 500.00         0.00        29.34         0.00        0.00         0.00       S            S
MX-PE-7689                1996    NAFIN                       BASIC HEALTH I3                                     310.00         0.00         0.00        90.70       78.90        44.60      HS           HS
MX-PE-7713                1996   NAFIN                        WATERRESOURCES MANA                                 186.50         0.00         0.00       132.59       66.51         11.91      S            S
MX-PE-7726                1997    BANCOMEXT                   AQUACULTURE                                          40.00         0.00        38.91         0.00        0.00         0.00      U            U
MX-PE-7700                1997    NAFIN                       COMMUvUNITYFORESTRY                                  15.00         000          0.00         7.81        2.70         000        S           S
MX-PE-43163               1997    BANOBRAS                    FEDERAL ROADS MODZTl                                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00      HU           U
MX-PE-7732                1997    NAFIN                       RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A                                  30.00         0.00        28.71         0.00        0.00         0.00      U            U
MX-PE-44531               1998   NAFIN                        KNOWLEDGE & INNOV                                   300.00         0.00         0.00       251.23       26.20         0.00       S            S
MX-PE-7720                1998   BANOBRAS                     HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - SAM                          700.00         0.00         0.00       350.00      350.00         0.00       S            S
MX-PE-40199               1998   NAFIN                        BASIC EDUC.DEVELOPMENT PHASE I                      115.00         0.00         0.00        68.09       29.10         0.00       S            S
MX-PE-43670               1998    BANOBRAS                    HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                              25.00         0.00         0.00        14.80       10.20         0.00       S            S
MX-PE-49895               1998   BANOBRAS                     HIGHER ED. FINANCING                                180.20         0.00         000        164.65       33.70         0.00       S            S
MX-PE-7711                1998   NAFIN                        RURALDEV.MARG.AREA                                   47.00         0.00         0.00        33.24        16.90        0.00       S            S
MX-PE-48505               1999   NAFIN                        AGRICULTURAL PRODUC7                                444.45         0.00         0.00      266.35        11.30         0.00      S            S
MX-PE-7610                1999    BANOBRAS                    FOVI RESTRUCTURING                                  505.05         0.00         0 00      462.00       282.00         0 00      U            U
MX-PE-67491               2000    NAFIN                       BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY                         505.06         0.00         0.00       150.00      144.90         0.00      HS           HS
MX-PE-66867               2000    BANOBRAS                    DECENTRALIZATION SAL                                606.07         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00      S             S
MX-PE-66938               2000    NAFIN                       GENDER (LIL)                                          3.07         0.00         0.00         3.07        0.00         0.00  
MX-PE-57530               2000    NAFIN                       RURAL DEV.MARG.AR 11                                 55.00         0.00         0.00        51.45        -0.50        0.00       S            S
Total                                                                                                            7,479.80        0.00       857.07     2,475.88     2,019.24      334.61
Active Proiect                        Closed Proiect           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                        3,645.16                          21,895.95               25,541.11
of which has been repair                      218.94                           13,974.6C               14,193.54
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                       5,902.10                            7,921.35              13,823.45
Amount sold                                              0.00                              92.34                   92.34
of which has been repaic                        0.00                              92.34                   92.34
Total Undisbursed                                     2,475.88                               0.00                2,475.8S
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfoho performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U  unsatisfactory, HU  highly unsatisfactory): see
proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Perfonnance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
41






Mexico                                                             Annex A9
Estado de Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan
Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of August 31, 2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                                   Disbursed
FY Approval    Company                                       Loan    Equity   Quasi   P-artic           Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1988/91/92/93/9f     Apascc                                        12.60      0.00      0.00     50.40        12.60      0.00      0.00     50.40
1998                 Ayvi                                          10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00        10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1990/92/96           BANAMEX                                       96.21      0.00      0.00     45.18        96.21      0.00      0.00     45.18
1997                 Banco BilbaoMXC                               70.59      0.00     30.00      0.00        70.59      0.00     30.00      0.00
1992                 Banorte-SABROZA                                3.00      0.00      0.00      0.00         3.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1995/96              Baring Mex. FMC                                0.00      0.02      0.00      0.00         0.00      0.02      0.00      0.00
1995/99              Baring Venturi                                 0.00      2.73      0.00      0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                 CIMA Mexico                                    0.00      4.80      0.00      0.00         0.00      4.80      0.00      0.00
1998                 CIMA Puebla                                    7.00      0.00      0.00      0.00         3.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
1994                 CTAPV                                          3.73      0.00      2.32      0.00         3.73      0.00      2.32      0.00
0                    Chiapas-Propalm.                               0.00      0.80      0.00      0.00         0.00      0.31      0.00      0.00
1997                 Comercializadori                               3.06      0.00      2.19      6.25         3.06      0.00      2.19      6.25
1999                 Corsa                                         13.00      3.00      0.00      0.00        13.00      3.00      0.00      0.00
1993                 Denvados                                       2.20      0.00      0.00      0.00         2.20      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                 Fondo Chiapaw                                  0.00      4.20      0.00      0.00         0.00      0.43      0.00      0.00
1998                 Forja Monterre3                               13.00      3.00      0.00     13.00        13.00      3.00      0.00     13.00
1991/96              GIBSA                                         21.64      0.00     10.00     72.76        21.64      0.00     10.00     72.76
1993                 GIDESA                                         6.25      8.00      0.00      4.25         6.25      8.00      0.00      4.25
1996/00              GIRSA                                         45.00      0.00      0.00     60.00        22.71      0.00      000      30.29
1993                 GOTM                                           0.82      0.00      0.00      0.22         0.82      0.00      0.00      0.22
1997/98              Gen. Hipotecarin                               0.00      1.20      0.00      0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                 GrupoCalidrn                                  12.00      6.00      0.00     10.00        12.00      6.00      0.00     10.00
1989                 Grupo FEMSA                                    0.00      9 43      0.00      0.00         0.00      9.43      0.00      0.00
1997                 GrupoMinsz                                    18.00     10.00      0.00     27.00        18.00     10.00      0.00     27.00
1992/93/95/96/9'     Grupo Posadaw                                 25.00      0.00     10.00     10.00        25.00      0.00     10.00     10.00
1992/96/97/9f        Grupo Proburs.                                 0.00      1 32      0.00      0.00         0.00      1.32      0.00      0.00
1998                 Grupo Sanfandil                                9.58      0.00      0.00      4.70         6.25      0.00      0.00      3.03
1994/96/98/OC        Heller Finanicial                              0.00      0.32      0.00      0.00         0.00      0.32      0.00      0.00
2000                 ITR                                           14.00      0.00      0.00      4.00        10.90      0.00      0.00      3.10
1994                 Interceramic                                   8.00      0.00      6.00      3.50         8.00      0.00      6.00      3.50
2000                 InverCap                                       0.00      1.00      0.00      0.00         0.00      1.00      0.00      0.00
1993                 Masterpak                                      2.40      0.00      0.00      0.00         2.40      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                 Merida III                                    30.00      0.00      0.00     73.95        27.36      0.00      0.00     67.44
1995/99              Mexplus Puertos                                0.00      1.41      0.00      0.00         0.00      1.41      0.00      0.00
1996/99/00           NEMAK                                          0.00      0.00      0.83      0.00         0.00      0.00      0.83      0.00
1998                 PuntaLangost.                                  2.63      1.00      0.00      4.55         2.63      1.00      000       4.55
2000                  Rio Bravc                                    50.00      0,00      0.00     59.50        22.83      0.00      0.00     27.17
2000                  Saltillo S.A.                                35.00      0.00      0.00     43.00         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999                 Sudameric                                      0.00     15.00      0.00      0.00         0.00     15.00      0.00      0.00
1997                 TMA                                            2.77      0.00      2.10      9.60         2.77      000       2.10      9.60
1992                 Toluca Toll Roac                               7.16      0.00      0.00      0.00         7.16      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991/92              Vitro                                          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991                 VitroFlotadc                                   4.96      0.00      0.00      2.07         496       0.00      0.00      2.07
1998                 ZNMxcEqtyFunic                                 0.00     25.30      0.00      0.00         0.00      9.81      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio                             529.60     98.53     63.44    503.93       432.57     74.85     63.44    389.81
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
2000 Teksid Aluminio                              25.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000 Teksid Hierrc                                15.00      0.00      0.00     30.00
1999 BANAMEX LRF 11                               50.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999 Baring BMPEF FMC                              0.00      0.06      0.00      0.00
1998 CimaHermosillc                                7.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000 Educacion                                     9.70      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000 FCCM                                         10.50      2.00      0.00     17.70
2000 Hospital ABC                                 30.00      0.00      0.00     14.00
2000 Innopack                                     15.00     15.00      0.00      0.00
Total PendingCommitment                     162.20     17.06      0.00     61.70
43






Annex B-Macroeconomic Framework
Annex B
MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
Recent Economic Developments
62.   Mexico's economic performance in 2000 has been strong, and key macroeconomic
indicators generally exceed both government targets and private sector expectations. Economic
growth accelerated during the first half of 2000 to 7.8 percent, in comparison with the same
period of the previous year. After some initial signs of a moderate slowdown in the expansion of
economic activity during the second half of the year, economic growth for 2000 is now expected
at 6.5-7.0 percent, still considerably above the country's annual growth trend of 5 percent
observed over the past four years. Inflation continues its downward trend and, at an expected
year-end rate of 8.8 percent for 2000, will stay well within the annual objective set by the
monetary authorities (below 10 percent). The overall external deficit, i.e. the balance of
payments current account deficit, is projected at 3.2 percent of GDP-slightly up from 2.9
percent inl 999 and within manageable proportions.
63.   Sound macroeconomic management, largely consisting of (i) tight and independent
monetary policy, (ii) a flexible foreign exchange regime and (iii) a conservative fiscal stance,
continues to provide the basis for a respectable rate of growth, single-digit inflation and a viable
external balance. Favorable external developments, in particular stronger than expected growth
of the US economy and the sharp increase of international oil prices since mid-1999, enhanced
the economic performance of Mexico in 2000. The rapid growth of aggregate demand, resulting
from these favorable external developments and their multiplier effects on domestic demand,
poses Mexican policymakers with additional challenges to (i) avoid a possible overheating of the
economy and (ii) manage the vulnerability of the economy to declines in US economic activity
or in international oil prices, both of which have been at unusually high levels.
64.   The higher-than-anticipated oil prices generated substantial windfall revenue with a direct
impact on both the external and fiscal accounts. The external oil windfall in 2000 amounted
approximately to US$5.6 billion or 1 percent of GDP.14 The windfall revenue for the overall
public sector is even slightly larger at approximately US$7 billion or 1.25 percent of GDP, due to
additional higher revenue generated from domestic oil sales.
65.   The year-end fiscal deficit is expected to be slightly under the target of 1.0 percent. With
the exception of the higher transfers to states and municipalities, no substantial increase of public
expenditure took place, and overall public expenditure remained very much on target. On the
revenues side, higher oil revenues were largely offset by other revenue shortfalls. The fiscal
position, by not increasing public savings in an amount equal to the externally generated oil
windfall, thus had a more expansionary result than originally targeted for 2000. In addition,
front-loading some public expenditures further contributed to the particularly rapid expansion of
domestic demand during the first half of the year.
14. On the basis of the observed average price of Mexican oil of US$25 per barrel compared to the price of-
US$16.5 per barrel estimated for the 2000 economic program and federal budget.
45



Annex B-Macroeconomic Framework
66.   The real effective exchange rate, based on relative consumer prices, continued to
appreciate gradually during 2000. Although it is now close to the level observed before the
1994-95 crisis, concerns about an "overvaluation" of the peso should be tempered with
recognition that that the long-term equilibrium real exchange rate depends on real phenomena
such as terms of trade, relative productivity and the availability of external capital. The floating-
rate regime, adopted after the 1995 crisis, remains in place and continues to allow market-driven
adjustments, and labor-productivity gains in Mexican manufacturing industry and a yet
incomplete recovery of real wages (to the level observed before the 1995 crisis) show a more
limited appreciation of the real effective exchange rate based on relative unit labor costs.
67.   Tight monetary policy, together with the appreciation of the peso, contributed lower than
expected inflation and led to high real interest rates, in a range of 7-9 percent. Monetary
authorities repeatedly stressed the need for an appropriate mix of monetary and fiscal policy in
aggregate demand management in order to avoid the negative impact on the country's external
balance (and the related increase in vulnerability to external shocks) from excessive reliance on
monetary policy).
Macroeconomic Prospects and Vulnerability
68.   The economic program of the incoming administration includes tightening fiscal policy,
in order to keep aggregate demand pressures in check, and continued reduction of inflation. The
fiscal tightening and an expected slowdown of US economic activity. (to 3 percent annual real
growth) lead to program targets of 4.0-4.5 percent real growth in 2001.
69.   Fiscal tightening is planned in order to bring the deficit down to 0.5 percent of GDP even
with a projected reduction of the oil price, from an average of US$25 per barrel during 2000 to
US$18 per barrel for 2001. That oil-price assumption reduces public sector oil revenues by
about 1 percent of GDP compared to 2000, part of which is automatically shared with state and
municipal governments through lower participaciones. The additional fiscal tightening will be
obtained from a reduction of expenditures rather than an increase of non-oil revenues. While the
incoming government recognizes the need for comprehensive fiscal reform by broadening the tax
base and increasing non-oil revenues, it will not enact the reform in 2001. Assumptions on the
external environment underlying the monetary and fiscal program for 2001 are more
conservative than international sources,'5 particularly for oil prices. Adopting more conservative
assumptions, mainly for precautionary reasons, also provides the additional fiscal tightening
needed to correct the excess domestic demand expansion that took place during 2000.
70.   The monetary authorities announced a year-end inflation target of 6.5 percent for 2001, in
line with the medium-term objective of 3 percent inflation by 2003. The inflation target is
ambitious compared with private sector expectations of 8 percent in 2001 and will require
continued tight monetary policy along with the fiscal measures.
15. IMF-WEO and the World Bank's DECPG projections of September 2000 are 3.2 percent for US economic
growth and an equivalent of US$22 per barrel for the Mexican oil price, whereas the Consensus Forecast of-
October 2000 includes a 3.7 percent US economic growth and US$21 per barrel for Mexican oil.
46



Annex B-Macroeconomic Framework
71.   In addition to the vulnerability of the Mexican economy to the performance of the US
economy and oil prices, the macroeconomic scenario depends on the ability of the incoming
administration to build the political consensus necessary to implement its program. Following
the historical presidential elections last July, the markets reacted favorably to the lack of a post-
electoral conflict and the perception of an important structural reform agenda by the new
administration. Avoiding political stalemate on major structural reform initiatives, including a
comprehensive fiscal reform to reduce dependence on oil revenue, will require strong political
consensus building, since there is no partisan majority in Congress.
72.   Annex Tables A provide detailed macroeconomic projections based on the government's
fiscal and monetary programs and on assumptions from international sources about the country's
external environment. The base scenario shows a slowdown in domestic demand, and in
particular private consumption. The initial slowdown of economic activity and domestic demand
will partly offset the impact on the balance of payments of lower oil prices and slower US
growth, maintaining the current account deficit within manageable proportions and financed
largely by foreign direct investment.
External Financing Requirements
73.   One element that contributed to the severity of the 1994-95 crisis was the amount of
short-term dollar-indexed public debt (Tesobonos) contracted immediately before the crisis.
Therefore, in addition to prudent fiscal and monetary policies and a flexible exchange rate
regime, the current administration has managed external public debt in order to reduce short-term
repayment and refinancing needs, particularly during the political transition. Mexican authorities
announced in July 2000 the renewal of a contingent external financing package totaling US$26.4
billion covering a period until December 2001, a full year into the next administration. The
package consists of US$19.7 billion in credit resources that can be accessed from international
organizations (IMF US$1.5, World Bank US$6.016, IDB US$4.2 and Eximbanks US$8.0 billion)
and US$6.7 in contingent, crisis-management credit arrangements with the US and Canadian
monetary authorities. On this occasion the Mexican authorities also announced that remaining
resources under the IMF Stand-By Arrangement of US$1.5 billion would not be drawn but
remain at the disposal of Mexico. In August 2000, Mexico prepaid all its outstanding obligations
with the IMF, US$3.0 billion.
74.   Detailed projections of Mexico's external financing requirements and sources of finance
are presented in Annex Table A. Total public and private sector external financing requirements
are estimated at US$63, 58 and 67 billion for the years 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively.
These amounts include the roll-over of short-term trade finance as well as the inter-bank credit
lines. These sizeable external financing requirements are expected to be financed mainly from
international private sources. All the net financing needs, i.e. the balance of payments current
account deficit, are expected to come from the Mexican private sector. Over two-thirds of these
net financing needs will be covered by private investment flows and the remainder with
16. Potential access to World Bank resources refers to the stock of un-disbursed World Bank loans of about USS2.9
billion and the remainder of the CAS fiscal 1999-2001 lending program presented to and discussed by the
Board on June 8, 1999. Of the total fiscal 1999-2001 lending program of US$5.2 billion, US$2.1 billion has-
been committed during fiscal 1999-2000 leaving another US$3.1 billion to be committed.
47



Annex B-Macroeconomic Framework
additional debt incurred by the private sector. The public sector is not expected to increase its
external indebtedness substantially, but does require refinancing of obligations coming due and
will continue a strategy to refinance external public debt to improve its cost and maturity
structure if international markets conditions allow. Maintaining adequate access to longer-term
financing as provided by the World Bank and other international financial organizations will
continue to be essential for improving the structure of Mexico's external public debt.
48



Annex C-Amount and Structure of Public Debt
Annex C
AMOUNT AND STRUCTURE OF PUBLIC DEBT IN THE ESTADO DE MEXICO
75.    By the end of 2000 the EdoMex Government is projected to have MxP 22.9 billion of
public debt, plus accumulated arrears of MxP 4.7 billion. This estimated total public stock of
MxP 27.6 billion represents 69 percent of total ordinary income of the state during fiscal 2000-
above the generally accepted benchmark of a maximum of 60 percent. IThis ratio is substantially
higher-143 percent-if earmarked resources transferred to the state for decentralized activities
(Ramo 33) and participaciones to municipalities are deducted from the state's ordinary income.
76.   The impact of this over-indebtedness is only mitigated by a favorable amortization
schedule, resulting from several Federal Government-led debt-restructuring schemes. These
schemes, accessible to all states and municipalities, were put in place in 1995 and 1997 to
remedy the impact of the financial crisis that hit the country in 1995, which led to large interest
rate increases. Under the Programa de Apoyo Crediticio a Estados y Municipios (PACEM)
states and municipalities could restructure their debt with both commercial and development
banks into inflation-indexed (UDI) debt and extend the average maturity. This greatly reduced
debt-service payments in the short term, because what would have been the inflation component
of the interest on regular debt was automatically capitalized in to the principle, via the indexing.
Under the first phase of the PACEM in 1995, the EdoMex restructured its debt into UDI debt at a
real interest rate of 9.5 percent and a final maturity of eight years with a two-year grace period.
The second phase of the PACEM allowed the state to restructure the maturity and interest rate of
its UDI debt to a real interest rate of 7.5 percent, with a maturity of 18 years and level debt-
service payments.'7
77.   The EdoMex public debt, restructured under the second PACEM since May 1997, will
require annual debt service payments over the next years of 745 million UDIs (equivalent at this
moment to MxP 2.1 billion), of which amortization will make up a gradually increasing part, due
to the level-payment structure of the debt. Amortization of UDI debt will make up about one
third of the UDI debt service payment due in 2001. By the end of 2000 the stock public debt
denominated in UDIs will amount to an equivalent of MxP 18.6 billion, which represents 81
percent of the state's public debt excluding arrears (or 67.5 percent of public debt including
arrears), and a remaining average maturity of nine years.
78.   New debt contracted by the EdoMex after the second phase of PACEM  has been
denominated almost all in pesos, i.e. at a nominal interest rate. At the moment, EdoMex has a
nominal peso debt stock (excluding arrears) of MxP 4.3 billion with a remaining average
maturity of slightly under three years. This peso-denominated debt has been contracted at a
variable nominal interest rate, on average at the Mexican inter-bank rate (TIIE) plus 110 basis
points.  Debt service payments on this existing debt stock are heavily front-loaded due to both
the short average maturity and the absence of a level payment structure.  Amortization
requirements amount to approximately MxP 0.8 billion in 2001 and an annual average of MxP
0.4 billion for the next four years.
17. This structure is equivalent to an average maturity of the debt of 1 1.7 years.
18. TIIE is on average some 200 basis points above the comparable federal government nominal CETES rate.
49



Annex C-Arnount and Structure of Public Debt
79.   The EdoMex accumulated a significant amount of arrears over the past two years, an
estimated amount of MxP 0.7 billion and MxP 1.2 billion in 1999 and 2000 respectively,
bringing the total amount of arrears to an estimated MxP 4.7 billion by the end of 2000. The
inability of the EdoMex to contract debt to the amount of its annual financing requirements on
the market can be attributed to both the perception by the market of an over-indebtedness issue
and the freeze on sub-national government borrowing since April 2000. This is partly due to the
lack of agreement thus far between banks and states in establishing an alternative guarantee
mechanism after the Federal Government's reform abolished its previous practice of accepting
mandatos to collateralize state debt with participaciones. In addition, the state has not yet gotten
its credit rating published.
80.   The fiscal adjustment program to be adopted by the EdoMex is projected to substantially
diminish the state's annual financial requirements through the improvement of the overall fiscal
balance, namely, posting increasing fiscal surpluses after 2002, and financing part of the
financial requirements in 2001 and 2002 with the proceeds of the Bank loan that would carry a
longer maturity than market finance. The Bank loan would finance approximately two thirds of
the state's financial requirements during 2001-02 and represent about 17 percent of the state's
total debt stock (including remaining arrears) by the end of 2002.
50



Annex D-Letters of Development Policy
Annex D
LETTERS OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
51






G.H4.1
DIRECCiON GENERAL DE CREDITO PUBLICO
DIRECCION GENERAL ADJUNTA DE ORGANISMOS
FINANCIEROS INTERNACIONALES
Subdirecci6n de Proyectos Especiales
y del Sector Privado
SECRETIR11                      Oficio No. 305- V1.6. 282
DE
NACIEIIDA 7 CREDITO PUBuCo
Mexico D.F., a 13 de noviembre de 2000.
0
,,,,  .    ! ;'      --  '1 At. , t
OLIVIER LAFOURCADE                                                       t ;V. Z0O
Director y Representante Residente
para M6xico - Banco Mundial                                             :      _
1nsurgentes Sur No. 1605                                                          -
Torre Mural, Piso 24
Col. San Josd Insurgentes
Hago referencia al Programa de Saneamiento Financiero del Estado de Mexico recdenternente
negociado con el Banco Mundial, y en especifico a las condiciones de presentaci6n al Directorio
Ejecutivo, establecidas en la Minuta de Negociaci6n de dicho pr6stamo.
Sobre el particular, adjunto me permito enviar a Usted ia Carta de Politica del Gobiemo Federal.
dirigida por el Secretario de Hacienda y Cr6dito Puiblico, Lic. Angel Gurria, al Serior James
Wolfensohn, Presidents del Banco Mundial.
Sin otro particular por el momento, aprovecho la ocasi6n para reiterarle mi consideraci6n mas
distinguida.
SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECCION
El Director General Adjunto de Organismos
Financieros Intemacionales,
RICARDO OCHOA
C.c.p.- Direcci6n General de CrWdito Pfblico.- Secretarla Particular.- SHCP.- Presente.
Ismael Diaz Agulera.- Gerente de Organismos Financieros Internacionales.- BANOBRAS.- Presente.
Direcci6n General Adjunta de Organismos Financieros Internacionales.- SHCP.
Subdireccion de Proyectos Especiales y del Sector Privado.- SHCP.- Presente.
1u~ . u~wA                                  53






MiS
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
SECRETARIA PARTICULAR
101l-  179 2
SECRETARIA
NCIEDA rCOEo PUBto                M6xico D.F.. a 13 de noviembre del 2000.
Sr. James 0. Wolfensohn
Presidente
Banco Mundial
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Estimado Sefior Wolfensohn:
En relaci6n con el prestamo en apoyo al Programa de Saneamiento Financiero del Estado de Mexico
a ser contratado por la Federaci6n con el Banco Mundial (BM), cuyo fin es sanear las finanzas del
Estado a trevos de reformas sectoriales que contribuyan a hacer mas eficientes las erogaciones del
gasto y fortalecer los ingresos publicos, me permito hacer de su conocimiento algunos aspectos de la
situaci6n y pollticas macroecon6micas del pals. y en particular las acciones m6s releventes del
Gobiemo de Mexico para impulsar el federalismo a fin. de quo los estados de la Republica fortalezcan
su capacidad de gesti6n y respondan mas directamente a las necesidades de su poblaci6n. En
especifico, me refiero a la propuesta del Estado de Mexico para reformar sus finanzas intemas para
poder participar mis vigorosamente de los beneficios que este nuevo federalismo le brinda.
.. Sltuaci6n Macroeconomica
La exitosa implementaci6n de politicas econ6micas equilibradas permitio a Ia economia mexicana
cumplir las metas macroecon6micas que el actual Gobierno se habla propuesto a principlos de afio. y
en algunos casos incluso sobrepasarlas. Como resultado, M6xico mantuvo su posici6n como una de
las economias mas dinamicas de America Latina. Estos exitos han fortalecido la capacidad de
Mexico para sobrellevar eventos desfavorables en los mercados internacionales. distingui6ndose asi
de otras economias emergentes. En este contexto, el crecimiento del Producto Interno Bruto para el
aAo 2000 seri de alrededor del 7%, cifra superior a la meta del 4.5% programada al principio del aAo,
con io cual el crecimiento promedio anual para el periodo 1996-2000 sera de aproximadamente 5%.
Se estima quo para el afio 2001 el crecimiento del producto podria ubicarse en 4%.
La expansi6n de la economia mexicana, que para finales del segundo semestre del 2000 habrl
registrado 18 trimestres consecutivos de crecimiento, ha producido un crecimiento importante de los
niveles de empleo. La tasa de desempleo abierto (TDA) promedi6 2.5% en 1999, y durant el periodo
enero-junio de 2000 se ubic6 en 2.26 %, inferor en 0-49 puntos porcentuales a Ia registrada en el
mismo lapso del afio anterior. La TOA observada en el presente semestre es la menor quo se ha
registrado desde que este indicador comenz6 a calcularse en 1985.
55
L"- DACWA



SECRETARIA
DE
HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLUCO
Por su pafte la politica fiscal ha promovido la generacion de ahorro interno, liberando recursos
adicionales para la inversi6n privada. contribuyendo a la reducci6n de la inflaci6n y de las tasas de
inter6s, asi como al mantenimiento de un nivel de deficit en cuenta corriente congruente con la
disponibilidad de ahorro extemo de largo plazo. En 1999 el sector publico registr6 un deficit de 1. 14%
del Producto Interno Bruto, monto menor al maximo permitido por el Congreso seguin las previsiones
hechas para el afho (1.25% del PIB). Cabe sefialar que durante el periodo enero - junio del 2000, el
balance puiblico registr6 un superAvit de 23 mil 124 millones de pesos, superior en 46.4 por ciento en
terminos reales al del mismo periodo del ar1o anterior, y en linea con Ia meta anual de deficit publico
equivalente a 1.0 % del PIB contemplada para el alo 2000.
Este aumento en la actividad econ6mica y crecimiento en la tasa de empleo ocuridr dentro de un
marco de menor inflaci6n. La tasa de inflaci6n registrada en 1999 fue de 12.3%, cifra menor en mas
de 0.5 puntos porcentuales a la cifra de inflaci6n programada. De este mismo modo, a octubre del
presente afio la inflaci6n acumulada asciende a 6.9% con lo cual al cierre del anio podri registrarse
una tasa de inflaci6n menor a la programada (10%).
En matena de deuda extema, la favorable evoluci6n de los mercados financieros internacionales hizo
posible que en abril se completara la totalidad del programa de refinanciamiento de la deuda extema
programado para el ailo 2000 y en agosto se cancelaron, en forma anticipada, todas las obligaciones
pendientes con el Fondo Monetario Intemacional. Los resuftados favorables del sector publico en
1999 llevaron a una reducci6n de 2.7 puntos porcentuales sobre el total de la deuda pCoblica neta
como porcentaje del PIB. Durante los primeros seis meses del ano 2000 la disminuci6n en el saldo
total de la deuda ptiblica extema es de 0.8 puntos porcentuales respecto al observado al cierre de
1999. para ubicarse en 15.0 % del PIS.
Los resullados del sector externo tambi6n fueron favorables. Durante 1999, el d6flcit en cuenta
coriente fue de US 14,012.8 millones (2.8% del PIB). Durante el primer trimestre de 2000, el d6ficit
de la cuenta comente ascendic a 4 mil 203.4 millones de d6lares congruente con las entradas de
inversion extranjera directa al pais y en linea con la meta programada para el cierre del ano (3.1% del
PIS). Esto fue resuftado de la politica monetaria restrictiva del Banco de Mexico, de la mayor
estabilidad en los mercados financieros y del manejo disciplinado, de las finanzas puiblicas.
Por todo to anterior, el desempefio de la economia mexicana durante el presente aino indica que la
economia ha entrado al nuevo milenio con bases s6lidas, con lo que so asegura una suave transicion
hacia ia nueva administracion.
11. El Federalismo como Directrix de la Politica Econ6mica
El fortatecimiento del federalismo ha sido uno de los ejes principales sobre los que la presente
administraci6n ha basado la consolidacion de la economia y de las instituciones democriticas. Al
comenzar esta Administracidn nos propusimos avanzar hacia un nuevo federalismo sobre la base de
una profunda redistribuci6n de competencias, responsabilidades y recursos del Gobiemo Federal
hacia las autoridades estatales y municipales. La renovaci6n del pacto federal ha permitido vigorizar
a los gobiemos de las entidades federativas y municipios.
56



GM.'
SECREThRIA
KACIENOA V CREDITO PuSLtCO
El camino seguido por M6xico ha consistido en (i) el incremento de los recursos a las entidades
subnacionales y la ampliaci6n de sus responsabilidades, (ii) el mejoramiento en la transparencia de
las transferencias intergubemamentales y, de manera general, del gasto publico federal ejercido en
las entidades subnacionales. y (iii) la cornsolidaci6n de un sistema regulatono para el endeudamiento
subnacional basado en mecanismos de mercado.
Ademrs del tradicional sistema de participaciones utilizado desde 1980, el Gobierno Mexicano ha
delegado a los estados las responsabilidades sobre educaci6n y salud y les ha transfendo los
recursos correspondientes. Asimismo, so han aumentado las transferencias a los municipios. Todo
esto ha favorecido a las entidades ya que ahora tienen la capacidad de predecir el monto de sus
recursos y programar su asignaci6n.
Los recursos federalizados quo serin canalizados a estados y municipios en el aAo 2000 a trav6s de
aportaciones, partcipaciones federales y convenios de descentralizaci6n, oumentarin en 5.9 por
ciento real con rolacl6n a 1999. En el presento ejercicio. el total do recursos federalizados representa
60.3 por ciento de la recaudaci6n federal participable, mientras que en 1994 dichos recursos equivafan a
47.3 por cient. Asi, la mayor parte de la recaudac6n federal se reintogra a ls gobiemnos de las enWodades
federativas y a los municipos para su ejercvico soberano, con independoncia de lo quo recaudan los
gobiernos locales como fuentes propias.
En general. los recursos otorgados a estbdos y municipios se distribuyen conforme a criterios daros y
transparentes. La distnbuci6n de las participaciones sigue f6rmulas bien establecidas. La distribuci6n
de las aponaciones federales para infraetructura social, fortalecimiento municipal y seguridad pOblica
se cifle tambi6n a f6rmulas quo consideran factores como Is poblaci6n objetivo y el grado de
marginsci6n. Los programas sectoriales de fondos de contrapartida y de acuerdos
intergubemamentmles de desempefio, ofrecidos por el Gobierno Federal. se ngsn par f6rmulas o
criterios de acco que constan en el Presupuesto Federal y que son publicados en detalle en el
Diano Oficial de la Federaci6n. La transparencia en la asignaci6n de lhs recursos foderales se
fortaleci6 en los af%os 1999-2000, con la eliminaci6n casi complete de las transferencias
discrecionales a los gobiemos subnacionales y la creaci6n de un Fondo para cubrir gastos do
emergencias, con reglas claramento establecidas pars disponer de los recursos s6lo en caso de
desastres naturales. En 1999 las transferencias discrecionales representaron menos del 0.15 por
ciento del gasto federal y pare el aflo 2000 se espera mantenerlas por debajo de esta proporci6n.
Paraleamente, se increment6 el nuimero de entidades federativas que reformaron o actualizaron el
marco juridico de las finanzes publicas, de manera que la mayorla do ollas cuwnta hoy con Ley de
Deuda Pibbrca, Ley de Presupuesto e informes trimestrales de finanzas pbblicas. Todas estas
medidas incentivan a los estados y municipios a observar Ia responsabilidad fiscal y asignar ol gasto
pCiblico de manera mis eficients y se mantiens la estabilidad fiscal a nivel federal.
Gracias al fotaleeimiento de las transferencias fiscales y de los instrumentos contables y
presupuestarios de las entidados subnacionales se consigui6 disminuir el nurmero de estados con
d6ficit primario y financiero. Consecuentemente se logr6 una reducci6n en el saldo de Ia deuda
puiblica total as( como del impacto de Is deuda sobre el ingreso total de los estados. La deuda estatal
total disminuy6 24% in t6rminos reales durante el periodo 1995-1999 y, salvo en el caso de tres
excepciones, la deuda real disminuy6 en todas las entidades. Sin embargo, se necesitaba disponer
de mis y de mejor informacl6n sobre la situacion fiscal de estados y municipios para facilitar su
57
WV .   ,I



G.H.1
SECRETARIA
DE
HACIENDA T CREDITO PVBLICO
> El esfuerzo fiscal adicional, mediante la ampliaci6n de la base gravable y la elevaci6n de la tasa
del impuesto sobre el salario.
> La protecci6n del gasto en salud y en educaci6n, compatible con la utilizaci6n mas eficiente de los
recursos de ambos sectores. Estas reformas sientan bases para un manejo m;s aut6nomo de la
educaci6n por parte de los estados.
> La reforma al sistema de pensiones, que incluye la apertura del sistema de pensiones del Estado
a los nuevos sistemas de capitalizaci6n individual, estimula la portabilidad y establece
precedentes para refornmas de las ponsiones en otros estados.
> La implantaci6n de mecanismos efectivos de cobro del servicio de agua, que habra de posibilitar
la reforma de las practicas de cobro en los niveles federal y municipal.
> La elevacion de la transparencla en la administraci6n financiera.
> La introducci6n de nuevos limites al endeudamiento. especialmente al nivel de la deuda flotante, y
de practicas de diseminaci6n de la situaci6n y el manejo de la deuda del Estado.
Creemos que este programa de reformas fortalecera las finanzas del Estado, mejorari la capacidad
de gesti6n del gobierno y fomentari la reducci6n de pobreza. A nivel nacional, estas reformas
contribuirin a la estabilidad macroecon6mica, elemento clave necesario para Ilevar a cabo con exito
medidas dirigidas a reducir la pobroza. Asimisno. las reformas van a incrementar los recursos del
Estado de Mexico destinados a los programas sociales que dan atencl6in de la gente pobre - por
ejemplo. escuelas con manor indice de maestro por alumno que el estindar nacional y los programas
de salud para gente no empleada en el sector formal.
El apoyo del la Federaci6n a este programa esti basado, entre otros aspectos, en el impacto de las
finanzas del Estado en el marco macroecon6mico nacional, el cornpromiso evidente del gobiemo del
estado con el programa de reforma, y en el efecto demostrativo quo se puede producir en otros
estados.
V. Apoyc del Banco Mundial
La consolidaci6n del Federalismo es un proceso irreversible que complementa el programa de
reformas macroecon6micas de Mexico. Significativos son los avances logrados en matena de
descentralizaci6n hasta la fecha. No obstante, Mexico debera continuar los esfuerzos dirigidos a
fortalecer el desempeflo de las finanzas subnacionales.
En este contexto, el Gobiemo Federal solicita el apoyo t6cnico y financiero del Banco Mundial para la
realizaci6n del programa de ajuste fiscal y financiero del Estado de Mexico. Este programa del
Goblemo Federal esti dirigido a respaldar las pollticas de saneamiento estructural y de
financiamiento de la deuda del Estado de M6xico y a mejorar su calificaci6n de cr6dito y acceso a
recursos. Este mismo apoyo establecera pautas para aumentar la autonomia, la responsabilidad
fiscal y la transparencia de los gobbemos subnacionales en las decislones de asignaci6n de recursos,
mejorando el desempeflo de los mercados de cr6dito a nivel estatal y municipal, y reforzando la
capacidad de gesti6n financiera de los recursos puiblicos de los gobiernos subnacionales.
58
rIv .   ,1ACD



GI.h.
SECRETARIA
DE
HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
La asistencia del Banco Mundial contribuira a consolidar las reformas puestas en marcha previamente
con el apoyo del Banco Mundial mediante el antes mencionado Prestamo de Ajuste para la
Descentralizaci6n y, de manera general, para fortalecer el proceso de descentralizaci6n en Mfxico.
Atentamente,
SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECCION.
El Secretano
Angel Gurria
59
may. *  ~






1* ~~Gotilermodel Estcod   &*=                   isz I  e t  v.-tca
Podw qo=AVAN
Toluca de Lerdo, Mexico,
10 de noviembre de 2000.
LICENCIADO
JOSE ANGEL GURRIA TREVINfO
SECRETARIO DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
PRESENTE
Estimado Senor Secretario:
Deseo hacer de su conocimiento que el Gobierno del Estado de Mexico se
propone lievar a cabo un programa de reformas de sus finanzas publicas con
objeto de mejorar su situach6n financiera. fortalecer la capacidad de gesti6n y
mejorar la provisi6n de infraestructura y servicios pCiblicos. Por lo tanto, es de
inter6s del Gobiemo del Estado, contar con el respaldo del Gobiemo Federal a
trav6s de BANOBRAS, para lograr que el programs de reformas se realice con
6xito. Atento a lo anterior, a continuaci6n se describen las acciones mas
relevantes que se han realizado y el programa de reformas que se previ poner
en marcha.
I.  Realizaciones del Estado de M6xico en el contexto fiscal tradicional.
El Estado de Mkxico se caracteriz6 por trabajar estrechamente con la
Federaci6n en el marco del Federalismo Mexicano hasta la decada de los
noventa. Durante ese tiempo, la interacci6n entre ambos niveles fue de
coordinaci6n en el diseFio e implementacion de politicas, co-financiando o
subsidiando actividades estatales. Las politicas del Gobierno Federal
contribuyeron a hacer frente a los retos fiscales y financieros en el Estado
mis importante del pals en lo que respecta a poblacl6n y Producto Intemo
Bruto. Las transferenclas federales compensaron en alguna medida los
balances fiscales estatales, y cuando se requino de financiamiento, el
acceso del Estado al cr6dito se facilit6 pot medio de la garantla de
participeclones federales.
*   La poblaci6n estimada en el Estado de Mexico es de mAs de 13 millones
de personas. El goblerno estatal ha disef%ado y aplicado politicas sociales
y de infraestructura, orientadas a atender las necesidades generadas por
la mis aha tasa de crecimiento poblacional del pals, a la vez quo ha
atraldo grandes inverslones (nacionales e internacionales) que han
establecido una s6lida base productiva dentro del territorio del Estado.
61



Gobiemo CIO Est-do                                      I. ..o  T A. e- - - IeI
En respuests a los flujos masivos de migraci6n interna, tuvo la necesidad
de desarrollar Su propio sistema de educaci6n para Ilegar a donde el
sistema federal no alcanz6. La diversidad cultural propia de la entidad fue
multiplicada por personas que llegaron de todos los estados del pats. La
dispersi6n multicultural y geogrifica de la poblaci6n, fue atendida a trav6s
de un sistema de educaci6n diversificado que alcanz6 cada lugar de la
entidad. Debido a la asignaci6n de montos importantes del presupuesto
estatal para el pago de maestros y otro tipo de inversiones en educaci6n.
el Estado alcanz6 niveles mis altos de cobertura en Areas urbana y rural y
tiene tasas maestro/alumno' arriba del promedlo nacional. Cuando se
inici6 la descentralizaci6n del Sistema de Educaci6n Bisica Federal, el
gasto per cApita en educaci6n alcanz6 los niveles mis altos en todo
Mexico. La arnpliaci6n de la oferta educativa para la formaci6n de personal
docente, asegur6 el suministro regular de maestros quienes fueron
reclutados en el sistema de educaci6n estatal a su egreso de [as escuelas
normales.
*   Sistemas paralelos de seguridad social, proveen servicios de salud para
empleados publicos y privados, el Instituto de Salud Estatal brinda
servicios bisicos para los trabajadores del sector informal y Ia poblaci6n
marginada, asl como parte del Programa de Desarrollo Integral de la
Familia. Mientras que el porcentaje de pobreza registrado en el Estado se
sitba por debajo del promedio nacional, debido al tamano de su poblaci6n,
cuenta con Ia mayor cantidad de personas que viven por debajo de la llnea
de pobreza en el pals.
*   Se ha asignado un papel preponderante a la oferta de infraestructura. Con
la participacd6n del Gobiemo Federal, se construy6 la red mis grande de
carreteras de todos los estados. Se asegura la provisi6n de agua y
saneamiento auin a comunidades con limitadas posibilidades de pago, y es
tambi6n la primera fuente de ayuds en emergencias en caso de desastres
naturales.
II. El nuevo contexto fiscal y financiero para el Estado de Mexico.
*   El Federalismo Mexicano ha evolucionado durante los uttimos ocho afios y
en os pr6ximos se caracterizari por una mayor autonomia estatal,
reduciri la dependencia del nivel nacional y aumentari las
responsabilidades de los gobiemos locales. En este nuevo contexto, los
estados tienen que empezar a reforzar su autonomia fiscal y financiera de
inmediato. Particularmente, el Estado de M6xico espera que la revisi6n del
Pacto Fiscal Federal expanda su capacidad, aumentando sus ingresos
62



CGobem  de Estodo de M6O                                       1O' V' 1 t c
Podsefe.jto                                                        ML 200
propios y que compense adecuadamente el alto gasto educativo que
enfrenta el Gobiemo Estatal.
Los retos fiscales y financieros inmediatos requieren la adecuaci6n de las
finanzas estatales al nuevo marco regulatorio para las operaciones
crediticias y el reestablecimiento del acceso a los mercados de cr6dito,
bajo t6rminos y condiciones favorables. Para llegar a lo anterior, se
necesita disminuir el d6ficit fiscal y empezar a reconstruir una capacidad
de inversi6n sustentable propia. Tambien necesita reprogramar su deuda y
hacer que el servicio de la misma sea compatible con el balance fiscal. A
fin de llevar a cabo un programa de inversi6n adecuado, el Estado de
M6xico debe revertir la tendencia de alta demanda de endeudamiento y
creciente servicio de la deuda.
Como consecuencia de lo anterior, el Estado de M6xico no puede confiar
mbs en transferencias federales extraordinarias para equilibrar el
presupuesto estatal. Por lo tanto, los requerimientos de servicio de deuda
deben guardar una proporci6n adecuada al balance primario estatal y la
deuda flotante debe ser reducida a una proporci6n razonable al tamaio del
gasto. Fortaleceri sus ingresos para asegurar el pago de las pensiones
estatales y otras deudas contingentes. Tambi4n, fiene que aprovechar at
miximo las fuentes de generaci6n de lngresos propios mientras se
promueven reformas para una mayor autonomia fiscal. Si el Estado
pretende mantener un alto nivel de inversi6n privada y expandir
gradualmente las industrias de servicios de alta tecnologla, los programas
de inversi6n puiblica deben ser sostenidos, los impuestos deben
permanecer neutrales y eficientes y los costos de transacci6n deben ser
reducidos al minimo.
Nuestro roto es el de elevar la eficiencia en la provisi6n de infraestructura,
asi como de servicios publicos y establecer claramente la divisi6n de
responsabilidades entre los distintos niveles de Gobiemo. El Estado de
Mexico debe mejorar la fiscalizaci6n de sus ingresos y promover el cobro
del agua en, bloque a los municipios. De esta forma se estima tener
mayores oportunidades para una reforma del pacto fiscal federal de
acuerdo a las expectativas del Estado.
*   El Estado es conciente de que se esti produciendo una creciente
descentralizaci6n del gasto federal y un mayor reforzamiento de la
autonomla administrativa municipal. Las transferencias federales
etiquetadas para los municipios, han tenido un enorme crecimiento durante
los Ciftimos tres afhos bajo las aportaciones del Ramo 33. La reforma en
1999 al articulo 115 de ls Constituci6n, garantiza autonomia local en el
presupuesto municipal, en la politica de impuestos y en la administraci6n.
63



.            MGobiem del Estodo de M&,dco                                    - It^ L' ; : 1:
El Estado esti preparado para seguir estas politicas del Gobierno Federal
por dos vias: reduciendo los subsidios propios a los municipios y hacienda
sus propias transferencias para los municipios con mayor transparencia.
Esto reforzari Is capacidad para planear el presupuesto estatal y ayudar a
generar un superivit en el balance fiscal.
111. Las politicas de ajuste y acciones del Estado de M6xico.
Como Gobemador, deseo comunicarle de las pollticas de reforma y
acciones quo el Estado de M6xico ha decidido realizar como parte de su
estrategla de largo plazo, para la provisi6n eficiente y sostenible de
servicios sociales y de infraestructura. El programa de reformas consiste
en una agenda amplia de reformas a nivel estatal, congruente con los
cambios de politica fiscal y financiera en proceso en el pals, incluyendo
reformas a nivel federal y local y cambios en las relaciones dentro de los
tres niveles de Gobiemo.
El Estado de M6xico promueve y adopta politicas que:
- Lo adapten al nuevo entorno financiero para las operaciones de Ia
entidad.
- Desafrollen una mejor coordinaci6n fiscal federal y sectorial con los
municipios.
- Lo condicionen anticipada y adecuadamente el proceso continuo de
federalizaci6n dirigido a reforzar la autonomia estatal.
El Estado esti interesado en quo algunas de las pollticas enunciadas,
sean pioneras y utiles para su posible adopci6n en otros estados.
La reforma econ6mica y de ajuste del Estado est resumida en la matnz
que se anexa a la presente. Sus objetivos son mejorar el balance fiscal del
Estado a trav6s de acciones en siete sectores: de los Ingresos (activos
ftsicos e impuestos) y de gastos (en educaci6n, salud. pensiones, agua y
carreteras), ademis, varias reformas sistemiticas de administraci6n de
finanzas y douda.
*   El Gobierno Estatal considera que ningtn programa de ajuste fiscal puede
ser sustentable en el modiano plazo sin reformar los sectores sociales y de
infraestructura. Las reformas institucionales y presupuestarias son
indispensables para eliminar subsidios indiscriminados y prevenir gastos
no sustentables en educaci6n, agua y salud. Por ello, continuaremos
revisando el crecimiento del personal del sector educativo y otros gastos
corrientes. Ademis, para permitir la realizaci6n de un programa de
64



Gobiemno del Estodo de M6dco
PO  EWut*o                                                 MA      L
inversin adecuado, es necesario establecer montos de deuda que
mejoren la calificaci6n crediticia y reduzcan los precios pagados a
contratistas y proveedores.
*   Con estas medidas, el programa de reformas del Estado de Mexico
reduciri el deficit fiscal a no mcis de 0.5% de los ingresos ordinarios para
el afio 2001 y alcanzara un superivit fiscal en el afio 2002 y por lo menos
hasta el 2005.
*   A continuaci6n describo con mayor detalle las medidas incorporadas en el
programa:
- Impuestos:
a) Expansi6n de la base de impuesto al salario por eliminaci6n de
excepciones.
b) Incremento de la tasa de impuesto al salario al 2.5% (superior at
promedio nacional).
c) Incremento de la tenencia estatal de autos dentro de los limites
compatibles con otras entidades.
d) Mejoramiento de las administraci6n impositiva para facilitar a los
contribuyentes el pago de impuestos.
e) Fortalecimiento del proceso de fiscalizacion.
- Comerclalizacl6n de Activos Fislcos. Para reducir el costo de
mantenimiento y generar ingresos de capital, la comercializaci6n de
bienes fisicos podri realizarse a trav6s de la renta, concesi6n o venta,
dependiendo del tipo de bien. Nuestro objetivo es comercializar todos
los activos incluidos en el plan de comercializaci6n dentro de los
pr6ximos cinco afnos.
- Educacion. Se debe sostener nuestra provisi6n de servicios sociales,
especialmente para los ciudadanos mas marginados de nuestro
Estado. En educaci6n, mantendremos el nivel de gasto per capita y la
relaci6n alumno-maestro y se incentivart la eficiencia en el gasto a
travAs de una mejor coordinaci6n Federaci6n-Estado y Is aplicaci6n de
indicadores de desempeflo. Con gastos en educaci6n por mAs de 60%
del programa de gasto estatal, estabilizando la relaci6n maestro-
alumno, producirA una reduccidn de gastos significativa con respecto a
la proyecci6n do gastos en educaci6n, de acuerdo a la pasada practica
de reclutamiento de maestros. En el futuro, el reclutamiento de nuevos
maestros, se realizar6 principalmente para incrementar la relaci6n
maestro/estudiante en escuelas que se encuentren por debajo de la
media nacional. En la prictica esto significar6 que la mayorla de los
65



Gobie,fio CO~ EStO  de                                       " C) d' !
nuevos maestros se destinar6 a escuelas en zonas rurales. Con una
mayor eficiencia en el gasto del sector educativo se sientan las bases
para incentivar la administraci6n escolar por las propias escuelas y
comunidades. Con estos incentivos se busca que el Gobiemo Federal
transfiera a los Estados mayor autoridad en la administraci6n de los
recursos humanos en el sector educaci6n.
- Salud. Incrementaremos el presupuesto para el Instituto de Salud, el
cual sirve a la gente m"s necesitada; incrementaremos las
contribuciones para nuestros servicios de seguridad social asegurando
que las reservas de las pensiones no se empleen para el otorgamiento
de otro tipo de subsidios; haremos mejor uso de la infraestructura,
equipo y personal del sector mediante la coordinaci6n para el uso de
instalaciones del sector entre todas las instituciones pCiblicas de salud y
estableciendo un sistema consolidado para la compra de medicinas.
- Pens lones. Se protegeran las reservas y se expandira la
sustentabilidad financiera del sistema de pensiones del Estado,
mientras se introducen parcialmente sistemas de pensiones de
capitalizaci6n individual. La reforma del sistema de pensiones se
alcanzara por una combinaci6n de:
a) Limitar el uso de los fondos de pensi6n exclusivamente a lOs gastos de
pensi6n, previniendo la desviaci6n de fondos de pensi6n a otros usos.
b) Incrementando Ia tasa de contribuci6n y la edad de retiro gradualmente
para reducir Ia deuda Implicita del sistema en por lo menos 20%.
c) Requiriendo pagar contribuciones por las remuneraciones no incluidas
en el salario base. asignando estos ingresos adicionales a la
acumulaci6n en cuentas individuales.
- Agua. Se adoptarin nuevas regulaciones sobre tarifas y mecanismos
para el cobro efectivo de agua para municipios y organismos
operadores. El Estado inviarh a los municipios para quo
voluntariamente cobren el pago por el suministro de agus en bloque
con las participaciones fedetales. Se establecern la eliminaci6n de
subsidios en el presupuesto estatal para los municipios y organismos
operadores, por lo cual se eliminarOn las transferenclas del
presupuesto del gobiemo estatal a la Comisl6n del Agua del Estado de
M6xico, contribuyendo asi a la reducci6n del deficit fiscal.
- Transporte. El incremento de los recursos del presupuesto para el
mantenimiento de las carreteras, disminuirc el deterioro y reforzar6 la
planeaci6n del transporte, incluyendo la planeaci6n y concesi6n de
nuevas carreteras.
66



GQbiemo W Estoldo Cie M6*co                                   b.r,,.t  ,rI
w~~~   X        @* scut-  vote
Administracl6n financiera estatal. Esta reforma incluye, entre otras
acciones, aquellas destinadas a aumentar la transparencia en materia
de deuda y de gastos, establecer indicadores de desempefio
presupuestal para mejorar la eficiencia y rendici6n de cuentas, y a
mejorar  la  planeacion  del  presupuesto  para  asegurar  la
correspondencia entre el presupuesto aprobado y el ejercido. El nuevo
tope de endeudamiento aprobado por el Congreso, asi como el
requerimiento de informes pen6dicos fortaleceran los equilibrios
constitucionales entre las diferentes ramas del gobiemo y facilitari el
trabajo del Congreso para el cumplimiento de sus atribuciones.
Destinaremos recursos para el mejoramiento de la administraci6n
financiera y particularmente en to referente a la mejoria en el
cumplimiento de compromisos de pago a proveedores. Asimismo,
explotaremos mecanismos para mejorar la adquisici6n de bienes y
servicios por parte del Gobierno Estatal, incluyendo la posibilidad de
usar sistemas computarizados de licitaciones pOiblicas como el
'Compranet" desarrollado por el Goblemo Federal.
IV. Compromiso y capacidad del Estado para realizar las reformas
propuestas.
*   La administraciOn actual del Estado ha estado poco mas de un afo en
funCiones. Le quedan aun cinco sRos pare implementar totalmente las
reformas propuestas y demostrar los beneficios del programa de ajuste.
Conforme a sus atrbuciones, el Congreso del Estado de Mfxico estarh al
corriente del desarrollo del programa de reformas.
*   Finalmente, sabemos que nuestros ciudadanos, otros Estados y el pOiblico
en general estin observando el desempefio del Estado de Mexico.
Estamos determinados a mostrarles el desarrollo exitoso del programa de
reformas.
V. Nocesidades de apoyo del Estado de M6xico para mantener un
crecimlento sustentable.
*   El Estado de Mexico requiere el apoyo federal para realizar las reformas
propuestas. Esta petici6n incluye un pr6stamo de BANOBRAS para
financiar las reformas y un cr6dito complementario para la asistencia
t6cnica (en preparaci6n) necesaria para Ilevar a cabo este programa, el
cual sentarA l.as bases para fortalecer las acciones que se realizan pars
aliviar la pobreza y brindar sustentabilidad fiscal.
. 67



-~~oir de WO     e U
f~~~~         a
*   El apoyo del Gobiemo Federal hart posible la implementaci6n del
programs de reformas del Gobierno del Estado. Esto permitira mejorar la
calidad crediticis del Estado para acceder en mejores condiciones a
recursos financieros requeridos para atender las necesidades de la
poblacibn mis detfavorecida.
Sin otro particular, reitero a usted la seg rid des de mi mas alta y distinguida
consideraci6n.
SUFRAGIO EFEC IV  N  REELECCION
EL GOBERNADOR  0  ST  UCIONAL DEL
ESTAD  D  ME ICO
t ARTURO       T EL ROJAS
C.c.p. Or. Hcor Luna de la Vega, Secretaeo de Finanzas y Planeaci6n.
68



Table 1. State of Mexico-Structural Adjustment Loan (EMSAL)-Matrix of Policy Actions for Tranche Release
BOARD PRESENTATION                                   SECOND TRANCHE                              THIRD TRANCHE
(expected December 2000)                            (expected by July 2001)                  (expected by January 2002)
FISCAL POLICY
The budget of the state for 2001 submitted to the state Congress will The accumulated overall deficit in the 2001  The accumulated overall deficit in the 2001
have a deficit in the overall balance of no more than 0.5 percent of budget as executed through the end of the  budget as executed through the end of the most
ordinary income.'                                           most recent quarter2 will be no more than 0.5  recent quarter will be no more than 0.5 percent
percent of the ordinary income of the state.  of the ordinary income of the state.
The budget of the state for 2002 submitted to the
state Congress will have a surplus in the overall
balance of at least 0.9 percent of ordinary
income.
TAX POLICY AND TAx ADMINISTRATION
The  Government will have  submitted  the  necessary  legal The implementation of tax administration  The tax administration reforms, including the
amendments to the state Congress to:                        reforms, including the sharing of information  sharing of information with the federal social
i) expand the base of the payroll tax to include all remuneration, all with the federal social security administration  security administration, will be on schedule
fiexpand allhemp  basedof the payrollocaxtionof mcldemployrnent, exct and Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico,  according to the plan. A report on the impact of
firms, and all employees based on location of em2loyment, except  is on schedule according to the Acuerdo  the tax administration reforms through the most
for exemptions already granted for years 2000-2001 to new firmsPrgatc.rentqre,icldgchgsinolcin
loae in th  stt.wihwl xieatteedo  aedry    Programatico.                                           recent quarter, including changes in collection
located n the ctate -which will expire at the end of calendar year                                     performance, will be published.
ii) increase the rate of the payroll tax to 2.5 percent.
iii) introduce a new, simplified rate structure for the annual state fee
for cars (Tenencia) that increases the average fee to $300 per
vehicle, and an automatic mechanism for inflation indexation.
The budget of the state (Inciativa de Ley de Ingresos) for 2001
submitted to the state Congress will have incorporated the above-
mentioned reforms in its revenue projections.
The Secretary of Finance has issued an Acuerdo Programatico
adopting a plan  for shifting tax administration resources from
collection (recaudaci6n) to enforcement (fiscalizaci6n), including
the closure of additional state tax collection offices, reallocating and
retraining personnel for enforcement work, sharing information with
the federal social security system, and streamlining payment of car
fees.
(November 9, 2000-12:32pm)                                         69



BOARD PRESENTATION                                   SECOND TRANCHE                              THIRD TRANCHE
(expected December 2000)                           (expected by July 2001)                   (expected by JanuarY 2002)
ASSET MANAGEMENT AND CAPITAL REVENUE
The budget of the state (Iniciativa de Ley de Ingresos) for 2001  The Government will have completed  an  The  Government will have reported  to
submitted to the state Congress will have incorporated a revenue  inventory of its physical assets subject to  Congress the progress in commercialization of
projection  of  at  least  MXP  200  million  from  the  commercialization, including their book value  assets.
commercialization (that is, sale, lease, or concession to private  and legal status, and will have published a five-  At least 100 percent of the revenue from asset
management) of state assets.                              year plan for their commercialization.      commercialization projected in the approved
The Government will have completed  an  State budget for 2001 will have been realized.
appraisal process to determine the estimated  The budget of the state (Iniciativa de Ley de
market value of all the assets subject to  Ingresos) for 2002 submitted to the state
commercialization.                          Congress will have incorporated a revenue
The Government will have amended the internal  projection of at least MxP 200 million from
regulations  of  the  Secretary  of  Public  the commercialization of state assets.
Administration (Secretaria de Administraci6n)
as necessary to establish a new unit responsible
for  integral  asset management  and  for
implementation of the five year plan for
commercialization.
At least 35 percent of the revenue from asset
commercialization projected in the approved
State budget for 2001 will have been realized.
(November 9, 2000-12:32pm)                                         70



BOARD PRESENTATION                                    SECOND TRANCHE                               THIRD TRANCHE
(expected December 2000)                             (expected by July 2001)                   (expected by January 2002)
EDUCATION
The 2001  budget (Iniciativa de Presupuesto  de Egresos)  The Government has submitted to the state  The 2002 budget submitted to Congress will
submitted to Congress will include:                        Congress a draft bill (Proyecto de Ley de  include:
i) a real, per-student expenditure in education that will be not Planeaci6n) requiring, inter alia, that the annual  i) a real, per-student expenditure in education
less than the comparable expenditure in the approved budget for  state budget includes:                 that will not be less than the comparable
the year 2000.                                             i) specific performance and impact indicators for  expenditure in the approved budget for the
ii) specific teacher recruitment targets based upon pre-determined  the education sector (sistema de evaluaci6n de  year 2001.
efficiency and quality standards. 3                        gasto publico).                              ii) teacher recruitment targets based upon pre-
iii) specific performance indicators for the education sector as  ii) the timing for the publication of semi-annual  defined efficiency and quality standards.3
defined in the System for Public Expenditure Evaluation.4  reports on actual outcomes in the education  The Secretaria de Educaci6n has launched the
sector as per the above-mentioned performance  implementation of a pilot program  for the
iv) provisions to guarantee that the monthly savings accrued in  and impact indicators.                 introduction of modern teaching methods in
the execution of education budget by the state Secretaria de  iii) provisions to set a schedule for automatic  science classes in selected urban and rural
Educaci6n will be retained by that Secretaria.             transfer of the  education  sector's  budget  primary,   secondary   and   preparatory
v) provisions requiring that the execution of the education sector allocation to the Secretaria de Educacion and to  (preparatorias) schools.
budget follows a published and unified Annual Operational Plan  guarantee that the monthly savings accrued in
(Programa Operativo Anual) that includes both the state and  the execution of education budget by the state
federal (educaci6nfederalizada) education sub-sectors within the  Secretaria de Educacion will be retained by that
state.                                                     Secretaria.
Instruccion del Grupo Intersecretarial de
Financiamiento has been issued requiring that
the Secretaria de Educacion adopts and
implements under its own responsibility, one
and the same integrated personnel management
system (Sistema Integral de Administraci6n de
Personal)  for  both  state  and  federal
(federalizados) teachers.
(November 9, 2000-12:32pm)                                           71



BOARD PRESENTATION                                 SECOND TRANCHE                              THIRD TRANCHE
(expected December 2000)                          (expected by July 2001)                  (expected by January 2002)
HEALTH
The 2001 budget submitted to Congress will increase the budget The government has issued regulations by  Contribution rates for ISSEMyM health services
of the Secretariat of Health of the State of Mexico (SSEM) by at which funding for health services (hospitals)  will have been raised by at least 4 percentage
least two percent in real terms compared to 2000 and will provide  offered by the State Program for Integrated  points (2 percentage point from employer and 2
funding for ISSEMyM  health so that no funds for health  Family  Development  (DIFEM)  will be  percentage point from employee) from levels as
operations need to be taken from the pension fund.       separated  from  the  rest  of  DIFEM's  of October 2000.
expenditures and will be transferred directly to  The 2002 budget submitted to Congress will
SSEM.                                    increase the allocation for SSEM   by at least
The Government will have published and  four percent in real terms compared to the 2000
initiated implementation of a plan for cost budget (including the health related  funds
recovery and efficient utilization of existing  formerly allocated to DIFEM). The SSEM and
capacity for health care by SSEM  and  ISSEMyM   will  have  consolidated  their
ISSEMyM, including sale of services to each  purchases of basic medicines.
other and to the private sector.         Implementation of the cost recovery and higher
utilization plan in SSEM and ISSEMYM will
have proceeded on schedule according to plan.
(November 9, 2000-12:32pm)                                        72



BOARD PRESENTATION                                 SECOND TRANCHE                             THIRD TRANCHE
(expected December 2000)                          (expected by July 2001)                 (expected by JanuarV 2002)
PENSIONS
The state Government will have issued regulations that:  ISSEMyM will demonstrate compliance with  ISSEMyM  will demonstrate compliance with
i) direct ISSEMyM  to maintain, and publish semi-annually, the new regulations.                  the new regulations.
separate accounts for pensions, health and contributions and  The state Government will have submitted to  The second semi-annual reports on the accounts
expenditures as designated in the Social Security Law;  Congress a law proposal that will:        of the pension system and on the investment
ii) direct ISSEMyM to employ pension-related funds only for  i) reduce the implicit pension debt of the state  performance of the pension reserve fund will
pension-related expenditures, with any shortfall in the health and  by at least 20 percent over its value at the end  have been published.
other categories to be covered by the general Government budget of 2000 through, inter alia, reduced benefits
on a transitional basis until 2003.                     and increased retirement ages.
iii) direct ISSEMyM  to review and identify amendments, if ii) require contributions to be paid on the non-
needed, to the regulation governing the Supervisory Board and  salary portion of the remuneration (on a
investment limits for ISSEMYM'S reserves in order to prevent mandatory basis for new entrant workers and
their use in support of the state budget.                on a voluntary basis for other workers) with
iv) require the Government to pay all ISSEMyM contributions  these   contributions    designated   for
iv )                                                     accumulation on  individual accounts in the
AFORE  system.  State  and  municipal
v) establish procedures for semi-annual public disclosure of employers will be required to pay half of those
investment performance of the pension reserve fund.      contributions for employees participating in
the new system.
iii) allow workers who leave the ISSEMyM
pension system the right to receive a prorated
pension upon reaching retirement age
The state Government will have approached
the Federal Government and neighboring
states to negotiate agreements of reciprocal
recognition and transferability of pension
rights for workers moving across those
government entities.
The first semi-annual reports on the accounts
of the pension system and on the investment
performance of the pension reserve fund will
have been published.
(November 9, 2000-12:32pm)                                        73



BOARD PRESENTATION                                     SECOND TRANCHE                                THIRD TRANCHE
(expected December 2000)                             (expected by July 2001)                     (expected by January 2002)
WATER
An Administrative Agreement between the State's Secretaries of All water supply agreements between the  CAEM  will be applying the pricing guidelines
Finance and Planning and of Urban Development and Public  municipal water companies and the CAEM   issued in the Regulations of the Water Law.
Works and the CAEM (Comnision de Agua del Esiado de Mexico)  signed after November 16, 2000 will have
will have been signed and become effective and would include:   included the provisions agreed as conditions  The budget ofthe state for 2001 as executed will
i) a provision forbidding CAEM (Comisi6n de Agua del Estado  of Board presentation and will have been  transfers for investments that will be specifically
de Mexico) from  entering  or renegotiating  water supply  implemented satisfactorily.                   included in the public investment program of the
agreements (Convenios de Suministro de Agua) with municipal  The Regulations for the Water Law will have  state.
water companies (Organismos Operadores) if those agreements  been issued before February 28, 2001 and  The budget of the state for 2002 submitted to the
do not include the authorization by the municipality(ies) in  include:                                   The Conget of         include:
question for the state to employ as a source of payment the  . a             .o.istate Congress will include:
municipality's(ies')     federally-allocated      transfers  A) a provlsion forbiddMig CAM (Comision de  i) no transfers to CAEM other than transfers for
(Participaciones) in order to pay any overdue balance that regua del Estado de M     pxlco) from entering    investments that will be specifically included in
its(their) water company may owe to CAEM for water delivered   eegotiating   water  supply  agreements in the public investment program of the state
after January 1, 2001                                       (Convenios de Suministro de Agua) with  tepbi  netetpormo h  tt
after January 1, 2001                          municipal water  companies  (Organismos  ii) an increase of at least 6 percent in real water
ii) a provision obliging the state to a) whenever the water supply  Operadores) if those agreements do not rates charged by CAEM relative to the rates in
agreement so authorizes, use the relevant muncipality's(ies')  include   the   authorization    by   the  effect in October 2,000.
federally-allocated  transfers (Participaciones) to  settle any  municipality(ies) in question for the state to  The State will have published a report detailing
overdue balance that its water company may owe to CAEM; b) to  employ  as  a  source  of payment the  the status of all municipal water companies'
immediately transfer those amounts to CAEM; and c) to publish  municipality'(sies')  federally-allocated  accounts with CALM, as well as the amounts,
semi-annual reports detailing the status of all municipal water  transfers (Participaciones) in order to pay any  accountspwity, of  fellly-amocated
companies' accounts with CAEM, as well as the amounts, per  overdue balance that its(their) water company  per   municpality,   of   federally-allocated
municipality, of federally-allocated municipal transfers used by  may owe to CAEM  for water delivered after  municipal transfers employed as a source of
the State to settle overdue balances of those companies with  January 1, 2001                           payments by the State to settle overdue balances
CAEM for water delivered after January 1, 2001                       ,                                  of those companies with CALM.
,               ~~~~~ii) a provision  obliging  the state to  a)  CL    ilhv   ulse  t  uie  iaca
The budget of the state for 2001 submitted to the state Congress  whenever the water supply agreement so  CAEM will have pubhshed its audited financial
will include:                                               authorizes,     use      the       relevant  accounts for at least the first half of 2001
i) no transfers to CALM other than transfers for investments that  muncipality's(ies')  federally-allocated  (including a break-down of its costs into own
i) o tanfer toCAM oherthn tanser fo inesmens tattransfers  (Participaciones)  to  settle  any  operational expenses, investment and technical
will be specifically included in the public investment program of   ans   balance that its waterompany    assistance) and its operational and financial
the state.                                                  oPYfe balaneM   ba to water          tranysfe  plans for 2002, including measures necessary to
ii) an increase of at least 3 percent in real tenns in water rates  those amounts to CAEM; and c) to publish  comply with the federal government's effective
currently charged by CALM                                   semi-annual reports detailing the status of all  policy regarding charges by CNA  (Comision
municipal water companies' accounts with  Nacional de Agua).
CAEM, as well as the amounts, per
municipality, of federally-allocated municipal
transfers used by the State to settle overdue
balances of those companies with CAEM for
water delivered after January 1, 2001
(November 9, 2000-12:32pm)                                            74



BOARD PRESENTATION                                  SECOND TRANCHE                              THIRD TRANCHE
(expected December 2000)                          (expected by July 2001)                   (expected by January 2002)
WATER (continued)                                        iii) pricing guidelines for CAEM and for the  The Government will have submitted to the state
municipal  water  companies  that  foster  Congress a draft law establishing an independent
financial sustainability, water preservation,  State Water Supply and Sanitation Agency in
metered consumption, and rationalization of charge of regulating and supervising water
consumer subsidies                       provision.
iv) provisions whereby CAEM is required to  The debt recovery plan has been implemented as
cover costs for all services provided to the  per schedule.
state, municipalities, organismos operadores
or third parties.
v) general guidelines for  operational and
financial reporting standards (including cost
accounting) to be followed by CAEM.
The State will have launched an on-demand
Technical Assistance Program to help water
municipal companies i) apply the pricing
guidelines issued in the Regulations of the
Water Law, and ii) improve the quality and
sustainability of their services.
The state has issued regulations for the Water
Law identifying ways for the private sector to
participate in water provision including
Contratos Integrales de Administraci6n and
concessions.
The State published a report detailing the
status of all municipal water companies'
accounts with CAEM, as well as the amounts,
per  municipality,  of  federally-allocated
municipal transfers withheld by the State to
settle overdue balances of those companies
with CAEM.
The State completed a plan to establish an
independent  State  Water  Supply  and
Sanitation Agency with powers to regulate
and supervise water provision.
CAEM has elaborated and presented to the
Secretaries of Finance and Planning and of
Urban Development and Public Works a plan
for debt recovery to be implemented over the
next three years.
(November 9, 2000-12:32pm)                                         75



BOARD PRESENTATION                                   SECOND TRANCHE                               THIRD TRANCHE
(expected December 2000)                            (expected by July 2001)                   (expected by January 2002)
ROAD TRANSPORT
At least 70 percent of road-related expenditures included in the  The Secretaria de Transporte will have  At least 70 percent of road-related expenditures
budget submitted to Congress for 2001 will be earmarked for  published:                               included in the budget submitted to Congress for
maintenance.5                                              i) an inventory of highways, includig their  2002 will be earmarked for maintenance.
planned and actual use and the condition of  The government will have published a five year
their maintenance.                        plan for improved highway maintenance and
ii) a report on the financial situation of concessions.
highway concessions.
iii) a plan for institutional strengthening of the
state Secretaria de Transporte.
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATUION AND RELATIONS WITH
MUNICIPALITIES                                             The state Government has submitted to the  The execution of the state budget in 2001
The budget of the state for 2001 submitted to the state Congress  state Congress a draft bill for the new Ley de  contained   no   discretionary  transfers  to
will include:                                              Planeacion requiring:                      municipalities.
i) a minimum of 85 percent of total expenditures specified as  i) the monitoring and publishing detailed  The budget of the state for 2002 submitted to the
projects in the program budgeting structure.  Allocations not quarterly  reports  on  budget  execution  state Congress will include:
specified as projects will be distributed according to specific  (revenue, expenditure and debt) and on the  i)aminimumof90percentoftotalexpenditures
allocation rules previously established by Congress;       distribution, municipality by municipality, of  minimum  ofecent  oftal expend
..                  .   .                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~fiund allocations for education, transport, and  specified as projects in the program budgeting
ii) no  funds that can be used for discretionary transfers to  fn   loain  o  dcto,tasot  n   structure. Allocations not specified as projects
municipalities;6                                           emergency relief for natural disasters     will be  distributed  according  to  specific
iii. provisions for monitoring and publishingdetailedquarter ii) all intra-year reforms to the approved  allocation  rules  previously  established  by
iii) provisions for monitoring and publishing detailed quarterly  budget preserve the same overall balance as in  Congress;
reports on budget execution (revenue, expenditure and debt) and  tbudget  initil  sappoved bylCngessf i)    fundstf
on the distribution, municipality by municipality, of fimd  the budget tnitially approved by Congress for  ii) no fmnds that can be used for discretional
allocations for education, transport, and emergency relief for  Y  ,                                  transferstomunicipalities.
natural disasters;'                                        ii) fuiture budgets be prepared, presented and
iv) authorization for the Government to automatically adopt an  executed as program budgeting;        municipal expenditure distribution through the
emergency expenditure rationalization plan were total revenues  iii) the state implement a system of integrated  end of the most recent quarter have been
to fall below 5 per cent of estimated revenues in the approved  financial   management   that   includes  submitted to Congress.
budget.                                                    accounting, budgeting and monitoring  of
physical execution of investments
The Government will submit a draft bill to
Congress to amend the Ley Organica de la
Administraci6n   Publica   so  that  the
management of state personnel is assumed by
the corresponding sector of the administration.
(November 9, 2000-12:32pm)                                           76



BOARD PRESENTATION                                 SECOND TRANCHE                             THIRD TRANCHE
(expected December 2000)                         (expected by July 2001)                  (expected by January 2002)
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION AND RELATIONS WITH             The execution of the state budget through the
MUNICIPALITIES (continued)                              end of the most recent quarter of 2001 will
contain  no  discretionary  transfers  to
municipalities.
The Government will have posted on the
internet quarterly reports, through the end of
the most recent quarter, detailing  i) the
budget as executed (compared with the budget
approved) and ii) the amount and terms of all
outstanding debt (including the floating debt,
categorized by the time outstanding for
accounts payable, namely over 30 days, over
60 days, and over 90 days), and it will
continue such quarterly reporting.
Quarterly reports will have been published on
the distribution according to municipality of
budget expenditures on education, transport,
and relief from natural disasters.
PUBLIC DEBT
The budget of the state for 2001 submitted to the state   The Government will have reduced the   The budget of the state for 2002 submitted to the
Congress will have an explicit nominal net borrowing8 ceiling   stock of floating debt by at least 20 percent   state Congress will have an explicit nominal net
equivalent to no more than 5 percent of ordinary income (to   relative to the stock existing on December   borrowing ceiling not higher than the reduction
finance the overall deficit and to settle floating debt),9 and a   31, 2000.                     of floating debt.
requirement for the government to report quarterly to congress                                   The Government will have reduced the stock
the amount and terms of all debt outstanding.                                                    of floating debt by at least 40 percent relative
The proposed budget for 2001 will provide for a reduction of                                     to the stock existing on December 31, 2000.
the stock of floating debt of at least 40 percent by December                                    The proposed budget for 2002 will provide for
31,2001.Tepooe  ugtfr 02wl rvd  o
3 1, 2001.                                                                                     a reduction of the stock of floating debt by at
least 80 percent relative to the stock existing
on December 31, 2000.
(November 9, 2000-12:32pm)                                       77



Table Notes:
Unless otherwise specified, "the state" and "the government" refers to the executive branch of the State of Mexico, and "Congress" refers to that of the State of
Mexico. TBD means To Be Determined.
1.  Ordinary income is defined as current plus capital income minus "extraordinary transfers" from the federation (ordinary transfers are those that the federal
Congress allocates by state or by formulae; all other transfers are considered "extraordinary". The overall balance is the difference between ordinary income
and all expenditures (including loans and transfers to other public or private entities).
2. "Quarter" refers to calendar quarters: January-March, April-June, July-September, and October-December.
3. The standards will include, inter alia, (i) teacher recruitment rates that do not reduce the average student-to-teacher ratio at each level of schooling (basic,
secondary, technical, higher education) below present ratio; (ii) no teacher recruitment (of either new or transferring teachers) in schools whose student-to-
teacher ratio is already higher than the federal standard; and (iii) adoption by the Secretary of Education of a teacher certification test for all newly recruited
teachers.
4.  Education performance indicators will include, inter alia, (i) percentage of students that complete school year within regular school calendar, per level of
education; (ii) student repetition rate, per level of education; (iii) student desertion rate, per level of education; (iv) average number of weekly hours
effectively taught by teacher, per level of education.
5. Maintenance expenditures are restricted to: (i) routine conservation to keep roads in operating conditions during each calendar year, (ii) corrective
conservation scheduled every 2 to 3 years to improve road surface, (iii) road rehabilitation, including actions to repair major damage in road surface but
excluding damage to lower layers of road structure, (iv) road reconstruction, including total or partial repair of major structural damage and reconstruction of
lower layers of road structure, (v) road modernization, including geometrical features of road structure, signaling, drainage, terraces and bases, (vi)
reconstruction and rehabilitation of pedestrian and vehicle bridges.
6. A discretionary transfer is one in which the executive allocates funding without the specific guidance of a congressionally approved formula.
7. Disaster relief funds would be allocated as matching grants in a pre-specified ratio with federal disaster relief funds, which are now specified within an
insurance scheme.
8.  Net borrowing refers any new issuance of debt and obligations minus amortization of principal.
9. Floating debt is defined as the sum of ADEFAS and Accounts Payable (Cuentas por pagar), as defined by the Treasury Departrnent.
(November 9, 2000-12:32pm)                                                 78



SECRETARIAT OF THE TREASURY AND PUBLIC CREDIT
PRIVATE SECRETARIAT
101-                                             November 13, 2000
Mexico D.F.
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
With regard to the loan to support the Financial Rehabilitation Program of the State of
Mexico that the Federation is to contract with the World Bank (WB)-the aim of which is to
rehabilitate the State's finances through sectoral reforms designed to streamline expenditure and
boost public revenue-I should like to draw your attention to certain aspects of the economy and
of the macroeconomic policies that the country is pursuing. In particular, I wish to point out the
major steps being taken by the Government of Mexico to foster federalism, in the sense of
encouraging the states to strengthen their management capacity and respond more directly to the
needs of their populations. Further, I refer to the proposal of the State of Mexico to reform its
internal finances in order to participate more intensively in the benefits that the new federalism
affords.
I. The Macroeconomic Situation
Successful application of balanced economic policies enabled the Mexican economy to
meet the macroeconomic targets that the present Government had set itself at the beginning of
the year and in some cases even to surpass them. As a result, Mexico retained its position as one
of the most dynamic economies in Latin America. Success in these areas strengthened Mexico's
capacity to withstand downturns in international markets, a feature that distinguished it from
other emerging economies. Thus, gross domestic product is expected to grow by approximately
7 percent in 2000, surpassing the 4.5 percent target set at the beginning of the year. This will
take the annual average rate of growth of GDP for 1996-2000 to approximately 5 percent. For
2001, the GDP growth projection is approximately 4 percent.
By end-2000, the Mexican economy will have grown for 18 consecutive semesters, an
expansion that has led to substantial increases in employment. The open unemployment rate
(OUR) averaged 2.5 percent in 1999, and in January-June 2000 it was 2.26 percent, 0.49 of a
percentage point below the figure for the same period the year before. The present semester's
OUR is the lowest since this indicator began to be recorded in 1985.
Fiscal policy has encouraged growth in domestic saving, freeing up additional resources
for private investment and contributing to a reduction in inflation and interest rates, as well as
maintaining a current account deficit compatible with the availability of long-term external
79



savings. In 1999, the public sector deficit was equivalent to 1.14 percent of gross domestic
product, which was lower than the (1.25 percent of GDP) ceiling authorized by Congress on the
basis of projections for the year. In January-June 2000, the public sector accounts showed a
surplus of 23,124 million pesos, a 46.4 percent increase in real terms over the figure for the same
period last year and an amount in line with this year's public sector deficit target of 1.0 percent
of GDP.
This surge in economic activity and growth of employment took place in a context of
reduced inflation. The rate of inflation in 1999 was 12.3 percent, over 0.5 of a percentage point
below the projected rate. Likewise, through October of this year, accumulated inflation totaled
6.9 percent, which suggests that the year could end with inflation lower than the projected 10
percent.
With respect to the external debt, favorable trends on international financial markets
meant that by April Mexico was able to complete the whole of its external debt refinancing
program for 2000, and in August 2000 it prepaid all its pending financial obligations to the
International Monetary Fund. The improvement in public sector finances in 1999 led to a 2.7
percentage points drop in total net public debt as a percentage of GDP. In the first six months of
2000, total external public debt fell by 0.8 of a percentage point compared to the figure for end-
1999 and was equivalent to 24.0 percent of GDP.
External sector outcomes were also satisfactory. In 1999, the current account deficit in
the balance of payments amounted to US$14,012.8 million (2.8 percent of GDP). In first quarter
2000, the current account deficit was US$4,203.4 million, a level compatible with inflows from
foreign direct investment in the country and in line with the end-of-year target (3.1 percent of
GDP). This was the result of Banco de Mexico's tight monetary policy, greater stability in
financial markets, and fiscal discipline.
In light of these results, the performance of the Mexican economy this year suggests that
it has entered the new millennium on a solid footing, thereby ensuring a smooth transition to the
new administration.
II. Federalism as the Guideline for Economic Policy
The strengthening of federalism has been one of the pillars on which the present
administration has sought to consolidate the economy and democratic institutions. Our goal,
when this Administration started, was to progress to a new kind of federalism based on a
thoroughgoing redistribution of jurisdictions, responsibilities, and Federal Government funds to
state and municipal authorities. Renewal of the federal covenant has revitalized the governments
of the federative entities and municipalities.
The path pursued by Mexico has consisted of: (i) endowing subnational authorities with
more funds and wider responsibilities; (ii) increasing the transparency of intergovernmental
transfers and, in general, of federal public expenditure in subnational entities; and (iii)
consolidating a regulatory system, based on market mechanisms, to oversee borrowing by states
and municipalities.
80



In addition to the traditional revenue sharing system (participaciones) that has been in
force since 1980, the Mexican Government has delegated responsibility for education and health
to the states and has transferred the corresponding funds to them (aportaciones). Transfers to the
municipalities have also been increased. All this has benefited the subnational entities, since
they can now predict their revenue and plan allocations.
The federalized funds to be channeled to states and municipalities in 2000 through
aportaciones, participaciones, and decentralization agreements will increase by 5.9 percent in
real terms, compared to 1999. This year total federalized funds amount to 60.3 percent of the
federal revenues available for sharing, compared to 47.3 percent in 1994. Thus, well over half
federal revenues are reimbursed to the governments of the federative entities and to the
municipalities to be used as they choose, independently of the funds that local governments raise
on their own.
Generally, the funds provided to states and municipalities are distributed according to
clear and transparent criteria.   The traditional sharing system  follows well-established
procedures. Distribution of federal contributions for social infrastructure, strengthening of
municipalities, and public safety is also tied to formulas that take into account such factors as the
target population and the extent to which it is underprivileged. Sectoral programs offered by the
Federal Government based on counterpart funds and intergovernmental performance agreements
are governed by formulas or eligibility criteria vrTitten into the Federal Budget and published in
detail in the Federation gazette, the Diario Oficial. Transparency in the allocation of federal
funds was boosted in 1999-2000, by almost completely eliminating discretional transfers to
subnational governments and by the creation of a Fund to cover emergencies, with clearly
established rules to ensure that the funds may be tapped only in the event of natural disasters. In
1999, discretional transfers amounted to less than 0.15 percent of federal expenditure and it is
expected that they can be kept to less than that percentage in 2000. At the same time, there was
an increase in the number of federative entities reforming or updating the legal framework for
public finance, so that most of them now have a Public Debt Law, a Budget Law, and quarterly
public finance reports. All these measures provide an incentive to states and municipalities to
respect fiscal accountability and allocate public expenditure more efficiently, while fiscal
stability is maintained at the federal level.
Thanks to this strengthening of fiscal transfers and of the accounting and budgetary
instruments of the subnational entities, fewer states showed primary and financial deficits.
Consequently, there was a reduction in the stock of total public debt as well as in the debt
burden, measured as a percentage of the states' total revenue. Total state debt fell 24 percent in
real terms in 1995-1999, and the debt in real terms fell for all except three of the entities.
Nevertheless, more and better data were needed regarding the fiscal positions of the states and
municipalities in order to enhance their access to fresh funding. The new standards for recording
subnational debt adopted in 1999-2000 have helped to improve the data and disseminate
information on the federative entities' debt position.
The reforms of 1999 and 2000 successfully implemented an innovative system based on
market mechanisms to regulate subnational borrowNing and encourage prudence by both the
financial institutions granting the loans and the subnational governments contracting them. The
81



WB provided Mexico with technical and financial assistance in developing these policies
through a Decentralization Adjustment Loan (DAL, 1999) for US$600 million.
III. Decentralization Policy: the road ahead
The current Administration has continued working on the decentralization agenda with a
medium- and long-term strategy. It has implemented the rules and incentives needed to ensure
that subnational entities practice fiscal discipline. Now it is a question of supporting their
adaptation to the new borrowing framework and to intergovernmental fiscal relations. The
Federal Government is continuing to work closely with the state governments in order to identify
more precisely the problems they face and, where appropriate, to find possible solutions. The
immediate challenge is to show states how they can effectively adjust their income, expenditure,
and borrowing policies in ways that will increase the efficiency and guarantee the sustainability
of the services they provide. States and municipalities are thus becoming the focal point of the
institution building required for decentralization. Once this institutional strengthening has been
demonstrated and consolidated, and is gradually extended to more and more federative entities
and municipalities, further-reaching sectoral decentralization reforms can be implemented, at the
federal, state, and municipal levels.
The immediate focus of the programs to support the states' efforts to adjust to the new
borrowing and intergovernmental transfers framework is on: (i) boosting the revenue-raising
capacity of states and municipalities; (ii) regularization and financing of their floating and
contingent liabilities; (iii) reinforcing their ability to set clear expenditure priorities; (iv) creating
a set of incentives designed to increase efficiency through management emphasis on
performance and results; and (v) increasing the level of transparency in the financial
administration of each state.
IV. Federation Support for Mexico State's Reform Program
The Mexico State reform program to be backed by the Federal Government is described
in detail in the attached policy letter of the Governor of Mexico State, Mr. Arturo Montiel Rojas.
In particular, the Federal Government would like to underscore the following reforms that are
expected to enhance fiscal sustainability in ways that are also applicable to other states:
> The effort to raise fiscal revenue by broadening the tax base and increasing the wage tax.
> The safeguarding of expenditure on health and education in a way that is compatible with
more efficient use of resources in both sectors. These reforms pave the way for greater state
autonomy in the education sector.
> Reform of the pension system, including opening up the state pension system to new
individual capitalization systems, encouraging portability of pensions and establishing
precedents for pension reforms in other states.
> The introduction of effective mechanisms for collecting water rates. This will facilitate
reform of collection practices at the federal and municipal levels.
> Increased transparency in financial management.
> The establishment of new ceilings on borrowing, especially with respect to the floating debt,
and of new practices in management of the state debt and the dissemination of information
about it.
82



We believe that this reform program will strengthen the State's finances, enhance the
government's management capacity, and foster poverty reduction. At the national level, these
reforms will contribute to macroeconomic stability, a key factor for successful implementation of
poverty reduction measures. In addition, the reforms will increase revenues that the State of
Mexico will earmark for social programs for the poor: for instance, for schools with fewer
teachers per pupil than the national average and for health programs for people who are not
employed in the formal sector.
Federation support for this program is based, among other considerations, on the impact
of the State's finances on the national macroeconomic framework; the evident commitment of
the government of the State of Mexico to the reform program, and the potential demonstration
effect on other states.
V. World Bank Support
The consolidation of federalism is an irreversible process complementing Mexico's
macroeconomic reform  program.   So far significant progress has been made with
decentralization. Nevertheless, Mexico has to continue its efforts to improve public finance in
the regions.
It is against this backdrop that the Federal Government requests the World Bank's
technical and financial assistance for the fiscal and financial adjustment program of the State of
Mexico. This Federal Government program aims to support the structural adjustment and debt
restructuring policies of the State of Mexico and to improve its credit rating and access to funds.
This same support effort will establish guidelines for increasing the autonomy, fiscal
responsibility, and transparency of subnational governments in their resource allocation
decisions, improving the performance of state and municipal credit markets, and strengthening
the financial management capacity of subnational governments in administering public funds.
World Bank support will help to consolidate the reforms that the World Bank already
supported with the above-mentioned Decentralization Adjustment Loan and, in general, to
reinforce the decentralization process in Mexico.
Sincerely,
[EFFECTIVE VOTING. NO RE-ELECTION]
The Secretary
Angel Gurria
83






Toluca de Lerdo, Mexico
November 10, 2000
Lic. Jose Angel Gurria Trevinlo
Secretary of the Treasury and Public Credit
By hand
Dear Mr. Gurria,
It is my pleasure to inform you that, as one of its objectives under the 1999-2005 State
Development Plan, the Government of State of Mexico intends to carry out a public finance
reform program aimed at improving its financial position, strengthening its management
capacity, and streamlining its provision of infrastructure and public services. The Government
of the State wishes to count on the support of the Federal Government, through Banobras, in
order to ensure that the reform program is successfully implemented. To that end, I enclose a
description of the main steps undertaken so far and of the reform program we wish to embark
upon.
i.    Achievements of the State of Mexico in the traditional fiscal context
The State of Mexico operated successfully within the Federation-State framework that
characterized Mexican federalism until the 1990s. In those days the State and the Federation
were closely involved with one another, sharing in policy design and execution, with the
Federation cofinancing or subsidizing state and municipal activities. Federal Government
policies were partly designed to address the fiscal and financial challenges posed by the
country's most important state in terms of population and gross domestic product. Federal
transfers to some extent helped balance the State's fiscal accounts and when financing was
required the State's access to credit was facilitated by guarantees based on the federal
participaciones system.
The population of the State of Mexico is estimated to be over 13 million. It grows by
approximately 1,000 people a day, or 350,000 per year (the average population of a medium-
sized city in Latin America). State of Mexico has devised and implemented social and
infrastructure policies to cater to the needs of the fastest growing population of any state in the
country, while simultaneously attracting large (national and international) investments, which
have created a solid productive base in the State.
In response to massive domestic migration inflows, the State of Mexico had to develop
its own educational system to cover areas that the federal system failed to reach. The State's
own cultural diversity was multiplied by the arrival of people from every state in the land. The
cultural and geographical dispersion of the population was addressed by a diversified education
system, which reached out to every corner of the State. By allocating a substantial portion of
budget funds to payment of teachers and other investments in education, the state achieved high
enrollment levels in urban and rural areas, and higher teacher/pupil ratios than the national
85



average. When decentralization of the Federal Basic Education System began, the State's per
capita expenditure on education was, and remains to this day, among the highest in the whole of
Mexico. The expansion of teacher training courses ensured a regular supply of teachers, who
were recruited into the state education system when they graduated from teachers' college.
Parallel social security systems provide health care for public and private sector
employees, and the State Health Institute delivers basic health care for workers in the informal
sector and for the underprivileged, as well as those in the Integral Development of the Family
Program. Although, in percentage terms, the poverty registered in the State is below the national
average, due to the size of its population the State of Mexico has more people living below the
poverty line than any other state in the country.
The State has accorded priority to provision of infrastructure. With Federal Government
participation, the State of Mexico has built the largest highway network of any state in the
country. The State guarantees water and sanitation facilities even to communities unlikely to be
able to pay for them, and it is also the first source of aid in the event of natural disasters.
II.    The State of Mexico's new fiscal and financial environment
The State Government is aware that the situation described above has changed radically
in the past seven years and will continue to change in the years to come. Hallmarks of the new
environment will be greater autonomy for the State, less dependence on national authorities, and
increased responsibilities for subnational governments. Under these circumstances, the State
must immediately begin strengthening its fiscal and financial autonomy. In particular, the State
of Mexico expects revision of the Federal Fiscal Pact to lead to an expansion of the State's
capacity through an increase in its own funds and to adequate compensation for the high
educational outlays of the State Government.
Immediate fiscal and financial challenges require that state finances adapt to the new
regulatory framework governing credit operations, as well as restoration of access to credit
markets on favorable terms and conditions. For that to be possible, the State needs to trim the
fiscal deficit and to begin to rebuild its own sustainable investment capacity. It also needs to
reschedule its debt and to ensure that debt servicing is compatible with fiscal equilibrium. In
order to implement an appropriate investment program, the State of Mexico has to reverse the
trend toward high indebtedness and increasing debt servicing.
The State of Mexico can no longer rely on special federal transfers to balance the state
budget, as it did in the past. Consequently, debt-servicing requirements have to be kept to an
appropriate proportion of the State's primary balance, and the floating debt has to be pared down
to a reasonable proportion of total expenditure. The State of Mexico will raise revenues to
ensure payment of state pensions and other contingent liabilities. The State must also take full
advantage of its sources of own funds, while efforts to promote greater fiscal autonomy are under
way. If the state wishes to maintain a high level of private investment and gradually to expand
high tech services industries, public investment programs have to be sustained, taxes must be
kept neutral and efficient, and transaction costs have to be kept to the minimum.
86



The challenge we face is to expand infrastructure and the provision of public services for
development and to establish a clear division of responsibilities among the different levels of
government. The State of Mexico has to improve its systems for monitoring revenue and charge
municipalities bulk water rates. This should increase the possibilities of reforming the federal
fiscal pact in a way that meets the state's expectations.
The State is aware that efforts are being made to decentralize federal expenditure and
strengthen the administrative autonomy of the municipalities. Federal transfers earmarked for
the municipalities have groxvn significantly in the past three years under Ramo 33 aportaciones.
The 1999 amendment of Article 115 of the Constitution guarantees local autonomy in the
municipal budget, tax policy, and administration. The State is ready to pursue these Federal
Government policies in two ways: reducing its own subsidies to the municipalities and raising
the effectiveness of its own transfers to municipalities. This will strengthen the ability to plan
the state budget and help to generate a fiscal surplus.
III.   Adjustments policies and actions undertaken by the State of Mexico
As Governor, I should like to inform you of the reform policies and actions that State of
Mexico has decided to pursue as part of its short and long-term strategy for efficient and
sustainable delivery of social services in infrastructure. The reform program consists of an ample
spectrum of reforms at state level that are compatible with the changes in fiscal and financial
policy currently being introduced, including reforms at the federal and local levels and changes
in the relations between the three levels of government.
The State of Mexico is fostering and adopting policies that: (i) adapt it to the new
financial environment for the State's operations; (ii) develop better federal and sectoral fiscal
coordination with the municipalities; and (iii) prepare it in advance and sufficiently for the
ongoing process of federalization aimed at strengthening state autonomy. The State recognizes
the value of the above-mentioned policies, such as those in the water sector, being novel and
useful for possible adoption by other states.
The State's economic and adjustment reform is summarized in the matrix attached to this
letter. Its aims are to improve state finances through actions in seven sectors: two on the income
side (tangible assets, and taxes) and five on the expenditure side (education, health, pensions,
water and roads), in addition to several systemic reforms in financial administration.
The State government considers that no fiscal adjustment program can be sustainable
over the medium term without social sector and infrastructure reforms.  Institutional and
budgetary reforms are indispensable for eliminating indiscriminate subsidies and preventing
unsustainable expenditures in education, water, and health. For that reason we will continue to
check the growth of education sector personnel and other current expenditure. Furthermore, to
facilitate an appropriate investment program, it is necessary to establish levels of debt that
improve our credit rating and the terms on which public works are executed.
Through these measures, the State of Mexico's reform program will lower the fiscal
deficit to no more than 0.5 percent of ordinary revenue for 2001 and will achieve a fiscal surplus
in 2002 (of 0.9 percent of ordinary revenue) and at least through 2005.
87



I shall now proceed to describe in greater detail the main measures included in the
program (the complete program can be found in the matrix attached to this letter):
* Taxes. (i) expansion of the wage base by eliminating exceptions; (ii) increase of the
wage tax rate to 2.5 percent (which is above the national average); (iii) increase in the
state vehicle allocation within limits compatible with other entities; (iv) improvement of
tax administration to make it easier for tax payers to pay their taxes and (v) strengthening
of tax enforcement.
* Sale of tangible assets. To reduce maintenance costs and generate capital revenue,
tangible assets could be leased, licensed, or sold, depending on the type of asset. Our goal
is to market all the assets included in the marketing plan within the next five years.
* Education. It is important to sustain delivery of social services especially for the least
privileged citizens in our state. In education, we will maintain the level of expenditure
per capita, achieve a more appropriate teacher-pupil ratio, and encourage efficiency in
expenditure through improved coordination between the Federation and the state and the
application of performance indicators. With expenditure in education accounting for over
60 percent of the state's expenditure budget, stabilizing the teacher-pupil ratio will lead to
a significant reduction of expenditure compared to projected expenditure on education
based on past teacher recruitment practices. In the future, new teachers will be recruited
mainly in order to increase the teacher-pupil ratio in schools where it is below the
national average. In practice this means that most new teachers will be deployed to
schools in rural areas. Increasing the efficiency of expenditure in the educational sector
will pave the way for incentives designed to encourage schools and local communities to
run their own education establishments. The idea of these incentives is to persuade the
Federal Government to give the states greater powers to administer human resources in
the education sector.
* Health. We will increase the Secretariat of Health budget, which reaches the people most
in need; we will increase contributions for our social security services, while making sure
that pension reserves are not used to grant other kinds of subsidies; we shall make better
use of the infrastructure, equipment, and personnel in the health sector by coordinating
with all public health institutions in the utilization of the sector's installations and by
establishing a consolidated medicine purchasing system.
* Pensions. Reserves will be protected and the financial sustainability of the State pension
system will be reinforced, while individual capitalization pension schemes are gradually
introduced. Reform of the pension system will come about through a combination of the
following approaches: (i) restricting the use of pension funds exclusively to pension-
related expenditure, and preventing the siphoning off of pension funds for other uses; (ii)
gradually increasing the contribution rate and raising the retirement age in order to cut the
system's implicit debt by at least 20 percent; and (iii) requiring payment of contributions
for the portions of remuneration that are not included in basic wages and allocating this
additional revenue to accumulation in individual accounts.
* Water. New water rate rules will be introduced, along with mechanisms for effective
collection of water rates for municipalities and operating agencies. The state will ask the
municipalities voluntarily to support payment for bulk supplies of water using the federal
88



sharing funds. Subsidies in the state budget for municipalities and operating agencies
will be eliminated. This will eliminate state government budget transfers to the CAEM,
and help to lower the fiscal deficit.
*  Transport.  The increase in budget funding for highway maintenance will reduce
deterioration and make it easier to plan for the transportation sector, including highway
construction and concessions.
*  Financial administration. This reform includes, inter alia, actions to improve debt and
expenditure management, establishing budgetary performance indicators to enhance
efficiency and accountability, and to refine budgetary planning so that there is a better
match between the budget approved and that actually executed. The new indebtedness
ceiling approved by Congress, as well as the requirement to produce periodical reports
will strengthen the constitutional balances between the different branches of government
and make it easier for Congress to exercise its powers. We shall earmark funds to
improve financial management and the office of the comptroller, focusing especially on
improvements in honoring payment commitments to suppliers and contractors. We will
also explore ways to improve state government procurement of goods and services,
including possibly the use of computerized public bidding systems such as the
"Compranet" system developed by the Federal Government.
IV.   Commitment and capacity of the State to carry out the proposed reforms
The current administration has been in power for little more than a year. It still has five
years left in which to implement all the proposed reforms and to demonstrate the benefits of the
adjustment program. In the exercise of its powers, the Congress of the State of Mexico will keep
a close watch on progress made with the reforms.
Finally, we are aware that our citizens, our states, and the general public are observing
the State of Mexico's performance. We are determined to show them the success of the reform
program.
V. The support that the State of Mexico needs in order to maintain sustainable growth
1 .    The State of Mexico needs federal support in order to carry out the proposed reforms.
This petition includes a BANOBRAS loan to finance those reforms and a
supplementary credit for technical assistance (forthcoming) needed to deliver this
program completely and to lay the foundations for strengthening actions that alleviate
poverty and support fiscal sustainability.
2.    Assistance from the Federal Government will make it possible to implement the State
Govermnent's reform program. It will improve the State's credit rating and chances
of tapping, on improved terms, the financial resources it requires to attend to the
needs of the least privileged segments of the population.
Effective voting, No Re-election
The Constitutional Governor of the State of Mexico
Arturo Montiel Rojas
89



MAP SECTION



MAP SECTION






Son FeIip~~~~~~~~~~-' -   San D'0?LVV6aada  ,t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '~~~='..  xi                                                                                                                               RED 31157~~~~~~~~BR  315
Mpjannnan                Mhn4~~~~~~rn60  ~   ~    omaounnhaIe\                                                 An                                                          OF   MEXICO~~~EXIC
/                                                                                                                                                  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/  G}rrA  N  Al IIIAQl~~~~~~~~i\   ,RJio           7        /doPnonle   2orlij'4                                                                                                                                                              AIRPORTS
iT'  'JC'21nd\  N  Jose rondo           N "                        ,o.'"                  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    2-V7~~~~5~~t~~0p~~~C2                                    2W            __________  EXPRESSWAYSof 1; T.EXPESSAY
nraror     .  A&                                                                      po         ~         oE~VE A R Z \'"-                                                                             MAIN ROADS
I"                                                             l l.OvJOI,ltipfl)IJoon,o                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
/         /RmPolrnoEos\>~~J      Quer ta                                                       s'>_ 1~f Ch,i  ~        caranV                                                      o    c0z0 -                                  STATE CAPITAL
7                                 -Esaed<    2->                                                                                              0HoynVala,/San Dingo0".                            N"                                             STATE BOUNDARIES
Vole 4 Sont222-2-J  rt4~~~~~~~~~Sel Ping  0    El    I Ten                         0.gunilo                        N                                  1'enaenaalgpa                 '                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSETNTERATIOAL)BONDARES (NSET
V.                                                                              DlRia'.15 P,Ii                                         Ioquitot
P0210k4  )          Pr                        i aol           atitlon              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ID1)A' G  0   \Aa~tap-n "-  {aayoor~n                                                        e
F,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''nno~ r-i 
A'                    otio~~~~'o .~      -eaPit             e'-2                                                                                       4N
-Tef, ~~~~~~~~   Tnl1DCSoqf                                                     ~              -
20' oN-'Jlo,2    ~                                                                                                                               ~       2/                                             L
oA  M.'-tr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                                                          a/aleo
<2"  5'  "~~~~~~'  ~ ~ l&nggngaoa     '-.~~~~~~~~ y'  ~~~4o'ls*o~~~~~roo 2    ~        ~      ~    ~     R2apholPa5                 021...     & ~~~~~~~~~~9anta            2                                        KILOMETERSpf,,  r. 
<Npi    yiwtl                            '        ,YSn ~                                ouo   2                                                                                    N. Itamotlt             t 
D69a AVIV       IflIC O   STY                    ..      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.  of,j D *  4,   at   Ute  2Tp~/I 'o
2  '-u  XoCtPO  rktTht-ja;uorraa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               -                 Apraca              '2      '  '   >2-N..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.mo0                   5           0           5          0
kAaatan  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jc
~~  MIC+IOACAN    /   >  Santo,4onio                                                                            tia ua~~an  [.AXc,LA
i ~~~Ao0~0                    Dol tA6nf                             'I~"a-'                                  -                           a-                . ~    Grodolupo Vlctani
ono~~~~  'K    *r' >                                                                                  n&ac&~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~  Hoaosap95<y ~~~~~~~~~~~ '~
TatE    C                                 <eniraiuan              MEXW'O                \                       't vA                                         g         Sa ktdlr El                      (,                         KhopnnnocebtILOMpETERS
2                         (                       -                  7<               )- /qI
19 ~~~~~~~MI C              (HOACA                            S.      2c                                                                         TI     6 '.                      H-                        La-rlC'.''     GSAd1,,n  Vlcpanaoscbaid2
I.M           )                                             r-,~-2           s-                                 >     lto  l2i                    2
"" /      t<     An/jh-l  /Mo EotlX?aaitiolnulpaa,d                                                                                                                      9iobS
2.2?utaianorantte(  2' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  2-'  ~~~~~~~  jr,aoorni                        p~~~~~~~~~~~~Oo94nhoto  2   El                                                                      p-2'  fNl M.IU,t r h.W,idB-
0lvi~~~~~~~~~a  >        A''   <"                               'M4a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         T4, ba-i--
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~".q                          ,IgT.hcq                                                                                                                                    --I bN1dTl  .l  -   -.-
El  onSinra        2Poj                                             na200)2guon   N                     a             '        Maea200s  ad5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l,l-y1-.y    ,  d- -
P                                    P.'  2                                                                                                                                UEBL
u'll-4  _~~~-P.t..                                      T ..       / _T7n                                           spoo
92  222'G~h'nooI                                                                                                                  aandpA           -Chelo2262'~?Rdtd-a25
DgPirroa  'tnaatnapaK  i ~~~~~~~~~~~aA'  (               'NP         ~           ~          ~         ~         ~          n~~a~~<                    2          N~~~c
%Cult.i.. G,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d. ~
l N -2                               2                                                                                              N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',uhut_7
_fmlo~~                                  ~~~~~~~ -                      a ln  xobaata        Th opt2c
r  So   t  Ciodad Altomina?S'    2-"'           Ia    Teanalcin~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~'-_'u_~ ul
El 0Iaoo M0alhp.0                                                     <2N-Att5P2r                                                                      < 
Nj  2              AjgsaiaygA0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_-I    BL
'~Lt~Se/r Sn &i&   ""-"""" nrtlaooY5" 'nolop-'         '~Hitajca ;                 0hlaPat9\              N  -               Aaata-~ap'n                           VI'aIOo<                                ME XNC 0                 5nO at O.02n
'N,                                            TCp-itroD' Rnttdtnise I!ac                                               CpaI241Anao
yuc. D.                  / P\' atia                    RulCi                   ajl2no(                                2                             aIanSlno~Ca
D,, Ri. ~ ~   ~     ~    0toogaeli                      IIontIn                                                                                                         '''02 ",46,
DolK    *Ot0                                                                                                                                            \maanoAn
0Tarlo   '    "                              k'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pf.0<  -  ,e2O2tIOSOo                                                                                                 In-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cd ,       If  
191  '~~~~   20tn(os~~~ol 0Sgn M gaol Toouiaiopar             *.        lkltin5o                          ,/  ~~~~~~~~~~~San joohaA,rta Soot! a         ?ACSRt:0CtAr N                    "2<'~~~~~~~~~~~~,~"'  SWnoofkP'
jc      l7        AyogiIo   42'                                                                                              any  9P.
C- LI F~~R E~~~PX-/  2A2.(                                                                                 S_ 17                             AX CA-tinnn



