Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7043-ME
Loan Agreement
  (Estado de México Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
Dated December 15, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7043-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS 
PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) 
a letter dated November 13, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Guarantor’s economy through 
the strengthening of the Guarantor's decentralization reform program, including, 
specifically, support to the economic reform program of  Estado de México (the State) 
(the Program), declaring the Guarantor’s commitment to the execution of the Program 
and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
Page  2
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is 
made.”.
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 
these General Conditions”.
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the Guarantor 
and the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program 
referred to in the Preamble to 
the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower, 
the Guarantor and the Bank of their respective obligations under the 
Loan 
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan.”
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Guarantee 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a) 
“ADEFAS” means the liabilities of the State that are not financed by 
regular borrowing (Adeudos de Ejercicios Fiscales Anteriores), accrued by the State in 
prior budgetary years, and not yet settled, as detailed in the State public account;
(b)
“AFORE” means any of the public pension contribution systems of the 
Guarantor (Administradora de Fondos para el Retiro) established and operating pursuant 
to the provisions of the Guarantor's Law dated May 23, 1996 (Ley de los Sistemas de 
Ahorro para el Retiro), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c)
“CAEM” means  the water commission of the State (Comisión del Agua del 
Page  3
Estado de México) established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the State 
Law dated January 18, 1999, or any successor or successors thereto;
(d)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period;
(f)
“Floating Debt” means the sum of ADEFAS and accounts payable (Cuentas por 
Pagar) of the State;
(g)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing technical criteria and indicators to be used in 
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the Program;
(h)
“ISSEMyM” means the social security system of the State  (Instituto de 
Seguridad Social del Estado de México y de los Municipios) established and operating 
pursuant to the provisions of the State's social security law, dated August, 1969 (Ley 
de Seguridad Social para los Servidores Públicos del Estado y Municipios), as amended 
to the date of this Agreement, or any successor or successors thereto; 
(i) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which 
said Disbursed Amount is withdrawn;
(j)
“Net Borrowing” means any new issuance of debt and obligations of the 
State minus amortization of principal;
(k) 
“Ordinary Income” means the aggregate amount of capital and current 
income of the State minus revenues obtained by the State from the Guarantor through 
extraordinary transfers (excluding transfers allocated to the State in the 
corresponding Federal Budget, or through the application of legally defined formulae);
(l)
“Overall Balance” means the difference between Ordinary Income and all 
expenditures incurred by the State, including loans and transfers made by the State to 
public or private entities;
(m) 
“Overall Deficit” means the amount by which the total expenditures 
(current and capital) of the State, as expressed in the corresponding State budget, 
and its execution, exceed the total revenues (current and capital) of the State;
(n)
“Quarter” means any of the continuous periods of three months in a 
calendar year, which runs from January to March, April to June, July to September or 
October to December;
(o)
“SSEM” means  the health secretariat of the State (Secretaría de Salud 
del Estado de México) or any successor or successors thereto;
(p)
“State Budget 2000” means the annual budget of the State for the year 
2000, as approved by the State's legislature (Presupuesto de Egresos del Gobierno del 
Estado de México para el Ejercicio Fiscal 2000), enacted through a Congressional 
Decree issued pursuant to the provisions of Article 61 (xxx) of the State's  
Constitution;
(q)
“State Budget 2001” means the annual budget of the State for the year 
2001, as approved by the State's legislature (Presupuesto de Egresos del Gobierno del 
Estado para el Ejercicio Fiscal 2001), to be enacted through a Congressional Decree 
Page  4
issued pursuant to the provisions of Article 61 (xxx) of the State's  Constitution;
(r)
“State Budget 2002” means the annual budget of the State for the year 
2002, as approved by the State's legislature (Presupuesto de Egresos del Gobierno del 
Estado de México para el Ejercicio Fiscal 2002), to be enacted through a Congressional 
Decree issued pursuant to the provisions of Article 61 (xxx) of the State's  
Constitution;
(s)
“Water Law” means the water legislation enacted by the State's 
legislature (Ley del Agua del Estado de México) dated March 10, 1999, as amended to 
the date of this Agreement; and
(t) 
“Water Supply Agreement” means any of the agreements entered into among 
the State (Secretariat of Finance and Planning), CAEM, a municipal government and the 
corresponding municipal water company (Organismo Operador), for the provision of 
water, and regulating other matters regarding water supply service, including, inter 
alia, prices and payment terms and conditions.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five hundred  
five million sixty thousand Dollars ($505,060,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Loan 
Account an amount equal to five hundred million nine thousand four hundred Dollars 
($500,009,400) in support of the Program, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), 
(c), (d), and (e) of this Section.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in Banco de 
México, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  
All withdrawals from the Loan Account (except that set forth in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement) shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.  The Borrower 
shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be deposited in the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the amount 
of two hundred five million sixty thousand Dollars ($205,060,000), unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views, as described in Section 3.01 (a) of 
the Guarantee Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (A) with the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the macroeconomic 
policy framework of the Guarantor is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Guarantor, the Borrower, and the Bank; and (C) that the 
actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not 
so satisfied, the Bank may give notice to the Borrower and to the Guarantor to that 
effect and, if within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower and the 
Page  5
Guarantor shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank in respect of (A), (B), 
and (C) above, as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 
the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
(e) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the amount 
of three hundred five million sixty thousand Dollars ($305,060,000), unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views, as described in Section 3.01 (a) of 
the Guarantee Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (A) with the 
progress in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the macroeconomic policy 
framework of the Guarantor is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators 
agreed between the Guarantor, the Borrower, and the Bank; and (C) that the actions 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so 
satisfied, the Bank may give notice to the Borrower and to the Guarantor to that 
effect and, if within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower and the 
Guarantor shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank in respect of (A), (B), 
and (C) above, as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 
the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to five million fifty thousand six hundred Dollars ($5,050,600).  The Borrower 
agrees that, on, or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on 
the eighth (8th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said 
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-eighth 
(28th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed 
Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-twenty-first 
(1/21) of said Disbursed Amount.  The last installment shall be equal to the remaining 
outstanding amount of said Disbursed Amount. 
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after April 15, 2016, the Borrower shall 
also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization 
schedule for each Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said 
Page  6
Disbursed Amount.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may, at any time, request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of,  
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing inter 
alia, for: (i) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the 
transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be 
required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on the 
Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to 
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.  
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall participate in the exchanges of views referred 
to in Section 3.01 (a) and (c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.03. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Page  7
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Guarantor is satisfactory as 
measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Guarantor, the Borrower and 
Bank; and
(b) 
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement have been entered into.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and the Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and are 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date March 15, 2001, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.03 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
      Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  8
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.
Tecoyotitla 100
Colonia Florida
01030, México D.F.
México
Telex:
Facsimile: 
BANOSOME 01772619
(525) 723-6291
BANOME 01762072
Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS 
   PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
By /s/ Tomás Ruíz González
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Guarantor;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Page  9
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                      -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Guarantor or international agreements to 
which the Guarantor is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower, of 
the Guarantor or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower or the Guarantor having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (C) of this Agreement
1. 
The Overall Deficit included in the State Budget 2001, as executed by the State 
through the end of the most recent Quarter, does not exceed one half of one percent 
(0.5%)  of the  Ordinary Income through the end of the most recent Quarter.
2.
The State's executive branch has presented to the State's legislature for 
approval thereby,  a bill of law to amend the State's social security law (Ley de 
Seguridad Social para los Servidores Públicos del Estado y Municipios) dated August, 
1969, so that: 
(a) 
the implicit pension debt of the State (calculated as of December 31, 
2000) is reduced by twenty percent (20%) of the total value of such debt, through, 
inter alia,  the gradual implementation of reduced pension benefits and the amendment 
of the mandatory retirement age for workers covered by ISSEMyM; 
(b) 
contributions on the non-salary portion of the remuneration paid to said 
workers are collected (on a mandatory basis, from new participants in  ISSEMyM, and on 
a voluntary basis, from other workers) and deposited into individual accounts set up 
in AFORES, in a manner consistent with the criteria set forth in paragraph A.2.1 of 
the Implementation Letter; and
(c)
the right to receive a prorated pension is provided to workers leaving 
the ISSEMyM, upon reaching the retirement age, as defined in said bill of law.
3.
The State's executive branch has published in the State's Official Gazette (
Gaceta de Gobierno), by not later than February 28, 2001, the administrative 
regulations pertaining to the Water Law including, inter alia, provisions detailing 
the contractual framework applicable to Water Supply Agreements, and procedures for 
payment collection, cost coverage, fiscal reporting, and promotion of the 
participation of private parties in the provision of water, in a manner consistent 
with the principles set forth in paragraph A.3.1 of the Implementation Letter.
4.
Water Supply Agreements signed since November 16, 2000, have included water 
payment collection provisions, in a manner consistent with the mechanisms detailed in 
paragraph A.4.1 of the Implementation Letter.
5.
The stock of Floating Debt has been reduced by, at least, twenty percent (20%) 
relative to the stock of Floating Debt outstanding as of December 31, 2000.
6.
The State's executive branch has presented to the State's legislature for 
approval thereby:
(a) 
a bill of law (Proyecto de Ley de Planeación) to establish, inter alia, 
the procedures governing integrated financial management and sector performance 
indicators applicable to the State budget, and 
(b) 
a bill of law to amend the State's Fiscal Law (Código Financiero del 
Estado de México y Municipios), dated March 9, 1999, requiring, inter alia, that: (i) 
any intra-year reforms to the State budget shall preserve the same Overall Balance as 
in the budget initially approved by the State legislature for the corresponding year; 
and (ii)  future State budgets shall be prepared, presented and executed pursuant to 
program budgeting procedures, in a manner consistent with the principles set forth in 
paragraph A.6.1 of the Implementation Letter.
7.
The State's executive branch: 
(a)
has presented to the State legislature, for information: 
(i) 
quarterly reports on budget execution, through the end of the most 
Page  11
recent Quarter; and 
(ii) 
quarterly reports detailing the amounts and terms of the stock of 
outstanding debt incurred by the State, 
through the end of the 
most recent Quarter; and 
(b)
has posted the quarterly reports detailed in paragraphs (a) (i) and (a) 
(ii) above on the Internet website of the State (Secretariat of Finance and Planning).
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) (C) of this Agreement 
1.
 The Overall Deficit included in the State Budget 2001, as executed by the State 
through the end of the most recent Quarter, does not exceed one half of one percent 
(0.5%)  of the Ordinary Income through the end of the most recent Quarter.
2.
The stock of Floating Debt has been reduced by, at least, forty percent (40%) of 
the stock of Floating Debt outstanding as of December 31, 2000. 
3. 
The  State Budget 2001, as executed, has included no budgetary transfers for 
CAEM, other than for the financing of CAEM's investments that have been included in 
the public investment program of the State, as approved by the State's legislature.
4.
The State's executive branch has presented to the State's legislature for 
approval thereby, the draft State Budget 2002, including provisions for the following 
matters: 
(a)
a surplus in the Overall Balance of, at least, ninety one-hundredths of 
one percent (0.9%) of the Ordinary Income;
(b)
education expenditures, calculated in real terms and on a per-student 
basis, which are, at least, equal to the amount approved for comparable expenditures 
in the State Budget 2001; 
(c)
detailed targets for the recruitment of primary and secondary education 
teachers based on the standards set forth in paragraph B.4.2 of the Implementation 
Letter; 
(d) 
budgetary allocations for SSEM which have been increased by, at least, 
four percent (4%) calculated in real terms, relative to the allocations for SSEM 
approved under the State Budget 2000;
(e)
no budgetary allocations for CAEM, other than for financing of CAEM's 
investments that  have been  included in the public investment program of the State;
(f) 
rates for water services charged by CAEM which have been increased by, at 
least, six percent (6%), in real terms,  relative to the rates effective as of October 
31, 2000, in a manner consistent with the criteria set forth in paragraph B.4.3 of the 
Implementation Letter; 
(g)
 the reduction of the stock of Floating Debt by, at least, eighty percent 
(80%) relative to the stock of Floating Debt outstanding as of December 31, 2000; and
(h)
an explicit nominal Net Borrowing ceiling which has been set at an amount 
not higher than eighty percent (80%) of the stock of Floating Debt, existing as of 
December 31, 2000, minus the reduction of the stock of Floating Date that took place 
through the execution of the State Budget 2001.
5.
Contribution rates for ISSEMyM health services have been increased by, at least, 
Page  12
four (4) percentage points, relative to the rates applicable to the provision of 
similar health services as of December 31, 2000, in a manner consistent with the 
criteria and timetable set forth in paragraph B.5.1 of the Implementation Letter. 
