Page  1
December 18, 1998
Dr. Martín Werner
Subsecretario de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
México, D.F.
United Mexican States
Re: Japanese Grant for State Decentralization Project
Grant Number TF025617
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant 
in an amount not exceeding one million four hundred sixty-five thousand eight hundred U.S. Dollars 
(US$1,465,800) (the Grant) to United Mexican States (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Country Director
Mexico
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Martín Werner
Title:  Subsecretario de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Date: December 22, 1998
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the State Decentralization Project, 
which has a main objective to provide states with direct access to additional financial resources from 
the Bank, as well as to private financial markets, and assist them in acquiring the capacity to 
efficiently manage such resources.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(i)
Carrying out studies of fiscal decentralization and state creditworthiness in Mexico;
(ii)
carrying out studies to identify ways and means of enhancing state and municipal access 
to private financial markets;
(iii)
carrying out studies of institutional and financial capacity strengthening of states and 
municipalities and their corresponding needs in technical assistance;
(iv)
designing the conceptual framework, financial mechanisms and technical assistance, 
consistent with the constitutional framework, to allow the states direct access to 
international and institutional funds and private domestic financial markets; and
(v)
coordination and harmonization of decentralization information/activities across sectors 
and agencies, including workshops and one study tour.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct 
of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by September 30, 1999.  After that date, the 
Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist  in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done 
according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of 
United Mexican States on the consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or 
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities.  Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any 
of the following event has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
Page  3
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the fight of the Recipient, or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association shall have been suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is 
not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
