7X- /A/
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12193-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
JANUARY 24, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report Nlo:        12193 IN
Type: SAR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a reshicted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoizaion.



CURRENCY EOUIVALRNTS
(as of April 1993)
Currency Unit - Rupees (Rs.)
US$ 1 = Rs. 30.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWP          -    Annual work Plan
DAH          -    Department of Animal Husbandry
EFD          -    Energy and Forests Department
ERR          -    Economic Rate of Return
FD           -    Forest Department
FDC          -    Forest Development Corporation
FPC          -    Forest Protection Committee
FRR          -    Financial Rate of Return
GCC          -    Girijan Cooperative Corporation
GDP          -    Gross Domestic Product
GIS          -    Geographical Information System
GOAP         -    Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI          -    Government of India
ICB          -    International Competitive Bidding
IRR          -    Internal Rate of Return
ITDA         -    Integrated Tribal Development Agency
JFM          -    Joint Forest Management
LCB          -    Local Competitive Bidding
MIS          -    Management Information System
NGO          -    Non-Government Organization
NPV          -    Net Present Value
NTFP         -    Non-Timber Forest Products
PMU          -    Project Monitoring Unit
SOE          -    Statement of Expenditure
TDP          -    Tribal Development Plan
TOR          -    Terms of Reference
VSS          -    Vana Samrakshana Samiti
FISCAT YRAR
GOI, GOAP - April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFX0L US ONY
I.    T14KOSSF-CI~                                   ............................................. 1
Forestry in the National Economly                                    *....................................... 1
Forestry Development in Andhra Pradesh State               .            3
Lessons from Past Bank Lending                      .                   9
II.  u...EaQzE . .                                                              11
Country Assistance Strategy Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . 11
and Origin
Project Area .11
Objectives and Strategy .1.1................... ll
The Reform Program ....................... 12
Project Investment Components .12
Project Costs and Financing .15
Procurement .16
Disbursement ......................... . 19
Project Accounts and Audits .19
,III. p.oJT.MP.t4.MAT.N   .21
'Organisation and Management .................. . 21
Pricing and Marketing ..................... . 26
Annual Work Programs; Monitoring and Reporting .27
Project Benefits and Justification .                                   27
Environmental impact .30
institutional Impact .                                                 30
Impact on Women ....................... . 30
Tribal Development ...................... . 30
Project Risks .32
XV.   ami!ENRWI,R................... 33
Annex 1 Agreed Sector Reforms ..................... . 35
Annex 2  Tribal Development Strategy .................. . 42
Annex 3 Project Cost Tables . .................... . 54
Annex 4 Schedule of Estimated Disbursmeents .56
Annex 5  Criteria for Selection of Forest Land for High-yield Plantations  57
Annex 6 Criteria for Selection of NGOS .60
Annex 7 Financial and Economic Analysis .62
Annex 8 Supervision Plan, Development Impact Indicators
and Implementation Schedule .75
Annex 9 Benefit Sharing Arrangements under Joint Forest Management  . .   86
Annex 10 Contents of Implementation Schedule .88
Annex 11 Documents Available in Project File .90
IBRD No.24929
The report is based on the findinqs of a Bank Appraisal mission which visited India in April
1993. The mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. A. Clark (Task Manaqer), A. Contreras, P.
Gubhthakurta, M. Jansen, N. Jones. C. Roil, V. Kumar, M. Mitra, N. Rman (lank) and 0. Ralu
(Consultant)  Additional contributions were made by Ms. T. Estoque and Mr. B. Singh (Bank).
The report is endorsed by Mr. H. Vergin (Director) and Mr. S. arqhouti (Division Chief).
Assistance was also provided by peer reviewers Messrs./Mhes. 0. Baykal (Forestry), A. Sfeir-
Younis (Econo0Mcs) and S. Shen (Environment).
This document hS a resictod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Dank authoizaion.



CREDIT ADI PROJECT SUMaRY
rnQxayzm                India, acting by its President
Uimtn*lng A *t nflf:    The Forest Department CFD) of the Government of Andhra
Pradesh (GOAP).
hmmmtL:                 IDA Credit of SDR 55.6 million (US$ 77.4 million
equivalent).
5Zama:                  Standard, with 35 years maturity.
6ft-1.in 44w"g YwIwa:   rrom GOI to GOAP as part of central assistance to the
state for development assistance on standard terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
flhnelina iazsa:        About 700,000 households of fringe forest dwellers and
small farmors, including about 150,000 tribal households.
ED=            : Catomss-o  Program of Targeted Interventions.
The population of project main beneficiaries, fringe
forest villagers and tribals, belong to the poorest
sections of society. These beneficiaries consist to over
50% of scheduled casts and tribes, who are poorer than
the State's rural population as a whole. The project
also has a set of specific measures so that project
activities support the interests of these groups and
those of women, such as statutory safeguards for their
participation in village forest protection committees,
employment preference, training targeting women of fringe
forest or tribal villages, and gender-sensitive
monitoring.
3mira4     nosThri: This project would finance a 6-year program to support:
(a) forestry works on about 355,000 ha. This would
consist of regenerating or afforesting degraded forest
areas on about 173,000 ha with multi-tier coverage under
participatory management arrangements with local
populations; plantation forestry on 104,500 ha including
silvicultural operations on 15,000 ha of teak
plantations; and e3panding coamunity and farm forest
coverage by about 77,000 ha: (b) alleviation of poverty
through employment and a stream of sustainable forest
benefits targeted mainly to fringe forest dwellers,
tribals and small farmers: (c) special action programs
geared to: improve forestry research and plant
propagation, support the joint forest management process
through training and some funding to BOOs, improve
biodiversity conservation and protected areas manaement,
undertake collaborative fodder development with the FD
and other organizations, and a tribal development plans



- ii -
and (d) buildings, vehicles, equipment, training,
studies, ineremental staff and operating costs for the
forest administration.
g4aka:                   The main project risks would be: (a) the degree of
commitment within some parts of participating departments
of GOAP to make the necessary institutional and policy
reforms; (b) the effectiveness of people's participation
in forest management and development; and Cc) parts of
northern Andhra Pradesh experience unrest from naxalite
groups which may make project activities there more
difficult.
atimat-ed Project Coats:
- -  - US$ Million - - - -
kwdL       Eami=        Total
Forest Management
Participatory Forest Rehabilitation   17.6            0.9        18.5
Production Forestry                    19.6           1.2        20.8
Conmunity & Farm Forestry                7.9          0.4         8.3
Special Action Programs
Research & Plant Propagation             8.2           .8         9.0
Joint Forest Management                  4.6          0.6         5.2
Biodiversity Conservation                6.0          0.5         6.5
Collaborative Fodder Program             0.2          0.2         0.4
Tribal Development Plan                 5.7           0.3         6.0
Forest Administration Support             L.5.          L 9.
Base Cost                         78.3           5.8        84.1
Physical Contingencies                     5.3          0.4         5.7
Price Contingencies                       -1-4          D_1-
Total Project Costl               82.2           6.9        89.1
1 Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$ 3.1 million.
inannning Plan:                           - - US$ Million - -
acz           Fgrega         Tnta1
Government                     11.7             -            11.7
IDA                            70.5            6.9          77.4
TOTAL                          82.2            6.9           89.1
Etimted:
(USS million)
EzX9   Euai   mY9    FY97   za uMM     Er    ix
Annual                5    6.7   10.6   13.8   15.6   15.7   10.0
Cumulative           5   11.7   22.3   36.1   51.7   67.4   77.4
ngnnnig Rate of R^turn: 20%
pa=: IBRD No.24929



I. THE FORESTRY SECTOR
ForRtry in the National eoaonmy
1.1   In 1991, the recorded area of forest in India was 77 million hectares,
but only about 64 million hectares, or 19 percent of the country's total
geographical area, is actually covered by forests. The distribution of forest
cover is uneven, with more than 50 percent in five states: Madhya Pradesh,
Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa ancd Maharashtra. More than 80
percent of Arunachal Pradesh is forested, while the forest cover amounts to
less than 4 percent in Rajasthan and Punjab. Forest cover is concentrated in
the northeast, the Himalayas, the central and Western Ghats and in patches of
mangroves in coastal areas. The nation's per-capita average forest area is
0.07 ha, which is among the lowest in the world.
1.2   Forests in India play an important role in maintaining environmental
stability mainly through soil and moisture conservation and amelioration of
microclimate. They are also depositories of rich genepool resources and
biodiversity. They play an important role in the economy by providing a
variety of wood and non-wood products. The national consumption of timber and
wood in 1988 was estimated at approximately 260 million m3; more than 90
percent of the harvested wood is used for fuelwood. Forests are also the main
single source of fodder and other non-timber forest products (NTFP). In most
areas local people have free access to forests to meet their fuelwood and also
fodder or grazing needs for their livestock. Part of the fuelwood collected by
the rural people is sold in the urban market. Particularly poor farmers and
the landless depend on the forests for their own subsistence needs, whilst
many also derive their income from the sale of fuelwood and NTFP. The
contribution of the forestry sector to GNP has been estimated to be less than
2 percent, but this does not take into account the numerous non-monetary and
external benefits, nor the unrecorded harvests of fuelwood, timber and NTFP.
Nor does it reflect the great importance of the forests to supporting the
enormous cattle population.
1.3  The average productivity of the natural forests as well as that of
forest plantations is poor, being well below capacity. The degradation of the
forest resource due to over-exploitation and clearing is proceeding at an
alarming rate. Between 1950 and 1980, about 4.3 million hectares of forest
land was diverted to non-forest use, mainly for agriculture including
irrigation, hydropower projects, industry and mining, etc. Encroachment and
shifting cultivation also cause forest destruction in some areas. Almost half
of the recorded area of India's remaining forests are badly degraded or
denuded. Forest degradation and deforestation are a direct consequence of the
acute land scarcity in India, which is increasing with the rising population,
and is exacerbated by the effects on vegetation and soil from India's
livestock population, totalling an estimated 450 million head. Practically
free and unregulated grazing in forest areas impedes natural regeneration
because the soil becomes too compact for seeds to germinate due to livestock
movement, or the regrowth is destroyed through animal browsing. Other
important pressures on the forests are the state governments' demands for
revenue from the forests and for timber, pulpwood and fuelwood to supply
industries and urban consumers. The large demand-supply gap in forest products
is causing a continuous scarcity situation, and this results in the over-
cutting of forests to meet the demand. Despite extreme pressures on forests,
it is to the credit of the states' forest departments that large areas of
forests are still maintained. However, the depletion of the resource has been
outstripping its conservation and development.



1.4   Historically Indian forests were primarily managed for generating
maximum revenue for the states mainly from the sale of timber. The emphasis of
forest management has recently been shifted tc resource conservation and
development. In 1980 the Forest Conservation Act was promulgated, according to
which the State Governments cannot divert forest land to non-forest purposes
without the prior approval of the Central Government. The Act was amended in
1988 to restrict clearfelling of natural forest and the leasing of forest
land, making them conditional to approval by GOI. In December, 1988 the new
National Forest Policy was adopted to meet the challenge of the continued
depletion of the country's forest resources. The principal aim of the forest
policy is to ensure the ecological balance, and the derivation of direct
economic benefits has been declared a secondary aim. The objectives of this
policy are: first, conservation of biodiversity, and checking of 9oil erosion
and decertification; second, iiicreasing the forest cover; third, meeting the
needs for forest-derived goods and income of the rural and tribal population;
fourth, increasing the forests' productivity to meet essential needs of
society at large; and the involvement of local people to achieve these
objectives. The policy encourages farm forestry as a source of commercial
timber products and discourages the supply of such products from public
forests at concessional prices. The government has made efforts to increase
the country's forest cover through its social forestry program, implemented on
a large scale from the early 1980s, which has promoted tree planting on
degraded private agricultural lands and public lands (wastelands). Total
wastelands are estimated at about 90 million hectares and include degraded
forests, marginal agricultural land and uncultivated non-forest public land.
Officially reported figures of areas planted and actual areas of successful
afforestation are at variance as effective monitoring has not been undertaken.
An estimate of about 5 million hectares has been presented for the area of
non-forest wastelands that have so far been afforested with some success. The
Eight Five-Year Plan (1992-97) further emphasizes investments for
rehabilitation of degraded forests and farm forestry. However, much of the
above-mentioned, large area of wastelands is being used by local populations
for other purposes, particularly seasonal grazing.
1.5   Forestry used to be a state subject until 1977 when it came under the
concurrent list; this means that both GOI and the State Governments have
shared responsibility and control over the forestry sector. However, the
management of the forests remains the responsibility of the states and it is
up to them to decide on the strength and deployment of the staff and other
resources for implementation of the National Forestry Policy. Notwithstanding
the conservation-oriented forestry policy the State Governments are faced with
political pressures for forest products, land to satisfy a growing population
and industrial interest groups, and revenue compulsion. While investments for
forest*y development are financed both from state resources and from GOI,
forest maintenance and protection, including staff costs, are financed by the
states.
1.6 During the last one and a half decades the investment emphasis in the
forestry sector has been shifted from natural forest management to social
forestry and afforestation programs with the people's involvement. While these
activities have received ample funding and have been implemented with varying
success, the state forest departments' normal activities, which relate to the
management of the vast majority of the natural forest areas, have been
continuously neglected in most states due to inadequate funding. The forest
departments have also expanded their staff particularly to implement
externally supported social forestry projects. But there has been no
re.aarkable change in their organizational structure or human resources



development so as to meet the new challenges to their mandate in the changed
socio-economic and technological scenario. Such change has also become
necessary for the successful implementation of the new forestry policy and the
participatory approach to forest management advocated by the policy.
1.7   Although many forestry programs that were taken up worked reasonably
well and forest departments have shown significant resilience and a capacity
to adapt, the Government is still facing some major issues in the sector.
These issues vary from state to state, depending on a state's agro-climatic
and socio-economic conditions. The immediate issues required to be addressed,
as also recognized in the recent Forest Sector Review (para 1.30), can be
grouped into five categories: (a) local people have not been cufficiently
motivated to cooperate in forest protection and development, and the staff of
forest departments needs to be oriented to work closely with the local people
for this purpose; (b) goverament rules, regulations and procedures that
discourage villagers from engaging in farm forestry and agroforestry and make
these activities less profitable than they could be, need to be relaxed; (c)
technological development in forestry operations has not kept pace with the
heavy inflow of investment in afforestation programs and consequently the
productivity of the plantations is much below the optimux level; (d) the
traditional institutional structure of forest departments and arrangements for
human resources development of forest staff need to be changed so as to make
the departments more efficient; the lack of technical specialization among
staff needs to be addressed; and (e) the prominent position of forest
departments has tended to discourage other public and private sector actors
from sharing responsibility  for the forestry sector's development. - Issues
which pertain more specifically to the situation in Andhra Pradesh are
discussed below.
Forestry Davelopg=nt in Andhra Pradesh State
1.8  VFreat Ranoure-a. Many types of forests are found in Andhra Pradesh
and most suffer from degradation. The state has a recorded forest area of
about 6.4 million ha or 23% of the geographical area but the actual forest
cover is 4.7 million ha.  About 45% of the forest is degraded (25% is devoid
of tree cover) and there are another 2.9 million ha of wastelands outside the
classified forests. All forest lands are owned by GOAP. Most forests in
Andhra Pradesh are deciduous (70%) or thorny (25%), with the remaining 5%
taken up by other forest types. Andhra Pradesh covers seven agro-ecological
zones but can physio-geographically be divided into three main areas -- the
coastal plains in a relatively narrow band to the east with rich agriculture;
the eastern ghats in the middle which consists of a narrow strip of hill
ranges running northeast to southwest; and the western peneplain with a
rolling topography which covers the rest of the area. The rainfall ranges
from 750 mm in the south to 1300 mm in the north. Part of the western
peneplain receives only 650 mm of rainfall annually.
1.9    The forests serve many different needs but are not evenly distributed.
The northern coastal plains have degraded, previously rich, forests while the
eastern Ghats still contain some very good forests. The northern part of the
peneplain has the largest area of high value forests (north Telangana region)
while the southern part (Rayalaseema region) has tropical deciduous and thorn
forests. The most important species from a revenue point of view is teak (14%
of the tree area) and large areas of bamboo are worked on a rotational basis
to supply local needs as well as part of the raw material requirements of the
state's major wood based industries. Beedie leaves, a non-timber forest
product, is another important source of revenue. The total forest area



- 4 -
amounts to 0.10 ha per capita which is close to the national average. in
addition to meeting the local fuel, timber and industrial raw material needs
the forests also provide grazing to a large proportion of the state's 33
million livestock (1987 Livestock Census).
1.10   The forests in Andhra Pradesh, like the forests in other parts of
India, are under serious threat from many causes. The first is what in India
is commonly called "biotic pressure". This term includes: (1) unregulated
harvesting of fuelwood, charcoal, building materials, forage and forest
products for self-consumption and sale; (2) uncontrolled grazing by livestock
that spend part or all year in the forests; and (3) clearing forest for
sh fting cultivation or permanent encroachment. The effects of these
activities go beyond the removal of trees and other plant cover: forest
regeneration is also seriously reduced by the widespread practice of burning
the forest floor to promote fresh grass growth and by compaction in heavy-
grazing areas. In addition, past policies that encouraged industries to cut
but not plant trees, certain logging practices, inadequate funding for forest
maintenance operations and timber smuggling, are all cited as causes for the
degradatior and clearing of natural forests. The same forces, plus technical
problems such as poor quality seed and outdated nursery practices, have kept
the productivity of plantations low. The forest administration's mostly
inadequate arrangements to monitor the development of the forest resources
make analyzing the true extent of the problem and suggesting effective
remedies very difficult. More details on forest resources in Andhra Pradesh
are available in Annex 1 of the Imple'entation volume.
1.11  Bindivermit3 Conservation.  Biodiversity conservation requires improved
manaqement of resources within and outside the protected areas network and
further study. There is one national park and 20 sanctuaries in Andhra
Pradesh covering nearly 1.2 million ha. This is equivalent to 4.3% of the
total area and 18% of the forest area in the state. in most protected areas
settlement of existing rights have not been completed. This has constrained
proper management of the areas. Other problems include inadequate
biogeographic coverage of some important eco-systems, little provision of
corridors between areas, inadequate consideration of socio-economic needs of
communities living in and around the reserves, and administrative weaknesses
in the wildlife wing of the FD. Besides the gazetted reserves, there are many
smaller areas of biological interest. These include a number of conservation
areas, sacred groves, deer parks and three zoological parks. Over 5,000 plant,
100 mammal, 500 bird and 100 reptile species have been recorded in the state.
A number of the mammal and bird species are considered endangered. Species
conservation depends mostly on successful habitat conservation which in turn
requires remedies to problems that threaten the survival of all forest areas.
Many of the wildlife concerns need further study before effective management
plans for the different areas can be defined.
1.12 RaL^ gf Forest Sactor in the REonam=. Forestry plays a vital role in
village economies but a less prominent one in the state as a whole. The
revenues from forests contribute now only about 1% to state net domestic
product. However, the increased emphasis on forest conservation embodied in
the National Forest Policy has greatly reduced harvesting operations. In 1990
the recorded timber harvest was 51,600 m3 while the corresponding annual
output until 1985 was over 100,000 m3 per year. Nowadays receipts from beedi
leaf collection (for local cigarettes) make up almost 40% of forest revenues.
As a whole the forest-based industry generates over 60,000 jobs in the state.
The larger wood based industries include paper and pulp, rayon manufacturing
and saw timber. Forest raw materials are also the base of a large artisanal



industry. Basket making using bamboo is organized in 550 societies with 23,000
members and there are over 400 beedi manufacturing units. Additional jobs are
created in collection of NTFP and private forestry. More than 100,000 persons
are seasonally involved in the collection of beedie leaves alone. Another
important benefit from forests (albeit heavily overused) is livestock fodder
as mentioned in paras. 1.9-10.
1.13  W    ld emnand anid S 1yg.  There is insufficient infotmation about the
"wood balance' but recorded supply of forest produce is far below demand. The
requirements for fuelwood - 75-80% of total use - are estimated very
generally, as are those for the informal sector small sawmills, while wood
requirements of varioua industries are easier to estimate. Recorded
production data is incomplete as it excludes illegal felling, household usee
and removals of wood from non-forest lands. Therefore, accurately assessing
the gap between wood production and requirements is difficult. However, a
rough demand estimate shows a total requirement of about 19 million m3 of wood
annually increasing to 25 million m3 by the year 2000. FD estimates of supply
for fuelwood and pulpwood suggest that 13.4 million tons (about 21 million zn3)
are removed annually (0.2 million tons recorded, 4.4 million tons unrecorded
and another 8.8 million tons from areas outside the forests). A part of the
industrial wood and timber comes from other Indian states and from imports.
More details on supply and demand of forest products in Andhra Pradesh are
available in Annex 1 of the Implementation Volume.
1.14  IJ±it.±Lna.  The initiative to put forward new policy propositions
usually comes from the forest administration. It is headed by the Forest
Secretary (from the Indian Administrative Service) who is in charge of funds
and policies, and the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (from the Indian
Forest Service) who has the operational responsibility and authority over the
forest estate. Many policies have not been comprehensively assessed prior to
implementation and as a result there is a mixture of incentives for forest
protection and development on one hand but disincentives on the other hand.
The state government needs to strengthen policy analysis so that an efficient
incentive framework is set in place and interventions designed that address
the priority needs of the sector.
1.15 The public forest estate is managed by the Andhra Pradesh Forest
Department (FD) and the Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation (FDC).
The FD is responsible for the protection, conservation, management and
development of the forest estate, including the national parks and wildlife
sanctuaries in the state, and for social forestry activities. The FD is also
concerned with extraction and sale of timber and other forest produce. The FD
has three main wings: territorial, social forestry and wildlife; and a number
of functional circles. "he priorities in the National Forest Policy (para.
1.4) require a change in the orientation of the forest administration towards
involvement of local people in the managament of forests (commonly referred to
as joint forest management or JFM). The FD organization, their activities and
the training provided to staff must change accordingly. The FDC was
established in 1975 to avail of institutional finance to convert mixed natural
forest of low e;onomic value into valuable industrial plantations (37,000 ha
eucalyptus and 10,000 ha bamboo). In addition, FDC has planted and/or managed
coffee and cashew plantations (4,000 and 18,000 ha).
1.16 The Fr-' basic structure has not substantially changed for many decades.
Over time, the department's organization has become increasingly complex both
horizontally and vertically: new responsibilities have been accommodated by
adding to the existing structure or by instituting special programs. At the



-6-
same time, those parts of the department whose role has declined have not been
reduced or phased out. This development has led to continuous staff increases
but at the same time to uneven workloade among staff. The augmentation of
functional groups has resulted in territorial overlaps and
compartmentalization within the same geographical areas, entailing role
conflicts among staff and in relation to beneficiary groups. The geographical
overlap particularly between territorial forestry and social forestry is part
of this problem, which is likely to increase further with the addition of the
new function of joint forest management (JFM). This historical development
appears to have been accompanied by a parallel process e*uanating in many
institutional rigidities in natural resource planning, human resource
deployment, delegation, and in manpower policies generally. Presently a
system is in place whereby senior staff rotate across all functional units at
short time intervals with little scope for specialized career development,
continuity of tenure of important positions, or accountability for results in
the field. As a consequence, public forest management in Andhra Pradesh
requires to be made more effective.
1.17 Like in most other states, the FD has the primary mandate for the
forestry sector. It is now clear that the FD alone cannot reverse the
declining trend of the state's forest resources and requires the cooperation
and involvement of other rural agencies, NGOs, the village communities and the
commercial private sect r, as complementary actors in the sector's
development. The FD is aware that its organizational structure, manpower
policies, the skills and attitude orientation of its staff, and its general
efficiency needs changes in the near future. This, however, will require
special efforts (Para. 3.2). The FD is now also willing to concede a larger
sectoral role to other public sector agencies, the private sector and NGOs.
Their potential roles have yet to be closer defined.
1.18 Forestry activities are also undertaken by other departments and local
institutions. The Rural Development Department has been providing a large
volume of funds for forestry development on non-forest lands, mainly strip
plantations and plantations on common lands through its rural employment
programs. Funds for forestry related activities are also provided through the
Agriculture Department for the GOI's National Watershed Development Program
and the Drought Prone Area Program. There are a number of NGOs involved in
tree planting and associated activities in the state. While the majority of
the NG0s are very small, some of them have useful experience in motivation and
extension activities, particularly in regard of organizing village communities
and planning at the village level (micro-planning) for joint forest management
which is discussed in para. 1.23. in predominantly tribal areas development
activities (except forestry) are handled through the Integrated Tribal
Development Agency (ITDA) and the Tribal Cooperative Corporation (GCC) who
both have developed contact networks at the village level. A considerably
higher degree of coordination is required between the FD and other actors in
the sector in order to effectively protect forests and promote forest
development.
1.19 Taghn.o4gM. Lack of attention to productivity in Andhra Pradesh forests
is evident throughout the growth cycle. There is already a recognition in the
state that improved practices must be introduced as demonstrated by investment
in adaptive research over the past two years. The most fundamental
deficiencies are in seed and nursery management which results in substandard
planting materials. Restrictions on cost per plant have encouraged nurseries
to produce mainly species which are cheap to raise and retain stock that
should have been culled. Genetic recession is also widely observable in



plantations. These problems have proved difficult to correct due to the low
status and priority attached to research until recently. Another important
factor is the rotational system of staff transfers and promotions. Species and
sate matching should be improved to concentrate investments on quality rather
than quantity production and on products preferred by local populations.
1.20 pant DAveAInmQnt Strategiel. Traditional forest strategy includes a
focus on plantations to maximize timber production and enforced forest
protection. These approaches have failed to control unauthorized exploitation
and relationships between local people and forestry personnel became
increasingly stzained. The majority of the fringe population are unable to pay
for fuelwood and continue to collect wood for their own use and sale. Other
poor rural dwellers obtain their fuel from twigs, leaves, agricultural
residues and cow dung off private lands and dwindling commons.
1.21 Social ForAMtry. In the recent past Andhra Pradesh, like many other
states, focussed its forest development program mainly on "social forestry'
activities: tree planting largely outside of the reserved and protected
forests for local communities and distribution of seedlings to encourage the
planting of trees by farmers. CIDA supported a social forestry project in
Andhra Pradesh from 1983-1991 and is still providing limited funds to selected
NGOs involved in afforestation and watershed development activities in the
state. The project supported village woodlots on 42,000 ha, strip plantations
along 3,270 km and established 50,300 ha of farm forestry (notional area based
on seedling distribution). Similar or larger areas were also covered during
that time period by GOI and state government schemes.
1.22 While social forestry has succeeded in making the forest service more
people-oriented and in providing significant new supplies of wood, it has not
solved the problem of continuing deterioration of the forests. There are
several reasons for this including: (a) people were not adequately involved in
and did not feel ownership for so-called community plantations; (b) harvesting
from forests (generally tolerated although illegal) is much cheaper than
raising trees especially considering the need to use available lands for other
purposes; (c) social forestry has not yet produced enough wood and wood
products to meet needs; (d) most timber demands are not met by community and
private forestry produce; (e) some forest products (teak, sandalwood and red
sanders) are so valuable that the incentives for smuggling are very high; and
(f) focus on social forestry may have meant that funding for forest
maintenance and other activities has been somewhat neglected.
1.23 Joint I'orast Managari t. Efforts to involve local people in forest
management have long received sporadic attention in Indian forestry. An
innovative and experimental approach to the problem of people and cattle
pressure in natural forests was started in the state of West Bengal in 1972.
Local villagers formed committees and protected public forests in return for
free usufruct of all NTFP, first preference for employment and a promise of
25% of the net cash benefits from final felling of poles. Initial success led
to a gradual spread, now over 1,700 Fotest Protection Committees (FPC) cover
237,000 ha of forests. The model proved effective in further improving the
relationship between forestry staff and local people and in increasing forest
regeneration and economic returns both to villagers and the government. The
key factors that motivated villagers are regular incomes and explicit benefit
sharing arrangements with identified user-groups, coupled with a cooperative
attitude from the forest officers. The supply of NTFP increased in protected
forests, which is particularly important, both as an income source and as a
way to bridge the gap until longer gestation products mature.



- 8 -
1.24 GOI issued a circular in June 1990 supporting joint planning and
management of degraded government forests in all parta of India. Several
states have subsequently passed government orders to allow such arrangements.
The orders set out procedures for committee constitution, membership and
responsibilities as well as the benefits which are promised if duties and
restrictions are followed. Joint forest management, as a concept and a forest
management strategy, has been accepted and is being practiced in a rising
number of states. Initial results from these efforts have shown an overall
increase in the level of forest protection and productivity. Where equitable
benefit sharing arrangements have been instituted a net increase in benefits
has been obtained for both the local users and the State Forest Departments.
The JFM/FPC model has produced forest raw materials which are used to satisfy
local as well as urban/commercial demand. The increased canopy closure also
provides improved soil protection. The effectiveness of JFM in specific
forests and villages is variable. It has been most promising in areas with
homogeneous populations, in particular in tribal villages. These results
indicate that while JFM is not a panacea for institutional effectiveness
everywhere, it does result in a net improvement over current arrangements and
shows strong promise for reversing degradation trends.
1.25 Andhra Pradesh has only recently started JFM although various types of
schemes have been tried earlier to involve local populations in forest
development. Several non-government organizations (NGOs) in the State have
been involved in social forestry and watershed development but cooperation
between them and the FD has so far been limited. GOAP issued their JFM order
(which is being amended to better reflect the views of other organizations
concerned) in August 1992 and has since held workshops with NGOs and other
government departments about how to collaborate and introduce the model in the
most effective way.
1.26  Erivate Sector Involvement.  Farm forestry is well established now
particularly in the eastern, coastal parts of AP. Market forces appear to
have been a more important determining factor for expansion of farm forestry
than subsidized or free seedlings. Justification for continuing the
subsidization of seedlings is weak. The success of farm forestry in the long
run depends on the quality of the seedlings and good technology. Seedling
subsidies have inhibited the development of private nurseries and have been a
serious impedimant to quality planting materials as the focus has been on
meeting high distribution targets at minimum costs. Abolishing subsidies
would remove the onus on government to provide all planting materials needed,
thereby releasing forest officers from a task which could be done by private
nurseries. Exceptions to this principle are justified in poorer than average
regions and where seedlings are furnished to the weakest groups of society
(scheduled casts and tribals).
1.27 Although FD is now willing to concede a larger sectoral role also to the
private commercial sector, the forest industries have -- since the change in
India's Forest Policy in 1988 -- been effectively excluded from obtaining wood
raw material from government forests, and they have also not been permitted to
reafforest degraded or denuded forest land, controlled by FD, for this
purpose. This has left the industries with farm forestry as their main
supplier of wood. While the industries, in many ways, support farm forestry
on which they depend, they are unhappy with the policy because sourcing from
thousands of small producers is more complex and costly than procuring wood
from large supply sources. The industries would prefer to lease large,
contiguous tracts of land from the government. Since there are vast areas of



degraded forests and FD cannot afford to bring them all back into production
in the short-term, development with the involvement of the private sector
would be a solution. However, as of now the Forest Policy does not permit the
leasing of forest lands largely because the government is worried about losing
control of the land and a weakening of the industries' support to farm
forestry. In view of the nation's rising demand for wood-based products, on
the one hand, and the severe shortfall of wood raw materials, coupled with a
sharp increase in imports of such raw materials, on the other, a dialogue
between government and the indLatries has recently been initiated how to
overcome this issue. The problem is particularly significant for AP where a
sizeable part (13%) of India's pulp and paper industries are located. There
is a growing awareneas on both sides that, despite the complexity of the
issue, the modalities that would allow the private sector to assist in the
rehabilitation of degraded forest lands deserve review.
1.28 Eutur& Strategx. Building on the successful experience in other states
the forest strategy in Andhra Pradesh should focus on protection through JFM
and on improving productivity of plantations. Unless protection of forest
areas is firmly in place, degradation is likely to continue unabated despite
improvements in alternative energy supply. The existing state forests do not
have the capacity to meet the demand for forest products on a sustainable
basis. This problem extends to the energy strategy which could aim as a first
step to substitute purchased fuelwood with modern energy sources. Improvement
in productivity of forest plantations will both lead to higher production and
increase the incentives for private planting. Since unauthorized extraction
presently provides an important income source for forest fringe dwellers they
need to be made target of employment and income generation schemes if the
protection strategy is to be effective. There is no simple solution to the
problem of overgrazing. However, progress could be made through development
of high quality fodder resources and management of grazing areas which are
incorporated in the project.
Legasng frQi Past Bank WLndaiW
1.29 The Bank has supported ten projects in the field of forestry and
resource conservation in India with lending in the amount of approximately
US$ 500 million equivalent. It has assessed the experiences gained through
project supervision, project completion reports and sector reviews (Bank-wide,
regional as well as India specific). In the past, forestry projects in India
supported mainly social forestry and watershed activities which have had mixed
success. The involvement of local people in these projects was generally
inadequate. Many of the projects encountered implementation problems causing
delay in disbursement and completion due to slow project mobilization,
institutional weaknesses and insufficient local funding. The major lesson from
the early projects was that the programs were inadequate in scope to address
the complex issues affecting forests. Other important lessons include a need
for: improved seed and extension services; revitalization of forestry
research, particularly applied research at State level; more emphasis on the
planning, environmental and management dimensions of plantations and existing
natural forests; solutions to deal with the problems of common property rights
through a better local participatoxy process; an-I inter-agency coordination in
the execution of the various project components. The above lessons have been
taken into account in the design of the proposed project.
1.30 Recently two statewide forestry projects were approved by the Board
where forestry investments are linked to reforms of the forestry institutions
and policies: The Maharashtra Forestry Project (Cr. 2328-IN) for an amount of



- 10 -
SDR 88.9 million and the West Bengal Forestry Project (Cr. 2341-IN) for SDR
24.4 million. The proposed operation would build on the sans concept while
adapting it to the particular situation in Andhra Pradesh. It would also take
into account the findings of the recent Forest Sector Review (Report No.
10965-IN) which indicate that main strategic focus for forestry development in
the next decade will be to improve forest protection and managemnut. The
sector review shows that there are significant opportunities in India to
enhance people's participation in forest managemsnt, introduce technologies
which improve productivity and permit better land use, redefine the role of
government and revise the restrictive regulatory and pricing policies to pave
the way for private and public investments in the forestry sector.



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
Canntr Annal  naStratgy. Ratiannia. for Bank~Twl'mntadO41
2.1   The Sank's current strategy to support forestry in India as discussed in
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy Paper of December, 1992, is two-
pronged- (i) initiating concentrated efforts in selected states, as in West
Bengal and Maharashtra (para 1.27), to address forestry issues in a
comprehensive manner with the participation of all relevant public and private
"actors  in the sector, and to integrate forestry more closely with
agriculture and livestock; and (ii) supporting a program to strengthen the
capacity of the center and state technical and educational institutions to
provide research, education, training and resources monitoring services for
state initiatives, as in the recently negotiated Forestry Research, Education
and Extension Project.  The proposed project fits well within that framework
and with the objectives of the Bank's approach to forestry lending in the Asia
Region which emphasizes an ongoing policy dialogue with our borrowers
concerning key forestry issues coupled with major investment in the entire
forestry sector, and it is in line with the Sank's overall policy for this
sector.  Because of its support to Indian forestry over the past 15 years the
Bank is in a unique position to undertake the necessary sector dialogue with
the national and state governments to make the opportunities mentioned in
para. 1.27 materialize. The state-by-state approach parallels current
strategy for statewide agricultural and irrigation development projects. The
project follows India's forest policy (para. 1.4) and addresses forestry
issues in Andhra Pradesh including: (a) protection and afforestation of
degraded lands; (b) clear implementation and benefit sharing arrangements for
joint forest management between fringe forest dwellers, including tribals, and
FD5 (c) improved forest technologies and extension; (d) streamlining and
strengthening the forest administration; and (e) revised policies on selected
topics. The proposed project was identified in January 1992, and its
objectives and design are based on a January 1993 Final Project Preparation
Report, and an appraisal mission in April 1993.
PrQnCdet- Ara&
2.2    The project would cover the entire state of Andhra Pradesh.  The
population of the state is 66 million of which 12% belong to scheduled castes
and 5% to scheduled tribes (1981 Census). Most of the tribal communities are
settled agriculturalists with about 12% being shifting cultivators. About 71%
of the total population live in rural areas, the literacy rate is 45% and the
per capita income Rs. 3,364 (1989/90). The average agriculture land holding
in the state is about 1.7 ha. The state's main agro-climatic zones and forest
resources were discussed in paras. 1.8-10, and more details are available in
Annex 1 of the Implementation Volume.
Oblectiv  and St-ratg-
2.3   The main objectives of this project are to increase forest productivity
and quality, protect the environment, alleviate rural poverty and
strengthen/streamline sector policies to be consistent with these objectives.
Thls would be achieved by: (i) introducing local participation in protection
and management of public forests (GOAP has issued benefit sharing regulations
and  Lmplem.ntation guidelines for joint forest management);  (il) increasing
productlvity of designated forest lands and other marginal lands: (LLL)
maintaining and improving biodiversitys (lv) increasing private participation



- 12 -
in sector development; and (v) improving public forest management and
development. Through these activities the project would also increase the
subsistence and incomes of fringe forest populations many of whom are tribals
or belong to weaker sections of the society.
Tha B.form Pr6gram
2.4   Selected Sector reforms would provide the operational frmework for the
project. A Policy Statement including a Policy Reform Program for the
forestry sector, agreed with IDA, has recently been issued as a Government
Order by GOAP which has confirmed its commitment to carry out the reform
program (Annex 1). The key sector issues to be addressed by the proposed
reforms can be divided into three categories that are policy-oriented,
technical and institutional in nature.
a) £nolici±. A key priority for the project is to develop sustainable
management systems that foster participation and benefit sharing by
individuals and village comiunities, particularly in forest areas
that support tribal groups. Important policies and regulations
constraining the participation of the private sector such as land and
tree usufruct/ownership and pricing also need to be rationalized.
b) Tenhnnala: The forest administrations' technical capability must be
increased and improvements made to planting materials, nursery
practices and tree planting practices. Improvements are also needed
in the planning process and management strategies for plantations and
natural forests, including the monitoring of the forest estate.
c) InRtitut{onal: The forest administration needs to be restructured to
better suit its new roles including the JFM program, staff skills
upgraded and the policy analysis capability improved. Many services
and activities currently undertaken by the FD can be shared with or
carried out by other institutions such as village user groups,
panchayats, NGOs, other Government Departments and the private
sector. Existing research, training and extension activities need
modification to provide more specialization and to be more responsive
to the varied demands on the sector.
2.5   Some of the above changes can be made quickly and independently of one
another, others require detailed planning and evaluation of alternative
arrangements and resolution of competing political priorities. Therefore,
reforms as well as investment activities have been phased. A Policy
Statement including a Policy Reform Program for the forestry sector, agreed
with IDA, has recently been issued as a Government Order by GOAP which has
confirmed its conditment to carry out the reform program. Project
conditionalities related to the proposed reforms are indicated in the last
column of the reform matrix and are discussed under the concerned sections in
Chapter III.
Proje6t TnYestnmnt Cgompn9=tR
2.6  The main investment components of the project would be: £crest
inanacgœsn; aRnoial antioC programs in areas of particular concern (plant
propagation & research, training, joint management, biodiversity conservation,
fodder development, tribal development); and servien. s=rt for the VD and
the FDC.



- 13 -
2.7    Est ManagemanL- This component (US$ 47.6 million: 56.6% of base
costs) would support forest regeneration and rehabilitation development on
354,600 ha. Project investments would follow 12 agreed forestry treatment
practices outlined in Annex 11 of the Implementation Volume. These treatment
practices reflect the wide range of agro-ecological conditions and biotic
pressure in the state, and include soil and moisture conservation measures.
At negotiAtions an       nna wa     t           seedlings used for the project
shall be suitably culled in existing nurseries in the project area.
(Technical procedures for culling are presented in Attachment 2 to Annex 3 of
the Project Implementation Volume.) The treatment practices fall into three
broad categories:
a) Part4n4patoly Rehab4l4tntIon f          &Man   - This program (US$ 18.5
million; 22.1% of base costs) covers 173,100 ha constituting 49% of the
land to be developed under the project. These areas would involve
development of degraded forest lands under joint management arrangements
between fringe forest villagers and FD. 152,100 ha of the target area
concerns regeneration through protection of degraded areas with viable
rootstock. Enrichment plantings would be undertaken in severely
degraded pockets within these areas. The balance of the area, 21,000 ha
covers treatment of larger severely degraded forest areas (<20% canopy
density). These areas would be brought back into production under
multi-tier reforestation (a mixture of trees, shrubs and grasses) and
separate fodder plots would also be developed in some of the areas.  At
ngotiatignA an an urace was   tined that GOAP shall carry out the
field investments in each location under the JFM component of the
project in accordance with a microplan for JFM between the villagers in
that location and FD; each such plan to be prepared in accordance with a
methodology agreed with IDA (Annex 3, paras 24-31, and Annex 11, para 62
of Project Implementation Volume.)
b) P!rduction Forgatry en Forest Lands - This program (US$ 20.8 million;
24.6% of base costs) covers 104,500 ha constituting 29% of the planned
development. 59,100 ha of the target area concerns regeneration of
bamboo bearing forests and 30,400 ha new plantations on heavily degraded
forest reserve lands away from the forest fringes (7,350 ha teak and
natural associates and 5,550 ha mixed high-value species, as well as
17,500 ha high-yield species). The works concerning high-yield species
will be carried out by the Forest Development Corporation.  The
component also includes a provision for silvicultural operations by FD
to rehabilitate 15,000 ha of viable teak plantations. This sub-
component is contingent on GOAP establishing a mechanism to retain part
of the income from these silvicultural and harvesting operations to fund
reforestation and maintenance of plantations and natural fcrests.
c) Forestry Development on Lands outside Designated Forest - This program
(USM 8.3 million; 9.9% of base costs) covers about 77,000 ha
constituting 22% of the area. About 34,600 ha of this would be farm
forestry directed towards small-holders and would include promotion of
boundary plantings and agro-forestry systems on private lands. 12,375 ha
of community lands would be covered under a variant of the joint
forestry approach and 30,000 ha of private wastelands would be developed
in clusters using a group approach.
2.8   S=nlal Ant4nan  rggtama. This component (US$ 27.1 million; 32.3% of base
costs) includes several key activities that have been identified for
strengthening under the project: research and plant propagation, joint forest



- 14 -
management, biodiversity conservation, fodder development, and a tribal
development plan.
a) Plant- Prnspgation a     *d Tearch. This program (US$ 9.0 million; 10.7% of
base costs) would address deficiencies in seed sources & handling and
plant propagation, aiming at improvements in adaptive forestry research
and silviculture management (complementary to the Bank supported
Forestry Research, Education and Extension Project - see para. 3.6).
Infrastructure and technological improvements would be provided for
offices and research laboratories, seed processing and nurseries.
Research and seed handling equipment, vehicles and a library as well as
a speciflc operational budget for research work are included. Research
staff strengthening is also envisaged, backed up by training and
technical assistance from local and international sources. At
negotiatinn  asan  es warn obtned that (i) GOAP shall appoint
consultants, acceptable to IDA and in accordance with TOR agreed with
IDA, before June 30, 1994, to assist in the design of the research
program and in plant propagation (seed handling, nursery improvement,
etc.); and (ii) GOAP shall discuss with IDA not later than October 31,
1994, the resulting programs, including the implementation timetable,
and shall, taking into account IDA's comments, promptly thereafter
implement such programs.
b) Joint Fgrest Manag=gMet. This program (US$ 5.2 million; 6.2% of base
costs) includes a package of measures for transforming the problem of
biotic interference into cooperative government-people partnerships.
Extensive training for JFM leaders and FD staff in participatory rural
appraisal including gender issues, micro-planning and group organization
would be supported. Study tours would be conducted both within and
between states to learn from ongoing efforts. Various research needs are
accommodated through pilot projects, including NTFP processing and
methods of reducing fuelwood consumption. Better access to water can be
an important incentive for mobilizing community efforts. Hence such
facilities have been provided in the project as well as small dams for
soil conservation and groundwater recharge where necessary. Support is
included for NGOs to assist the FD in participatory management
activities (training/workshops, technical support, institutional
development, information/networking, and transport support). A State
Level Forestry Committee would guide and oversee implementation of the
activities (para. 3.13).
c) iondiyeralty Conservation. This program (USS 6.5 million; 7.7% of base
costs) would provide assistance to the state's nature conservation
program. Project funding includes development of an Integrated
Protected Areas System, studies, boundary demarcation, fire protection,
upgrading of roads, habitat improvement, captive breeding programs and
eco-development in and around selected parks & sanctuaries. The wildlife
wing would be supplied with additional buildings, equipment and
vehicles, staff would be trained and support would be provided for
incremental operating expenses.  n asance was obtained at
fi*jjoat4ons that GOAP shall complete, in consultation with IDA, not
later than September 30, 1994, the study for the development of the
integrated protected areas network.
d) Clahnrative Fodder Prga. This component (USS 0.4 million; 0.5% of
base costs) would support adaptive fodder research and development
programs in collaboration between FD and the Department of Animal



- 15 -
Husbandry and other relevant organizations (para. 3.15). Funding would
be provided for staff, vehicles and equipment as well as incremental
operating costs for forage research. Seed production/import,
studies/action research, training, study tours and technical assistance
are also included. In addition, fodder development (grasses/legumes and
fodder trees) is included in the treatments for participatory
rehabilitation of degraded forests.
e) 7 sbl DAvfOevala-t Plan. This pilot-type program (US$ 6.0 million; 7.2%
of base costs) would provide funds for activities, which are additional
to the JFM program, in order (a) to ensure and enhance positive effects
of the project activities on tribal groups and (b) to complement
existing government programs that are aimed at improving development in
tribal areas (Arnax 21. These include soil and moisture conservation,
water harvesting devices, improved agriculture production, horticulture,
processing of food and NTFP, and other eco-development activities. The
plan would also support nutrition, education and management training for
tribal groups. The success of this component would hinge on coordination
between concerned departments (paras. 3.16-17).  At wMtIntions an
aamur.Ane Nan ^btained that GOAP shall carry out the Tribal Development
Plan in a manner and timetable agreed with IDA.
2.9   Sarviae SuRW=pp.  This program (US$ 9.4 million; 11.1% of base costs)
would provide various elements of support for the FD as well as a small
support component for the FDC. The FD sub-component covers about 600 staff
quarters, 300 divisional and range offices, vehicles, equipment, training and
technical assistance, and incremental operating costs of the ED which have not
been included under other components. Among other things this would provide
for the institutional development study, work & labor studies, a forest
inventory, improve the MIS system and add GIS capability, training
(particularly to lower level field staff), and publication of envirosmental
guidelines and other materials used to educate villagers, farmers and the
public about forestry programs. The FDC sub-component includes storage
godowns, labor tenements, wells and pumpsets, equipment, vehicles and vehicle
running costs required to establish the high yield plantations envisaged under
the project.
Prajiat Costs and Finaneing
2.10 Total project cost is estimated at US$ 89.1 million, including physical
and price contingencies, of which US$ 3.1 million is local taxes. The direct
and indirect foreign exchange is estimated at US$ 6.9 million, or 7.8% of
project costs. Base costs have been calculated using unit prices prevailing
in April 1993 and is adjusted for inflation expected prior to project start-
up. Physical contingencies of 5% have been allowed for plantation works, and
10% for civil works, goods (except vehicles) and tncremental operating costs.
Price contingencies of 2.8% per year were added for the foreign exchange
component. For local costs, price contingencies were added at 6.5% for 1994
and for the following years at 6%, 5.5%, 5%, 5%, and 5%, respectively. A
summary of project costs is provided below. More details on project costs by
components and summary accounts are in Annex ..
2.11 Ejnjwanjc. The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 77.4 million equivalent would
finance 90% of total project costs, net of taxes, or 87% of total costs
including taxes. The Credit would finance 100% of the direct and indirect
foreign exchange costs and 89% of local costs, net of taxes. The Credit would
be to the Government of India, which would carry the foreign exchange risk.



- 16 -
The Credit would be on standard terms with 35 years' maturity. Duri"±
nnqtiAtins             co Man ^btAin.d_tUt GOAP would implement a system
satisfactory to IDA for channelling the funds required for the project, to the
entities involved in carrying out the project. An understanding was reached
that GOl would release about three months anticipated project expenditures in
advance to GOAP, and GOAP would promptly make available to implementing
agencies all funds needed for project expenditures.
Estimatd PrMeent (-ntm:
- - - - US$ Million - - - -
Local      E9=i=        vetal
Forest Management
Participatory Forest Rehabilitation   17.6           0.9        18.5
Productiou Forestry                    19.6          1.2       20.8
Coemunity & Farm Forestry               7.9          0.4         8.3
Special Action Programs
Research & Plant Propagation            8.2          0.8         9.0
Joint Forest Management                 4.6          0.6         5.2
Biodiversity Conservation               6.0          0.5         6.5
Collaborative Fodder Program            0.2          0.2         0.4
Tribal Development Plan                 5.7          0.3         6.0
Forest Administration Support             L_I          n.g        9LA
Base Cost                        78.3           5.8       84.1
Physical Contingencies                    5.3          0.4         5.7
Price Contingencies                      -1            Li-
Total Project Costl              82.2           6.9        89.1
1 Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$ 3.1 aillion.
2.12     *1atln  a * uselai. The project supports plantation works
valued at US$ 53.4 million and civil works valued at USS 14.9 million.
Plantation works would not be suitable for competitive bidding because of the
need for commwnity participation. Furthenmore, the works would be taken up in
small areas all over the state over the six year project period. Civil works
comprise roads, buildings, land development and survey/demarkation works. As
the works are small, scattered and spread throughout the project period they
would not attract foreign bidders. Works would be procured following Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) or force account procedures as follows:
(a) UC would include civil works for upgrading/constructing rural roads,
office/residential buildings, seed facilities, laboratories, etc. and
plantation works for soil preparation for FDC plantations. The works
would be grouped into convenient packages for bidding and necessary
land would be acquired prior to bidding. All works contracts would be
let using standard LCB documents agreed with IDA and following
procedures, satisfactory to the Association. Foreign contractors would
not be precluded from participation.



- 17 -
(b)  Yjc  AJ:ounI  would include most plantation works in aggregate valued
at US$ 49.0 million, and all small civil works located in remote areas
valued at US$ 10,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding USS 8.8 million and would be undertaken by the line agency.
These civil works are not suitable for competitive bidding due to the
small amounts and remoteness of location.
2.13    Ac£auln. nls.rnt antd 7ieR.  The Froject would require vehicles
valued at US$ 1.0 million. The immediate requirement of vehicles will be
procured following local shopping procedures (using available DGS&D rate
contracts) in packages below US$ 100,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate
total of US$ 0.3 million. The balance requirements will be procured following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures as per Bank guidelines.
Laboratory equipment, communication equipment and computers aggregating
US$ 1.2 million will be procured following ICS procedures. Domesticated
clonal seedlings valued at US$ 3.7 million for the FDC planting program would
be procured following LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Other goods,
equipment and materials, required in small lots by different implementing
agencies aggregating US$ 3.5 million, will be procured following LCB
procedures in contracts valued below USS 200,000 each. Satellite imagery and
aerial photography (US$ 150,000) will be procured directly from the Government
of India agencies, namely, National Remote Sensing Agency or the Geological
Survey of India. Books and periodicals (USS 0.4 million) will also be
obtained under direct contracting procedures. Small items of laboratory and
other equipment, computer software, etc. (US$ 1.4 million) and seeds would be
procured under local/international shopping procedures, acceptable to IDA, in
packages valued below US$ 20,000 equivalent each. Construction materials for
force account works valued in aggregate at US$ 1.9 million would be procured
following local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.14     The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of
procuremnet are summarized below:



- 18 -
(USM million equivalent)
----Procurement Method ----        Total
Project alement                LC        L.      O ner             Cost
1. Plantation Works                      4.4     49.0             53.4
(4.0)   (44.1)           (48.1)
2. CivIl Works
2.1 Buildings                         4.2      1.9               6.1.
(3.5)    (1.6)            (5.1)
2.2 Other Works                                6.9               6.9
( .9)            (5.9)
3. Construction Materials                         1.9              1.9
for Force Account                           (1.5)(1.5)
4 Goods
4.1 Laboratory, Commsunication A   1.2    0.4  0.1               1.7
Computer Equipment        (1.2)   (0.3)    (0.1)             (1.6)
4.2 Satellite Imagery and                     0.1              0 15
Areal photography                        (0.32)            (0.-2)
4.3 hooks and Periodicals                      0.4               0.4
(0.3)            (0.3)
4.4 Clonal Seedlings and Seeds        3.7     0.05              3.75
(2.65)   (0.04)           (2.89)
4.5 Otner squipment                   3.1      1.3               4.4
(2.4)    (1.0)            (3.4)
Vehicles                     0.7              0.3               1.0
(0.7)           (0.2)             (0.9)
6. Consultancy and Training
4.1 Overseas consultancy                       0.7               0.7
(0.7)            (0.7)
6.2 Local Con-ultancy                          0.9               0.9
(0.9)            (0.9)
5.3 Training, Semina- a                        4.1               4.1
workshops                                  (4.1)             (4.1)
7? Miscellaneous
7.1 Incremental Recurrent Costs                3.6               3.6
(1.0)            (1.0)
total                          1.9   15.6      71.3              *9.0
(1.9)  (13.0)   (62.4)           (77.3)
note: Figures In parenthesis are the respective amounts rinanoe4 by the IDA Credit.
other" methods inaclude force account and local and lnternatlonal shopping.
2.15     The Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for all
procurement under ICB/LCB. For comparing foreign and local bids for goods in
ICB, the qualifying domestic suppliers would be allowed a margin of preference
equivalent to the existing rate of customs duty applicable, or 15% of the CIF
price whichever is lower.
2.16             a=  Arvingn and Yraining.   Studies and other technical
services, both international and local, estimated to cost US$ 1.6 million
(international US$ 0.7 million) would be contracted on terms and conditions in
accordance with the Dank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981).
Training services, totalling about US$ 4.1 million, would be purchased on the
basis of relevance and quality of the programs offered by private or
government institutions, in consultation with the Bank.
2.17     Raviow al Qnntgacts.  All civil works, vehicles and goods valued at
US$ 200,000 and above, and soil preparation contracts and all consultant's
contracts valued at US$ 100,000 and above, as well as the first five goods
contracts and the first five works contracts, would be subject to prior IDA
review. All other contracts would be subject to random post review in the
field by visiting missions. Although this will result in only about 14% of



- 19 -
project procurement being subject to prior review, the nature of the project,
which consists mostly of plantation works is such that a higher level of IDA
review would not have a significant impact on procurement quality.
2.18 The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against:
a) 90% of expenditures on plantation costs;
b) 85% of expenditures on civil works;
c) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local ex-factory costs or 80%
of other local costs of equipment, vehicles, construction materials,
seeds, fertilizer and field supplies:
d) 100% of expenditures on consultants' services, training, NGos'
services, and studies; and
e) 50% of expenditures on salaries and allowances for incremental staff;
incremental operation and maintenance of offices and vehicles,
laboratory services, and report preparation and publication, on a
declining basis as follows: 60% until March 31, 1996, 50% until March
31, 1998 and 40% thereafter.
2.19 Disbursements against civil works and equipment, seeds, fertilizer,
construction materials and supplies' contracts exceeding US$ 200,000
equivalent would be fully documented, as would disbursements for all vehicles,
consultants, and overseas training/conferences/study tours. Disbursements for
other expenditures would be made against Statements of gxpenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by GOl and GOAP and be
made available to Association staff during supervision. Plantation costs
eligible for reimbursement include: (i) cost of nurseries, land preparation
including labor inputs for tree planting, maintenance and protection; and (ii)
direct supervision cost related thereto not exceeding 7% of the total costs
under (i). The actual supervision costs have been estimated at a higher
level. Expenditures incurred after March 31, 1993 to the date of Credit
signing for selected project activities would be eligible for retroactive
financing up to a maximum of SDR 1.44 million (US$ 2.0 million equivalent).
They include: training, start-up of JFM activities including NG0 assistance
(limited field investments in max. 20 VSS), upgrading of nurseries, forest
inventory/resource assessment and MIS/GIS, the institutional development
study, the Integrated Protected Areas study and seed collection for the 1994
planting season. All contracts and items to be financed retroactively will
have been procared in a manner consistent with above arrangements and
acceptable to the Association.
2.20 To facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of
withdrawc.: applications, a Special Account in US dollars would be established
in the Reserve Bank of India with an authorized allocation of up to US$ 4.0
million,the estimated four monthly average disbursement. A disbursement
schedule is in annemx_{. Availability of advances for project expenditures
(para. 2.11) from the Special Account would tend to speed up otherwise slow
disbursements in forestry projects. The Project Completion date is March 31,
2000 and the Credit Closing date is September 30, 2000.
ProjeCt Accounts and Audits
2.21 Project expenditures incurred by FD, the executing agency of the
project, and the other participating departments and agencies, which would
each establish separate accounts for the project, would be subject to normal



- 20 -
GOI and State accounting procedures and controls. Project accounts would
suwmarize project oxpenditures under categories to be agreed with IDA showing:
(a) actual versus planned expenditures for each month; (b) actual versus
planned expenditures accumulated to date; and (c) how financed for the quarter
and accumulated, by IDA and by GOAP. The summaries which would provide
information for the SOEs would form part of the project accounts, including
those expenditures for which reimbursement would be claimed with full
documentation. The project accounts would be supported by a listing with the
withdrawal applications submitted for the period. The Controller and Auditor
General and his Accountant Generals at the State level would be considered
acceptable auditors, and the consolidated audited project accounts including
the Special Account and SOEs, along with the auditor's report including a
separate statement on SOEs, comprising project expenditures of all
participating entities, would be submitted annually by FD, to be received by
IDA no later than nine months after the close of each fiscal year. The Audit
Report on SOBs would specifically comment on their usage and the controls
established to ensure their accuracy. The Special Account which would be
maintained by the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) would show all
withdrawal requests disbursed, amounts advanced and reimbursed by IDA, and
balance at the end of each accounting period: auditor's reports would reflect
the certification of the balance held by the Reserve Bank of India. VD would
prepare a project report on a bi-annual basis In a format to be agreed with
IDA, summarizing project progress in physical terms linked to financial terms.
The financial terms would be based on the bi-annual unaudited project
accounts.



- 21 -
III. PROJECT IMPLSMENTATlON
Oaani2at inn ai  aaAQ
3.1 The project would be under the overall control of the Secretary of the
Energy and Forests Department (EFD) of GOAP. A small Project Monitoring Unit
(PMU) would be established in the GOAl secretariat for VD to assist with the
coordination between VD as the nodal executing department for the project and
the other participating government departments/agencies, and to ensure that
these departments/agencies receive adequate funds for the execution of the
project (para 2.11). The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (VD) would be
the Project Coordinator and field level implementation would be channelled
through the FD and the FDC (under the control of its Vice Chairman and
Managing Director). Implementation of the Tribal Development Plan would be
under the control of the Secretary Social Welfare. The collaborative fodder
component would be implemented by the FD in collaboration with DAR under the
control of the Director of Animal Husbandry. Since the project constitutes
the major part of the development work that will be undertaken by the FD over
the next six years, it is neither necessary nor desirable to create separate
project management structures. Implementation of the proposed organizational
review would be managed by the office of the Secretary of Forests 6
Environment. Each of the other proposed project components to be implemented
through the FD would be managed by a designated Chief Conservator or
Conservator of Forests. Implementation of all project components would be
carried out on the basis of annual work plans including targets, allocation of
staff and financial resources, and an assessment of previous performance. The
componentwise documents would be consolidated into a projectwide draft annual
work plan by mid-November for (i) submission to the Forest Secretary; and (ii)
submission by December 1, to IDA and the Ministry of Finance. The format of
the annual work plan would be discussed at project negotiations and finalized
during the project launch workshop.
3.2    tl Rleform. As discussed earlier many aspects of the forest
administration in Andhra Pradesh require review and streamlining (paras. 1.14-
17 and 2.4). The purpose is to make forest development more effective and
productive, more responsive to peoples' needs and to meet the goals of the
revised forest policy. A study of the FD service organization is proposed to
address the identified areas of concern and ensure optimal use of manpower,
particularly at the field level. Changes are also required to increase
coordination and support field activities better. However, the project
activities would not be on hold pending such reorganization but would start
immediately after project effectiveness.
3.3 Because of the complicated and sensitive nature of institutional
reforms, the project proposes that the reorganization be undertaken in steps.
The first step would be to carry out a study of organizational options and
develop an action plan, and the second step to carry it out. The plan should
also identify potential actions in the areas of career development and
specialties within the forest administration for such tasks as research,
wildlife management, and monitoring and evaluation (Annex 6 of the
Implementation Volume). A .nndition of .ffentivenams vnnld be that
consultants, acceptable to IDA, shall have been appointed for preparation of
an institutional development study to assist in the restructuring of the
forest administration. At nntin.            nre-no  wa  ohtalnad that GOAP
shall, not later than March 31, 1995, complete and di8cuss with IDA the
institutional development study and shall thereafter implement the results of



- 22 -
such study in accordance with a time-bound action plan agreed with IDA. The
resulting organizational changes would be expected to be incorporated in the
next triennial review of Indian Forest Service staff.
3.4   ztan±ng. The project has many innovative features, involving the
introduction of new technologies, management approaches or modern methods not
applied earlier in Andhra Pradesh. Successful implementation of project
components with such new features necessitates training of staff in the
corresponding skills. Therefore, arrangements for development of staff skills
form an integral part of most project components. Arrangements for training
range from workshops and study tours to formal non-degree coursework and, in
some instances, degree coursework. The aggregate training activities under
the project will in one way or another involve the majority of FD staff at all
levels, as well as representatives of other government agencies, NGOs and
village samithies. Part of the training program is devoted to eliminating the
backlog in basic forestry training lower echelon forestry staff (800 nos.).
3.5   Training inputs related to the various project components are detailed
in Annex 5 of the Implementation Volume. Total expenditures for training
(excluding technical assistance for training) amounts to US$ 3.8 million (4.5%
of project base cost). This breaks down roughly into 20% for training
materials and to improve teaching facilities, 11% for training to be
specified in the Institutional Development Study (para. 3.3) and 69% for
various training courses, workshops, etc. Of the latter about 40% is for
training in joint forest management, 20% for training in the context of the
tribal development plan and 40% for training under other project components.
Pivotal to the success of this training program would be the early appointment
of a Training Coordinator (draft TOR in Annex 5, Attachment 2, of Project
Implementation Volume). An assuranl vas nbtalned at nagtiations that (i)
GOAP shall select the staff for overseas training under the project in
consultation with IDA, and (ii) upon completion of such training, post such
staff for at least three years in areas in which training was received.
3.6   R-starth.  The project would strengthen adaptive forestry research. The
programs to be carried out include large-scale verification trials and
demonstrations of technologies developed by the Indian Council for Forest
Research and Education and in other countries. The FD has invested a large
amount of money on improvement of research facilities and developed four major
centers which are strategically situated. Attempts are being made to organize
the research function so that staff can develop a level of continuity -
something which is badly needed. Contracted post-graduate Research Assistants
are employed for specific tasks which is a valuable step forward. At
tiations aesi a  was alan obtaind_tha  research staff remain in post
for at least five years to develop and contribute their specialized expertise.
An autonomous research institute which has been suggested by the FD would also
provide the planning flexibility needed for a successful research program.
The work should be carried out by staff operating in teams of different sizes,
sometimes one person and sometimes many each with their own special inputs.
The research program needs review - it lacks the focus required for tackling
the immediate problems that face the sector. An experienced international
research consultant will help replan the program and a priority species lists
will be drawn up. Two research "stream" would be developed, one for woody
crops and the other for fruit species.
3.7   Planning and Management.  The project would support an overall forest
inventory and the development of planning tools such as computerized MIS and
GIS systems. This would improve the base-line information about the quantity



- 23 -
and quality of the State's forest resourcas and address the FD's current
limited capacity for planning, implementing and monitoring large-scale
forestry investment programs. It would also relieve staff of tedious
oecord-keeping and enable them to devote their time to field activities.
A dnnditlnn of affe_%ivAren  would ha that consultants, acceptable to IDA,
shall have been appointed for developing the MIS and GIS information systems.
At n                       yod tha  GOAP shall, in consultation with
IDA, (a) not later than December 31, 1994, complete the overview forest
inventory, and (b) not later than June 30, 1995, (i) complete and operate the
MIS system, and (ii) install the GIS system. A work study would be done early
on in the project (after start-up of the institutional development study) to
identify ways to improve labor productivity, including a review of practices
and norms for setting piece rates.
3.8   All forestry operations to be supported under the project should be
included in the working plans which govern activities in managing the forest
estate. A number of these plans have elapsed and the FD is updating and
extending them. GOAP should take necessary steps to obtain operational
guidelines from GO0 for the controlled introduction on exotic species. GOAP
should also prepare guidelines for limited felling to facilitate replanting of
degraded natural forest areas where that is the only viable silvicultural
treatment. Such proposals need to be considered by GOl in a timely manner so
as not to hold up project implementation. Furthermore, traditional forest
working plans need to be redesigned to conform to changing and often
conflicting demands and include local participation. A process would also be
initiated whereby the formulation of working plans would be computerized,
integrated with the GIS and MIS systems, and synchronized with short-term and
longer-term financial planning. This process is described in Annex 4 of the
Implementation Volume.  AG aOtiatlons an  P         o was nhtainod tha- CAW
shall, in consultation with IDA, not later than December 31, 1995, complete,
under principles agreed with IDA, the design of new-type working plans for
managing the forest estate, and shall thereafter initiate their implementation
(Annex 4, paras 3.12-3.25, of the Project Implementation Volume).
3.9  rnF  Plantationn.  FDC would plant 21,000 hectares with fast-growing
eucalyptus clones. The primary purposes are to increase industrial raw
material supplies and to demonstrate high-yield forestry in Andhra Pradesh and
in India. FDC would in these plantations attain a per-hectare production of
wood two to three times higher than with its habitual planting stock. This
would result in a considerable reduction of the area needed for the same
production. The clonal planting stock would be purchased from private
companies which have (i) developed cloning technology to adequate levels, and
(ii) which can offer an adequate number of unrelated clones in order to
minimize the risks associated with too narrow a genetic base. The project
would finance the first six years of this investment (17,500 ha). The FDC
would finance costs after the sixth year when it would have acquired the
necessary expertise and facilities for clonal propagation. At neogtiations an
assuranne was obtainAd that GOAP shall make available to FDC land of adequate
site quality and in blocks of suitable size for the implementation of the
high-yield planting program under the project; such land to be selected in
accordance with criteria agreed with IDa {Annx 51.
3.10 RSodiver itSC C>n.eortion. The FD would establish a planning cell in
the office of the Chief Wildlife Warden to coordinate and guide implementation
of this component. The planning cell would be headed by a Conservator and
would include a planning officer, an education officer and a monitoring
officer at the levels of Deputy/Additional Conservator. The wildlife wing



- 24 -
would be strengthened to perform the new functions, such as eco-development,
in addition to its current responsibilities for wildlife management. AA
nrAe was oainAd at nagttattons t-hat GOAP shall complete, not later
than December 31, 1994, in consultation with IDA, (i) the transfer of the
required forestry staff to the wildlife wing of FD and (ii) the staffing of
the planning cell of the wildlife wing. Transfers include: Conservator 1,
Deputy or Additional Conservator 4, Range Officer 18, Forester 52, Forest
Guard 52 and Forest Watcher 93. The arrangements agreed for the forestry
treatments under JFM would apply equally to the protected areas component of
the project, including formation of forest protection committees,
coordination, training and NGO/ITDA involvement in such activities (see
below).
3.11  Apnroach to Joint Forest MianaaemAt.  FD staff would identify likely
locations for JFM programs in cooperation with local NGOs and ITDAs (in tribal
areas). An initial participatory resource appraisal would be carried out with
concerned organizations to determine the willingness of villagers in a
particular location to participate in the program. This exercise would also
give an idea of local forest product needs, the forest areas concerned,
possible treatment options and the need for complementary development
activities in each location. The FD would conduct a pre-investment survey of
the area noting existing vegetation including viable rootstocks and other
pertinent site conditions. After the survey the FD would provide technical
and economic guidance on a range of treatment options from which user groups
would choose. The treatments would be designed to foster multi-tier canopy
cover and multi-product outputs to meet the needs of diverse user groups.
3.12 The FD has not worked previously with communities in joint forest
management and there are many practical problems to resolve. Some important
aspects to be addressed in formation of village protection committees and
micro-planning are: (a) organizing groups in as small homogenous units as
possible taking account of traditional forest-use patterns and fair boundary
adjudication; (b) presenting genuine treatment alternatives advising committee
members on their implications; (c) incorporating social control for protection
and harvesting; (d) ensuring that all members (eg. women, landless, tribals)
are adequately heard and represented; (e) preparing transparent mechanisms for
distribution of produce and revenues from sales: and (f) arranging harvesting
on an annual or biennial basis to help smooth the flow of income.  The project
would seek the assistance of NGOs to resolve these problems and to strengthen
informed participation of beneficiaries, particularly women and tribals, in
JFM, as well as in community forestry (para 3.14).  AReRn  - are nhitaina-d
at negotiattons that, for the purpose of assisting in carrying out the
project, GOAP shall select NGOs in accordance with procedures and criteria
agreed with IDA lAnnex 61; their support would be maintained throughout the
project.
3.13 Basic criteria for achieving effective JFM arrangements were stated
above, and further refinements would depend on experience gained during
project implementation. The developmant would take place in a gradual manner
after staff have been fully trained. It has been estimated that the build-up
would start with 110 villages in the first year, 300 in the second year and
400 annually thereafter. The actual uptake rate will be linked to the annual
work plans. GOAP has recently re-issued the Government Order on JFM, amending
benefit sharing arrangements for forest protection committees called Vana
Samrakshana Samitis (VS$) to reflect suggestions by other Government
Departments, NGOs and IDA (areas to be protected, proportion of final harvest
to go to the people, special provisions in tribal areas, the responsibilities



- 25 -
of FD staff as well as those of villagers, etc.[hnnaz SI), and issued field
guidelines, acceptable to IDA, for implementation of JFN. GOAP has also
recently established a formal State Level Forestry Committee (with membership
as described in para 3.17 [a]) for coordination of JIM activities.
Appointment of NGOs to assist in project activities shall be subject to the
committee's confirmation.                            at no  tatinna tht (i)
JFM benefit sharing arrangements, agreed between the villagers and FD, shall
be adhered to, and shall not be changed without prior approval of IDA, and
(ii) joint accounts between the villagers and VD (signed by VSS and FD
representatives) would be used for JFM field investments.
3.14  _=reaah to Conununity and  arm   reatry. The FD would evolve a
mechanism for handover of existing conmunity forest plantations and their
management by the communities. NGOs could be of great help in implementing
such handover. Based on the experience gained from the handing over phase new
community afforestation works would be initiated only from the 3rd project
year onward. NGOs have been implementing several programs that are very close
to the Group Farm Forestry concept envisaged in the project   Initial
implementation of this activity would therefore be done with the assistance of
NGOs. By working closely with such NGOs the VD could gain requisite
experience .,in the approach and begin their direct involvement from the 4th
project year onwards. The project also supports a limited program of
production of superior quality seedlings for sale to farmers. The program is
based on reaching about 360,000 households during the project period with on
average 10-20 forest fruit plants (including tamarind) or 100 commercial
forest or miscellaneous plants of superior materials to be planted around
field bunds, in small patches, etc.
3.15 Fadder. The project attempts to address excess grazing pressure through
regulating grazing and development of fodder plots in forest fringe areas
under the JFM program. Effective fodder development also needs research, seed
multiplication and extension (para. 2.8 d). The VD will take the lead
responsibility for a collaborative effort to provide this required support.
Other partners include the Department of Animal Husbandry (DAH), the State
Agriculture University, the Central Research Institute for Dryland
Agriculture, the Indo-Swiss Project Andhra Pradesh and other interested
organizations. Basic seed multiplication would be undertaken by the DAR. For
production seed the program would rely primarily on contracts with private
farmers. Letters of Understanding for project activities are being exchanged
been between the FD, the DAH and the other partners for the collaborative
effort. A three-year action plan would be prepared for IDA review at the
project start-up workshop. Details of the proposed implementation
arrangements are available in Annex 8 of the Implementation Volume.  The FD
would take an active role in the development of a fodder and grazing strategy,
planned by GOAP with support from the Swiss Development Cooperation, to
decrease the pressure on forests from over-grazing (see "naL.J_, Reform
Matrix, item C6).
3.16  Linka tn Other Denartmnta. The project aims to increase coordination
between the FD and other government departments to improve forest development.
This applies in particular to the activities of the Social Welfare Department
and the Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Departments (as discussed above in
the fodder section). These links are currently weak and will be strengthened
under the project. The Secretary Social Welfare and the Tribal Development
Commissioner have been closely associated with developing guidelines for
implementation of JFM. The project also supports a separate Tribal
Development Plan to be implemented through the Integrated Tribal Development



- 26 -
Agencies (ITDA) (para 3.30). Agreement has been reached with the Department
of Agriculture for cooperation in group farm forestry areas as well as for
extension services to farm forestry producers in general.
3.17 To ensure that inter-departmental/NGO cooperation works smoothly at all
levels the following committees have already been constituted:
a) An inter-departmental Forestry Committee at State Level. It is
chaired by the Secretary Forests and includes the PCCF, concerned
Chief Conservators and Conservator (JFM); Secretaries of Social
Welfare, Finance and Rural Development; Commissioner Tribal Welfare,
Managing Director FDC, Managing Director GCC, Director Women aud
Child Development; and NGOs. The committee would meet quarterly at
the start of the project and later on a six-monthly basis.
b) District Level Foreatry Committees. They are chaired by the District
Collector, with concerned line departments, NGOs and VSS
representatives as members.  These committees would meet quarterly,
and deal with inter-departmental coordination for JFM areas, GO-NCO
cooperation, NGO proposals for facilitation of JFM, as well as pilot
projects for JFM related activities in their areas of operation.
c) In ITDA areas (para 1.18) there will be separate sub-committees for
JFM. They are chaired by the Project Officer ITDA and include the
Divisional Forest Officer and other line departments, NGOs where
available, and VSS representatives. The sub-committee will
facilitate joint identification of areas for JFM, village level
consultative planning through participatory resource assessment,
micro-planning, creation of VSS, and activities under the project's
Tribal Development Plan. It will also coordinate the flow of
resources from non-project sources (Tribal Sub-Plan) to JFM areas and
human resource use (Village Liaison Workers, Agricultural
Consultants).
Prining an    re
3.18 Forest products from the project would be marketed through the following
current arrangements: Produce from government forests would be harvested by
the FD or the FDC, and most would be auctioned in the producing areas. Farm
forestry produce would be sold as poles or fuelwood mainly to private timber
merchants, papermills or their agents. Most non-wood forest products would be
used by participating local villagers themselves or sold by them to the FD
(tendu leaves), tribal cooperatives (karanj, sal seeds, etc.) or private
traders. The scarcity of wood is acute in the State. Thus, there is little
need to carry out a sector wide market analysis although marketing
considerations should be included in local micro-plans. With regard to NTFP
the situation is less clear (with the exception of beedi leaves). Fluctuations
in NTFP markets are pronounced and so are the associated changes in prices and
profitability. Therefore, any expansions in production of NTFP supported by
the project should take place in the context of a market analysis. Since a
large part of NTFP marketing is done by GCC, it has agreed to arrange and
support such market analysis. The TOR for examining markets for the main
NTFPs to be supported by the project and the modalities for implementation of
the study would be discussed with the Bank at negotiations.
3.19 Most gtednjig= in Andhra Pradesh are given to farmers free of charge.
The free distribution of seedlings leads to several inefficiencies including a



- 27 -
mismatch between the species and quantities demanded by interested farmers and
the supplies offered by the FD, a concentration on quantitative targets giving
little importance to the quality of output, and wastage. All growers should be
charged for seedlings, even if full cost recovery is not achieved. In addition
to addressing the above problems this would also improve opportunities for
private nurseries to compete with public ones. In recognition of these
problems and the options how to resolve them, GOAP has recently, by Government
Order, adopted a scheme in which the FD would concentrate exclusively on
production, with seedlings being sold through tenders. This policy would take
immediate effect in the coastal zone of the State. In the interior zone the
present system would be gradually phased  ait by the 4th project year
(25%,50%,75%,100% cost charge for seedlings). The policy would also allow up
to 15% of total production to be sold to members of scheduled castes and
tribes at 20% of production costs. At negotiations assurasnos were obtained
from QOAP that (i) seedling distribution shall follow the above policy agreed
with IDA and (ii) GOAP shall adjust the seedling prices every year to cover
the full production costs, as agreed with IDA.
3.20 The current system for issuing transit passes for most forest products
entails high transaction costs in marketing some farm forestry produce
(although aix popular species are exempted). The system may act as a
deterrent to future private tree plantations, and has put a large and
increasing administrative burden on divisional level forest officers. As noted
in the reform matrix the FD should propose a limited negative list instead and
simplify the permit system by the mid-term review. The performance of the
revised system would be monitored during project supervision.
Annual Work Programs: Monitoring and ReRiorting
3.21 Implementation of all project components would be carried out on the
basis of annual work programs (AWP) and annual budgets. Preparation of draft
ANPs and budgets would be timed to fit the cycle of budget submission to GOAP
and GOI and to allow prior comments by IDA. The draft AWPs and budgets would
be prepared by project component managers, consolidated by FD, and a copy sent
to IDA for comments not later than December 1. The AWP/budget system, details
of which would be discussed at the project launch workshop, would be
computerized and would tie in with the (i) accounting system (para 2.21); (ii)
the procurement arrangements (para 2.14); and (iii) the monitoring and
reporting system (para 3.22). AWPs would also tie in with the new-type
working plans once these have been taken into use (para 3.8). All above-
mentioned steering systems would be supported by, and compatible with the
project MIS (para 3.7).
3.22 The responsibility for project monitoring rests with the Conservator of
Forests (Monitoring) in the FD and a designated monitoring officer in the DAH.
Activities under the Tribal Development Plan would be monitored by an
independent agency. Effective monitoring requires a well functioning
management information system (para. 3.7). Both the FD and the other
participating departments and agencies would maintain records of the project's
progress regarding implementation of physical and financial targets to be used
both by project management to monitor progress and to meet IDA reporting
requirements. Consolidated semi-annual progress reports, comprising all
project components, would be submitted by FD to IDA by June 30 and December 31
each year. The reports would draw on information from the monitoring and
evaluation cell and elaborate on existing constraints, and on how problems are
being resolved. In addition to the usual indicators of physical and financial
progress, which are related to the implementation and disbursement schedules



- 28 -
(AnDnO%.A, Table 3, and Annx_4) and to the detailed cost tables (Annex 12 of
the Project Zmplementation Volume), key development indicators would be
monitored as benchmarks for the project's impact according to its development
objectives (a&flfl*L Table 2). Detailed reporting requiLments and monitoring
indicators for the project would be fine-tuned and finalized during the
project launch workshop.
3.23 A mid-term review would be carried out by GOAP to evaluate project
experiences, particularly with respect to JFM and the group farm forestry
program, the working of the reorganized FD, the treatment practices under the
project, and the protected area management plans. At n.GOtfat40nn aseuranceg
were ptainad t-hat! GOAP shall, by December 31, 1996, undertake in
collaboration with G01 and IDA, a mid-term review of the project, and shall
thereafter implement the recommendations of such review. A project completion
report would be prepared by the FD and the other participating departments and
agencies on the basis of IDA guidelines within six months of the closing date
of the Credit.
Projegt RenefitR and Justification
3.24 Rsmafita. The project would increase directly or indirectly the
production of wood, NTFP and animal products which would benefit the rural
poor, and improve supply of wood to forest-based industries. The project would
bring nearly 400,000 ha of degraded forest and uncultivated land under
sustainable management (including non-forest land based activities under the
TDP), thereby significantly reduce soil degradation. Approximately 700,000
mainly poor households in fringe forest villages would receive direct benefits
from the project, of which an estimated twenty percent would be tribal
households. Women would be principal beneficiaries and scheduled castes and
tribes would constitute over 50% of beneficiaries. About 80 million person-
days of employment would be generated in plantation establishment, a benefit
which is almost wholly captured by the poorest and landless households.
Processors and marketers of wood and NTFPs would benefit through increased
supply of raw material.
3.25 FVnantalt AnalyMie. Most treatment practices yield FRRa of between 12
and 34%, with fruit gardens yielding over 50% returns. See Table on next page.
The NTFP have a major influence on the overall net benefit stream. The
treatment practices which yield relatively lower FRRs are those in which NTFP
cannot be realistically accommodated, and the high FRRs are largely
attributable to annual NTFP benefits arising in what is otherwise a long term
treatment. This confirms the prevailing view that NTFP are major contributors
to net benefits from forest lands and serve as a key incentive for local
participation. Details of the analysis are given in Amn4x. 7. Individual
treatment practices are described in the Implementation Volume, Annex 11.
Although benefit sharing reduces the proportion of revenue accruing to the
exchequer, a significant enhancement in absolute terms is expected since local
protection prevents degradation.



- 29 -
Finaneia1 and Vnonom4.c Profitahilltv of Yr",eamL= e raetieeo
Treatment Practice                               Financial Economic Financial Economic
Returns 0 Returns % NPV per ha NPV per ha
Joint Foreat manaaqmeiit stream
TP1. Rehabilitation of degraded forests:
Viable rootstocks and gap planting            20       20        3,609   2,842
TP2.   Rehabilitation of degraded forests:
Pasture                                       15      15         1,701   1,258
TP3a. Rehabilitation of degraded forests
in barren hills                              18       18         3,537   2,940
TP3b.  Ecorestoration                                n.a.A/   n.a.-A      n.a.a&   n.a.a/
Produntion P*eatrvy stream
TPSa.  Reforestation with teak                          13       14        2,581   2,767
TPSb.  Viable teak plantations                       n.a.hJ   n.a.hI    32,290  25,469
TP6a.  Non-teak hardwoods                               12       12        2,401   2,445
TP6b.  Reforestation with Ailanthus and others          12       12          702   3,690
TP7.   Rejuvenation of bamboo forests                   34       34        6,175   4,955
TPS.   High-yield production                            22       25       25,693  30.790
Comunity and Private Forestry Straam
TP9.   Afforestation of communal tank foreshores        16       16        2,505   1.986
TP1Oa. Afforestation on other communal lands            19       19        9,250   8,955
TP1Ob. Ecorestoration                                n.a.A/   n.a.Al    n.a.A/  n.a.a/
TRP11. Group Farm Forestry                              14       14        1,058      863
TP12.  Private lands: Farm forestry seedlings          24        24        3,533   2,837
vJXJb flQevea onmnt Plan
Tribal Development A: Farmers with podu land only    Over 50  Over 50     19,800  20,775
Tribal Development B: Farmers with podu land and         40  Over 50      26,878  31,787
agric. dryland
a/    Benefits are largely unquantifiable; therefore IRR, ERR and NPV cannot be calculated.
b/    Net financial and economic returns are positive from the first year on; therefore IRR and ERR
cannot be calculated.
3.26  EcnncmIe and tiana4t4vitY Analysin.  The eConomic rate of return for the
project as a whole (including all project costs) is estimated at 20% over 30
years. In addition, there are benefits which have not been possible to
quantify in monetary terms. These include, inter alia, increases in the
productivity of soils due to foreat protection, improvements in the management
of protected areas, enhanced capabilities of the forestry public
administration, more effective local participation, research, extension and
training.  The project's ERR is moderately sensitive to variations in the cost
and benefit streams. If all benefits would decrease by 20% and costs
simultaneously increase by 22% the ERR would decrease to 12%. In the unlikely
event that all benefits were lagged by 3 years the ERR would decrease to 12%.
Details of the analysis are given in Ananez1.



- 30 -
3.27 The project would have beneficial effects on the environment. It is
heavily weighted towards environmental improvement through community-based
protection of forest areas and vegetative soil and moisture conservation
methods. Recommendations of an environmental impact review, carried out
during pre-appraisal, have been incorporated in the project design. The
project addresses the following main environmental considerations: watershed
protection and management, including the prevention of soil erosion and fires;
conservation of soil moisture; maintenance of biological diversity, including
conservation of endangered plant and animal species, critical habitats, and
protected areas; limited use of fertilizers and pesticides; and increased
productivity in order to reduce pressure on the environment. These activities
result in significant non-quantifiable project benefits as discussed above.
The project investments would not cause any resettlement.
Intitutional Ipa6t
3.28 The project would foster a major change in forest policy from enforced
protection to cooperation with local communities. The state is committed to
this change which is based on experience in other states. Links are being
established between the forest administration and other departments as well as
with NGOs for the implementation of this program. The project would also
serve to strengthen the forestry institutions in the state. Moves towards a
restructuring of the FD organization to respond to the challenges ahead are
planned as an integral part of the project. The collaborative fodder program
involving the FD and the DAH which is being started under the project has high
long-term potential for expansion.
emaat on Women
3.29 Women are the predominant collectors of fodder, fuelwood and NTFPs and
would benefit considerably from the project. The proposed JIM forestry
treatment practices would significantly enhance availability of many forest
products that are collected to provide household subsistence and secondary
income. Effective participation of women in JFM would be critical to curb
illicit removals and to secure sustained management of the resource. To
facilitate the efforts to mobilize women the project would involve NGOs in
formation of village committees, FD staff would undergo gender sensitization
training, and village women would be given empowerment and management
training. Women would be full members of village protection committees and
women's subcommittees would be established for managing NTFPs. The project
would also support a study on rural women'a requirements and appropriate
designs for fuel efficient stoves in different parts of the state early on.
The efforts to incorporate women in all aspects of the project would be
supported by a new FD hiring policy to encourage recruitment of women as
forest guards, foresters, and range officers - currently staffed 100% by men.
A post for a woman nodal officer would be established in the FD to coordinate
and monitor gender sensitivity training, women's development activities and
project efforts relating to tribals.
Trbl Dvlnp  n
3.30 The main thrust of the project which is encompassed in the JFM program
will automatically reach and benefit tribals as they constitute a large
portion of the fringe forest population. About one half of the project areas
have relatively large tribal populations. In some of these areas over 60% of



- 31 -
participants would likely be tribal. In other areas, the tribal participation
will vary considerably with up to 50% in areas of concentrated settlement and
less in other areas. Scheduled tribal areas are those with highest
concentrationa of tribals. Outside these areas, tribals form on average
somewhat less than 10% of the target population for JFM. The results of a
socio-economic survey carried out during project preparation were used to
tailor JFM and benefit sharing arrangements under the project to the needs of
tribals. Tribals would constitute over 50% of village forest committee
members in tribal dominated districta. The project is expected to reach
approximately 150,000 tribal households inside and outside the scheduled
tribal areas. More details on tribal populations are available in Annex 10 of
the Implementation Volume.
3.31   TJU   JveDI M.t; Plant. Within the scheduled tribal areas the project
will finance, as a pilot-type operation of fairly large size, agro-based
production systems for part of the tribal communities participating in JFN
activities. This will be achieved under a Tribal Development Plan (TDP). This
plan will enhance benefits to tribals and has been designed, based on the
above-mentioned field survey, to complement existing development activities by
government in the scheduled tribes' areas. An estimated 23,000 tribal
households would be reached by this TDP pilot operation. its objective is to
accelerate agricultural development and eco-development activities in the
selected pilot communities so that, together with the JFK activities under the
project, (a) an improved and sustainable agriculture and forest production
would be attained at significantly increased household incomes, and (b) the
community's natural resource base would be rehabilitated or maintained. In
addition to activities toward improving agricultural productivity, the plan
would provide various income-generating opportunities and support general and
technical education and management training for tribal groups to facilitate
their participation in TDP activities (para 2.8 e).
3.32   It has been agreed that the TDP would be targeted particularly at the
more vulnerable sections of the tribal populations as identified through a
baseline survey to be carried out by the Tribal Cultural Research Institute
(TCRI). The TDP is expected to have the following impacta on beneficiary
households: (a) improved food security for chronically food-deficit
households; (b) increased incomes from below the poverty line: (c) gradual
reduction of dependence on shifting cultivation in the Reserve Forest; and (d)
considerable improvement in tribal women's decision making and economic
situation.
3.33 Implementation arrangements for the TDP would not require new
institutional structures. The component would be implemented by the ITDAs,
under tbe Department of Social Welfare (DSW), on delegation from the project's
executing agency, FD, and by the local organizations of the tribal people
themselves. The ITDAs have adequate capacity and competence to handle the
additional workload without getting distracted from ongoing programs. However,
local tribal organizations would be built up or strengthened during the plan's
implementation. There would be strong coordination at several levels between
the ITDAs and the nodal Government institution, i.e. FD, and at the local
level with villagers' forest protection committees (VSS), who together are
responsible for the implementation of the JFK activities in the areas of
scheduled tribes. The financing requirements for TDP would flow from the GOAP
Department of Finance through PMU in the GOAP secretariat for FD to the office
of the Commissioner, Tribal Welfare. Outside NGOs with expertise in matters
relating to tribals would assist in launching the JFM activities in tribal
communities much in the same way as in non-tribal villages. NGOs assisting



- 32 -
with the implementation of the agro-based and income-enhancing activitie of
the TDP would mainly consist of tribal villagers' groups. Plan iuplementatLon
would be monitored by an independent agency. This special monitoring would be
linked to the overall monitoring process for the project and the project MIS
(para 3.21). Because of the experimental nature of the activities under the
TDP, special efforts will be made at the mid-term review to evaluate progress
with the plan's implementation (para 3.22). The strategy for the TDP,
including its organization and implementation arrangements, is suumiarized in
ADosE_2. A detailed presentation is given in Annex 10 of the Project
Implementation Volume.
Rrc Rxkk
3.34 The main risks facing the project are: (a) the degree of coumitment
within some parts of participating departments of GOAP to make the necessary
institutional and policy reforms envisaged in the project; (b) the
effectiveness of people's participation in forest nanagement and development
for the sustained management of common and public lands; and (c) parts of
northern Andhra Pradesh experience unrest from naxalite groups which gay make
project activities there more difficult and risky. The first risk is being
addressed through an agreed sector policy reform program, issued as a
Government Order by GMAP, and through assurances. The project tries to
minimize the second risk by including comprehensive training for FD staff and
villagers in JFM principles, building links with NGOs and other government
departments involved at the village level, and by rigorous monitoring of the
process. As JFM takes hold local populations may become more inclined to work
with the FD, which would indirectly reduce the third type of project risk.



- 33 -
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1   At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from GOAP:
(a)   Seedlings used for the project shall be suitably culled in the
existing nurseries in the project area (para 2.7).
(b)   To assist in the design of the research program and in plant
propagation, GOAP shall appoint consultants, acceptable to IDA,
not later than June 30, 1994, in accordance with TOR agreed with
IDA (para 2.8 [a] [il)-
(c)   GOAP shall discuss with IDA, not later than October 31, 1994, the
resulting program under item (b) above, including the
implementation timetable, and shall, taking into account IDA's
comments, promptly thereafter implement such program (para 2.8 (a]
[iil).
{d)  GOAP shall complete, in consultation with IDA, not later than
September 30, 1994, the study for the development of the
integrated protected areas network (para 2.8 (c]).
(e)   GOAP shall carry out the Tribal Development Plan in a manner and
timetable agreed with IDA (para 2.8 [el).
(f) GOAP shall, not later than March 31, 1995, complete and discuss
with IDA the institutional development study and shall thereafter
implement the results of such study in accordance with a time-
bound action plan agreed with IDA (para 3.3).
(g)   GOAP shall (i) select the staff for overseas training under the
Project in consultation with IDA, (ii) upon completion of such
training, post such staff for at least three years in areas in
which training was received (para 3.5), and (iii) ensure that
research staff remain in post for at least five years (para 3.6).
(h)  GOAP shall, in consultation with IDA, (a) not later than December
31, 1994, complete the overview forest inventory; (b) not later
than June 30, 1995, (i) complete and operate the management
information system; and (ii) install the geographical information
system (para 3.7); and (c) not later than December 31, 1995,
complete, under principles agreed with IDA, the design of new-type
working plans for managing the forest estate, and shall thereafter
initiate their implementation (para 3.8).
(i)   GOAP shall complete, not later than Decomber 31, 1994, in
consultation with IDA, (i) the transfer of the required forestry
staff to the Wildlife Wing of FD, and (ii) the staffing of the
Planning Cell of the Wildlife Wing (para 3.10).
(j)   GOAP shall carry out the field investments in each location under
the joint forest management component of the project in accordance
with a microplan for joint forest management between the villagers
in that location and FD; each such plan to be prepared in
accordance with a methodology agreed with IDA (para 2.7 [al).



- 34 -
(t)  GOAP shall ensure that (i) joint forest management benefit sharing
arrangements agreed between the villagers and FD, shall be adhered
to, and shall not be changed without prior approval of IDA, and
(1) joint accounts between the villagers and FD will be used for
joint forest management field investments (para 3.13).
(1) GOAP shall (i) ensure that seedling distribution shall follow a
policy agreed with IDA, and (ii) adjust the seedling prices every
year to cover the full production costs, as agreed with IDA (para
3.19).
(m)   GOAP shall make available to FDC land of adequate site quality and
in blocks of suitable size for implementation of the high-yield
planting program under the project; such land to be selected in
accordance with criteria agreed with IDA (para 3.9).
(n) For the purpose of assisting in carrying out the project, GOAM
shall select NGOs in accordance with procedures and criteria
agreed with IDA (para 3.12).
(o)   GOAP shall, by December 31, 1996, undertake in collaboration with
GOl and IDA, a mid-terz review of the project, and shall
thereafter implement the recommendations of such review (para
3.23).
(p)   GOAP shall implement a system satisfactory to IDA for channelling
the funds required for the project, to the entities involved in
carrying out the project (para 2.11).
(q)   GOAP shall obtain, or cause to be obtained, in a proqpt and
efficient manner, all approvals and clearance from GO or its
relevant departments or agencies as may be necessary or required
for the purpose of implementing the activities under the project.
4.2   As condition of credit effectiveness it was agreed at negotiations
with GOAP that consultants, acceptable to IDA, shall have been appointed for:
(i) preparation of an institutional development study to assist in the
restructuring of the forest administration (para 3.3), and (ii) developing the
management information system and the geographical information system (para
3.7).
4.3 With the above assurances and agreement, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of 8DR 55.6 million (USS 77.4 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



-35 -
I1UDIAPae1o?
AH  PR~ADESHi FORESTRY POJECT        Pae  of 7
AGREED SECTOR REFORM
GOVERNMENT OF ANDHRA PRADESH
ABSTRACT
Forest DePartment - Policy for Forestry Development in Andhra
Pradesh - Approved - Orders issued.
---------------___--------------------------------------------__
ENERGY & FORESTS(FOR.II) DEPARTMENT
G.O.Ms.No..237                                      Dt.26-11-1993
ORDE-R:
Government of Andhra Pradesh has been implementing various
Programmes and schems relating to forest development as Per the
National Forest Policy. While these activities have proceeded
with  varying  success  the  normal  activities  of  the   Forest
Department i.e., those directed towards managing vast maJority of
forest areas in the State which are not subject to special
schemes haye been continuously declining. To meet the challenges
ahead in this regard, substantive reforms are contemplated in the
organisational structure and the development of human resources
so as to become attuned to the changed mandate.
2.   After considering various aspects of Forestry Administration
in the State of Andhra Pradesh and also the National Forest
Policy, the Government approve the Policy on Forestry Development
as detailed in the Annexure I & II to this order.
3.     The  Prl.C.C.F.  is  requested  to 'take  further   action
accordingly
4.   This order issues with the concurrance of Finance & Planning
(Fin Wing) vide their U.O.No.5735/PFS/93 Dt.22-11-1993.
S.RAY
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT.
To
The Pr.C.C.F., A.P.Hyderabod.
The M.D. APFDC Limited, Hyderabad
Copy to All Colleotors
f/FORWARDED :: BY ORDER/I /    
SE TUNurruXCER
SETICON OFFICER
- nergY. Forests, Environment. Sclenc
44 TebAojojy ftDcaitm  tyrabed



-36-
Page 2 of 7
POLICY FOR FORESTRY OEVELOPMENT IN ANDHRA PRADESH
Forestry develooment strategies followed in the Past have
been   ineffeetive   in   reducing   deforestation   and   forest
degradation.   This is due to relentless pressure on  account  of
ever-increasing demand for fuel, fodder. timber, etc.  Inadequacy
of Protection measures has also resulted in illegal,  uniregulated
fellings and encroachment in the forest areas. The dwindling of
forest resources has resulted in hardship to those living in
poverty   who  are  dependent  on  f o.-st  resources  for   their
livelihood, besides detrimental environmental impact, as well as
scarcity and high prices for eommercial forest goods.
The  Present degrsdation of the forests in the State has  to
be  arreSsted  by  a  future  5trategy  for  ecological   balance,
Preserving biological diversity and genetic resource, and to meet
the requirements of the local Deoole for various forest  oroduce,
as well as of society at large for traded forest-based goods on a
sustainable basis.
Policy Strategy
The future forestry policy of the State envisages the
following reforms in important areas of the forestry sector:
A. Forestry Administration
I.    The  forestry  administration  would  concentrate  on  hish
priority areas where it has a comoarative advantage or unique
mandate, and divest itself from activities that can be more
efficiently   Performed   by  other   groups,   including   local
populations. NGOs and Private industry, or enter into partnership
with   these.   This  will  result  in  better   management   and
utilization of available forest resources. 
2.    Where forests are under Pressure by local  communities  for
their livelihood, they will be managed for better production  and
conservation  bY Participtory management through introduction  of
Joint Forest Management.  The local communities together with the
concerned Governmental and Non-Governmental organizations will be
involved for implementation of Joint Forest Management Plans.
3.    The  forest administration will be streamlined  and  a  new
orientation will be civen based on intense local participation in
forest management, on the one hand, and realistic and flexible.
planning and implementation of forest activities supported by
modern  information  technology and increased  possibilities.for
specialization  and permanence of staff, on the  other.   Regular
financino  for  appropriate maintenance of  forestry  investments
would be ensured.                     *                      :



-37 -
Vage 3 of 7
B. Technology
4.     A   need-based,  oroduction-oriented   research   Program,
concentrating on a limited number of important forest soecies,
will be oromoted in support of a vigorous program of upgrading
nursery. Planting and silvicultural technologics in order to
achieve higher forest Productivity.
5.    Modern Plannino and monitoring tools, such as MIS and  GIS,
will be introduced throughout the forestry administration for
meeting the changino needs of forestry.
C. Forestry PoliCY
6.    Private  investment  in the Production  of  better  quality
seedlinos and in afforestation of wastelands*will b encouraged ad
facilitated. The needs of the wood-based industries will be met
through hioh-yield afforestation orogram to be taken up bY the
Forest development Corporation alone or in co-oceration with  the
industries.   Rules governing timber transport will  be  suitably
modified  to  encouraoe orivate  Participation  in  afforestation
primarily through farm forestry.
7.   Suitable measures will be initiated to control grazing, such
as encouraging stall-feeding. upgrading of cattle breed and
opening areas for grazing in a cyclical fashion, thus ensuring
conditions  oropitious for natural regeneration and at  the  same
time meeting the needs of local peoole.
S.    The  economic situation of the tribal  Population  will  be
improved through concomitant inputs aimed at higher agricultural
production and non-agricultural income by Promoting availability
of non-timber forest oroducts.
The  attached  Policy matrix at Annexure-Il  zummarises  the
main   actions   to  be  undertaken  in  the   near   future   to
operationalise the above-mentioned strategic priorities.
* Private and non-forest
Government wastelands
SECTION OFFICER
:nargy. Forests. Env;. ')nment. 'difl
AO Tcchaoiouy Dwtintutt hyderabW



suen  smaam  snzea R    OORV
coWl                                                             emii
A.
1, The VA Is Involved In      PA Is neponsible for more than    Pealle relative  trengths ad    Study to aalyze ways to          As cndition of ffectivene. anitable
almost all apect of            It can hande. Buslive              role of   . Concentrate  A on    reoranize the forestry        consltant. shall have been pointed to
foestry uhich are becming    disperlon of marce resrces          tasks that ned to be             Adeinistratton t(iluding       carry cut on inetitutionl developuent
icrasingly coupler.           weakens FA' effectiveness. The    undertaken by Goverment           issues pelled out under A2    study 14.2 SI  .
private sector hs be               tregulatices, protection of     tbrough A4 below) will be      At negotisticas, am provided
discouraged fro  playing a         foret resource, s ete ad        undertaken and Its             asurances that the study will be
greeter role n tforsttry           divert others to the private    recmendcatios iplemated.   discused with IDA end coMpleted by
dvoelopent.                        sector or other agenctes.        Om would undertake the        hrchb 31 l9" ed thut its
ietlew the strauture of the PA  rectructuring with the         r_tleadtions will be liplented
and design option  to bettes    ceacutrence of Col.           nacordin  to a plan  greed with UK.
met future nee.                                                t4.1 f3
2. Staff __agmat does         took of speclize  staft.           Create a nnpower pollcy whic   As part of the                   O   provided assrnces  at eotions
not enorage specia_ latio    DMpeOiNt to local initiative        wil allow specialized career   reorganlretion study hov"te   that the  eleettio  of staff for overeas
or dcetralized decision-    neded in participatory pso2ect.  deelcpaent. seword                   develop mnpower policy.        training will be done In consultation
liNg and promotes fast         Inreased betficlentc  In the       specialization in selectd                                      with ID  that staff dill lwlth the
rotation of personel.           _ement of foreet lans,           fields requirlo high levels                                     eception of exigency c_s    be posted
particularly In all those tasks    of training. roster local                                      umpon eapletic4  of sucb training for at
whch require coatinuity of         insovation and  ptaton es                                      least taree  ears -  and t leest five
staff,, suc  as research. Los of   well as two-wy plannia.                                        years Iq the ca   of research staff-
instituetlonl wory. too           Pridoe Incentives to                                            la ers In which trainng was                  g
frequent shifts In adnistrative   petformmce icluding awards                                     received. (4.1 gI
nor9.                             for ettective policing eand
protctlon wtrk. rnsre
stebllity of staff Il
specialized areas.
. Planning and montoring    Decisions are baed on lited          train staff on efficient         Under the reorganszation       Sultable caonultants shall have bees
procedures,                    Anlyticl inforAtion  nd giving   adlinistrative procedres,         study above, rD will Include   appoated to dovelop 6  and CtS as
llttle consideratioa to the       economec aalysis, plnsUdg        analysts of Methods to         codtion of *ffeCtivenes 14.2  iit)).
eeomi coeqauces of actions.  ad monitoring. Increase               implemeat effective            At negotiatioas OMW  provided
Lex adminiatrtive  ethods ailow    trnspanency of operations,      afeinistrative monitoring       ssurances that *a overview of forest
Inaetflencry ad foster            Chane amasures of                and coatrol, and to assess     Inveatory will be cmpleted by Decsmsr
altpractice". Pertonmce i          perfor_en.                      perfonmnce io relation to      31 1994, and HIS will be celeted and
measred ln tere of delivery of                                     Increases in output of gos    operatioal and 61S wil be litalled
isputa rather then actual                                           nd services ratber than to    by Jue 30, 199l  14.1 b ta) and tb))
productive achaventa.                                              delivery ot sitnts and
budget.
4. Itnuffiient  nter-agey   ftoretry devlopmat progrm              noorae siteragecy              Under the reorgaAlsatioe
linkae,                       los effectiveness in addreig         i                              study so  options Will be
local problem  ad potentials.                                      analyzed for  iMlenenting
cultidisciplinary activities                                          I
with Departmts of Animal
Nusbandrty Sorticulture,
e4wen, Police, Agriculture
*ad tribal Develqont.



-   ~~~~~~~~0WIo                                     mwa"m Com                   ams00 AN. AM=                      aN.DA omitu
S. nag" wmit  nos.            nOu do aot participae             Deelop l1htka with n0                 Coordinatint   COMttee    am  poded sweanrencs at
effectively In oicial frtetrty    nmnity to failitate locl   will be tarmd and a                neGtiatioa that IOO  *ab   be
activities and thu thali          participation  a forest         ine.ei o fr tatol lag VO    selected. for tbe purpose Of asiting
oweratv  advantage la planing  menaegmt.                          to planning and IMplentin    In carrying out the project, in
end helin  is the inpumntatio                                     selected project aeuvities  _COeOdo with IrIteria agreed with
ot participatory actlvitie is                                     will be deelpd.               IDA. 14.1 a)
net tapped.
6. Extensio  infuatructur     Inadequate disseaination of       Stregthen extesiaal stice       Slehanis Cor extenaica
nee  to be stzenthesd.        research results and              for tfer  toresty prgem.        sertves tor tar fotestry
Iolemeaettica of te fAw typ  of  Ibe use ot, A coaodiate          will be developed and sac
forestry oatlivties iolting       with. DOA etenosie              services extended with
local pextliipaties.              lafratructure.                  coordinatic  of 0.
S. 1
1. Pehonlog  Wlication        Present nursery practies aNd       nprove ned stot and ourstey   Seed procemet aed               GM*? provided asseraces at
culd bh improd                platlng mthods lead to high       practices. mprove capability    handing and nauery and          eOtiatitas tha  aendling  for project
pattclarly la sed             e_ccacic dad enviroantal Costs,  to desaig  technically sound     plantiag prctices will be      activitles will ha suitably culled  that
selectlion  anry              patticularly la tems of benteits  planting metho.                 Improved, tollowint            ocesutanns wll ha selected before Jeuo
opeatis and pantatlon        tforegne.                                                          specifically desigaed          30. 1994 to assist in the deign of a
Methods.                                                                                        programs.                      ptrgA for moving se  haing and
ersry practices and that sech
prom, incleudag tlewtable, will ha
4disc ed with IDA by Octr 31. 104 
endprtly Iplemeatd incorporatin
ID's comnte. 14.1 a t 4.1 bt 4.1 a)
2.  Rnseareh needs to be      Slow pee of technoloy             Stale up reserch progran and    Researb strateogy             C    provided *esaranoa at neoiations
better lnterated wltb         inovatlo.                        tailor It to ky develownt       identi ying prtiocity areas    that Suitable cosultants will be bired
ergent problem  in the                                          problem.                        for applied resarch and       to asist In the desin ot a resea
field.                                                                                          innovatien will be designed    proger  and that such prgrtan  Including
ad adopted.                   tINta11a., Will be discusd withb tA by
Cotcber 30, 1094 and promptly
iphISted, lnorporatig ID's
omats. 14.1 bJ 4.1 el
3. Forest working plan        Old working plans are bemin       Prepare working plans            oret for new-tpe wotking    At negotiataeon  0AP prowided aurances
need to coneftz mere closely   ineasingly lrrelevsnt  with     accordin  to new needs and      plans will be deelcped. In   that ew-type workag pla wuil be
to chanin  ad often           graoing discrepanes betwee         tavolvin  local partielpetion.  dolng no, planlng tools      designed and tbelr Implementatioen  111
confcting Nltipl dans    plan's prescriptions, actual                                           acb as  S*e 018 and 9PA       ha initiated by Obaeotr 31, 1915. 14.1
anrdncra   ra                 results in the Meld nd                                            will be sd. Forest             h t)
patUipation. Datt bse for   fiacin  avaleble.                                                  inventory will be crtied
the dels   aNd                                                                                  out.
il_mntati et af  -ty
wrkin pla   e act
tavable-
go



us                               SrC?5                         PROPOSED CRAM                 RCSONSS An ACloU                     PUEC? C00TI?ZNS
4. Coverage and mnagmnt    CoreSt Pa   do not cower All key    Pedeftie Ph boundariea to             Suitable chana In PAs will   At negotitions, GQ0IU provided
of protcted areas.             blies and habitata. SamePAs are   allow local participation and    be effected after I9*5 atedy   asearances that a consultancy on 39as
under beay pressure from local    the creation of core and           in line with the study'         wlli be cocplted by Septber 30, 1994l
populatlon. he wildlife wing Is    btffer  reas.                     rcomnedtliona. Statfing         that the tranaer of the requitd
underataffed to carry out now                                        of wildlife wing will be        forestry staff to the  ialdlife Wiag and
broader responsibilitAes and to                                       ncreased.                      atafftiag of Its Planing Cell will be
etfectlvely protect PM.                                                                              completed by Decber 31,1994. 14.1 dt
4.l 11
5. R"gulations restrit         gcontomc and eavironental oases  Clarify and espudite                 Working plan pre#sriptione
clear-fellin  as a              in all caese  where cleartelling    operational procedures for       for cleartelling in suitable
ailvicltural treatmnt.          is the moat appwpiate               1lited cleartelling of            reas will be elaborated end
treatent. Rehailtation of           natural foreats, particularly    isplaented after 00C
hhobly dewraded areaa i             an higbly degraded aeas.         clearance.
lnhbted, cosequetly                 Prepare and apply mnaement
sactrlfcng eonmic and               plans for  elective falling.
eanvlroeatal beaetita.
S. Retrictions on tbe          Since in may casee exotic            Inttoductton of exotica abould   Coattolled ltreduction of
latrodction of erotic          spcies are bighly productive.        be decided on economic as wll  cnotie species will be
epectes.                       th  regulation leads to a lose of  aa ewnir -ental round. SOMe   operaktioalred, supported
substantial economi benefito.       clearly advantageous specle     by adequate research and
should be approved as soon as    guidelines, and consulting
possible. Clear operational      003.
procedures for otbet species
muot be destgned as a matter
of urgency.                                                                                                   0
C. M    4                                                                                                                                                                          t
Ii) Pollets      ffee
tees& prteiolp"ates
1. benefit abaring             Derivation of benefits from the      Adoption of a benefit sharing    Cl er-cut benefit sharlag       Prior to project ne_ltiationa, fit the
arrangeents aned to be         designated forests  by villags,  system which assures                 arrangemnts wlll be worked    C.0. on JPM has been amended so that
speclfed.                      tribals sad forest dwellers Is       participatory forest             out involviag lotal             benefit sharing *rr anannts fcr Va$e
noregulated and *aset-depleting.   raagement under regulated         beneficiaries and NW0.          relecet suggestions trm other
coditions.                                                        overnment Deprtments, NODS and ZDA,
IlI) JFNl uplemntation guidelins have
been issued end fll) a State-level
ortetry citee tor eJn coorittln
has been establishb. At negotltlona,
OM*  provlded assuranee tht
investments to ranXbilitate degraded
foroet lands undr the JEW coeaent of
the project will take place only after a
J   mieropl an, agreed with the
villages end prepard in acordance
With a netbodoleM  agre   with IDA, is
avilable. At    uietiems GM*  also
provided *nuanc  that JEW bet t
saring artragmeats egrad between"
villagerns   d A"    wil not bm   changed
witbout ptiot aproval Of IDA and that       o 0
jolnt eccountn goD end VS  will be used
for JN field inestrnts. 14.1 J14.1 ki



2. Orgnimatiot of             lack of a clar strat     for        A strategy for the production    Nl with moat rarket
proctIon and markAeting       production ad marketing of Wl.   nd mirketing of the mat            potential will be ideatifled
of ur".                         rianotive to local                lupetant Wl should be            ndt strate    for
participation.                     designed. Te efficiecy of D   ratioaalising prodectica and
and Girljn Corporaten abould   markting and specific rules
be imponed  to keep costt       for beknfit *bhring w1ii be
within reASCoMble limts a4d    prepared.
optimi   mevn   to W11M
collectors.
poliAo s:
3.  Forest POicy and the       Increaad coats for large-acale    Analye form of parnterahip       private sector lveatment to
Coaeeratioa Mt do not          foretbeed laduatrial               With large private induatrial   seedllng production will be
allow prlvate iaveastmt i      productio uwich requlrea lare      eaterprlaea.                    encouraged. the FDC in
foreat Mad.. Goveamet          tracts of la"d for block                                           collaboratioa with wood-
policese also lidt private    platutioe  In order to opetate                                      beaed induatris aims at
owersbip of lad.               effictently. y ant allowing                                        takiag up block plantation.
private invearmeat ea  In                                          In degraded ftorest lad.
degraded lans oppotuaittie  for                                    CORa will remain engaged i
land rehabilitation are loat.                                      dialoue at COS to open up
furtber avewue tor the
private sector to inveat la
omercial forestry
4. Reatrictios oan tranait    Dialicentive to plantlag tree       Further liberalle trfait      fhe list of exempted apecie*
of wood.                       speclea aftected by the            rulea, keeping restrictloAS     will be aceaded and
geatrictLon. Rule leads to        for a very few, very bigh        procedueas for i*auance of
administrative malpractices.       pririty Species and amplify   transit pemits will be
tranait permt procedures.         Uplif led.
fll) DfiIag" PIe£iees
5. Govarnment aupplies free   Diaincentiea to private             bliminte seedlin  saidy.        Policy for eoaving seedling   At meiation. GMI provided
or suhaidized seedlinga.       prodectla of seedllaga. Owlity                                    subsidy will be foguelated     asacasa that seedling dltrlutioa
of aeedlinga  io poor and tbhs                                     and  plemeated.                mil be doe accrxdig to a policy
yield  are sacrificed,                                                                            agreed with IDA ad that sedlin  salsS
discoragng private planting.                                                                      prices will be ad5utad anually to
coer full prodct ina coas. 14.1 11
6. Coarnment allows free    ptbriced graing eacouraes             Analyse impact of applying      A grating policy that
graaing In foreat laads        nacreassa In the amber of cattle  grasing charges. Deign fodder  encourages nateral
well beyoad the carrying capacity  program ad provide icestivea  regeneratlon will be
of forest lands with the           to stall feedlg.               tormlated and Introduced.
aacciated econauic and
environmental daage. 
f0h



- 42 -
an-a 2
Page 1 of 4
TRTRAL n VLOP34RT RTRATRG.Y
1.    The tribal economy is subsistence-oriented and based upon a combination
of agriculture, forest-based activities, and wage labour. NTFP (gum, tendu,
honey, tamarind and a large variety of forest fruits, leaves, and seeds)
constitute important sources of items for consumption and sale for tribal
households. Past forest legislation as well as management practices led to
the alienation of tribals from the forest. The GOAP order of August 1992 for
the introduction of Joint Forest Management (JFM) is expected to facilitate
tribal communities' participation in local planning for replanting of degraded
areas, as well as in protection. Tribal communities would benefit through
increased availability of NTFP, benefit sharing with the government in regard
of timber products, as well as employment and income generation in forestry
and related activities.
2.    Trial sub-plan. Government financing for tribal welfare is provided
under the Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) which is funded through components of (a) the
state plan (45%), (b) plans of GOI ministries and departments, centrally
sponsored schemes (7%), (c) special central assistance (24%), and Cd)
institutional finance for the credit portions of beneficiary-oriented schemes
(24%). The resources available under the TSP have been inadequate to provide
comprehensive assistance and have led to a piecemeal approach, selecting a few
families per village. This has led to resources being spread thinly.
3.    IFAt Project . IFAD is supporting a project in 16 out of 32 watersheds
in four ITDAs for reafforestation of podu lands, improving food security, and
community development with support for education, training and health. The
IFAD assisted project covers areas outside the RF, and approximately 42% of
all households in the four rTDAs of Seethampeta (Srikakulam), Parvathipuram
(Vizianagram), Paderu (Visakhapatnam), and Rampachodavaram (East Godavari).
These consist of households engaged in podu cultivation. It is proposed to
extend the IFAD project to the remaining five ITDAs.
objaetivas and St Xat.gy
4.    The main objectives of the Tribal Development Strategy financed through
this project, are to ensure that tribal and other socially disadvantaged
groups living below the poverty line receive culturally compatible social and
economic benefits from the project. In addition, the project aims to develop
beneficiary capacity for informed participation in project activities which
would also contribute to the sustainability of the development process beyond
the project period. The strategy to realize these objectives would be to
ensure and enhance the positive effects of project activities on tribal groups
and to complement existing government programs that are aimed at improving
development in tribal areas. Specific action oriented objectivea are
presented in Table 1.



- 43 -
Page 2 of 4
PrJMn Ao
5.    The project area would include areas both with concentrated tribal
populations (scheduled areas under Integrated Tribal Development Agencies
(ITDAs) and Modified Area Development approach pockets and clusters) and non-
scheduled areas with dispersed tribal groups. Nine ITDAs have both wholly
scheduled and partly scheduled areas. In the wholly scheduled areas, there
are 5059 villages, where 75% of the population is tribal. In the partly
scheduled areas, there are 879 villages, where the tribal population varies
from 40 to 50% of the total population. Different tribal communities will be
involved in the project. Along with people designated as Scheduled Tribes
(STs) under the Indian constitution, special attention will need to be given
to the groups recognized as Primitive Tribal Groups (PTGs).
P=Rokd AGtiv1, =
6.    Six groups of activitiec would be included in the Tribal Development
Strategy. These activities, listed in detail in Table 1 include:
-     Joint Forest Management
-     Agro-Based Production System
-     Forest-Based  Income Generation
-     orientation, Training and  Extension
-     Gender Specific Activities
-     Coordination
All these activities, with the exception of JFM would be funded under the
Tribal Development Plan component. JFM is financed under components
supporting participatory forest management throughout the state.
7.        2DL.  At the apex level would be the AP Forestry Committee to be
chaired by the Principal Secretary, Forests and members consisting of:
Secretaries, Social Welfare, Finance, Rural Development; PCCF; Commissioner,
Tribal Welfare; MD, GCCs Director, Women and Child; and NGOs. This Committee
would approve the annual action plans prepared by the Department of Social
Welfare as well as the JFK plans for the ITDA areas. The Committee would also
monitor implementation through progress reports by concerned agencies, as well
as by appointing independent consultants from time to time for M&E. The
Secretary, Social Welfare, would with the assistance of the Commissioner
Tribal Welfare, prepare consolidated annual action plans and budgets agreed
with IDA in keeping with the overall tribal development strategy. The TDP
allocations would be reflected in the annual budgetary allocations of the
Forest Department, GOAP .
8.   EM. The responsibility for local level planning,implementation and
coordination of JFK in tribal areas would rest with the Conservator of
forests, DFO and PO, ITDA. These agencies would work together through the
DistrcLt ITDA level forestry sub-committee, to be chaired by the 00, ITDA and
Cr, DFO, NGOs and FPC representatives as members. The formation of FPCs would



- 44 -
Page 3 of 4
be facilitated jointly by FD and ITDA staff. Sustained support would be
provided by both to FPCs for their participation in micro planning and
implementation. Implementation of JFM through agreed microplans would be done
jointly by FPCs and F!D staff. FPCs would have the responsibility of forest
protection and participating in forestry operations as per schedule.
9.    Support to agro-had Productinn Systm. Oriontatin. Extonsion ani
Xxa±n,nM.   Such activities as will be undertaken outside the RF, i.e. on
private and revenue/community lands, and community groups' training and
support programs, would be planned by ITDA staff with participating
communities.  ITDA would facilitate participatory planning through
formation/use of community-based groups. Such community plans would be
amalgamated to prepare the annual plan for the ITDA, to be approved by the AP
Forestry Committee.  Implementation at community level would be carried out
through the technical staff of the ITDA, in conjunction with the community-
based groups. Financial transparency would be maintained by opening joint
accounts for specific community level activities, with community group leaders
and ITDA staff as co-signatories. Individual beneficiary-oriented schemes
would be imPlemented by individual households with ITDA support. The
agricultural consultants (ACs) would provide technical support to a cluster of
participating communities. The Village Liaison Workers (VLWs) would work with
single communities, to follow-up the guidance provided by the ACs, and to
monitor progress/problems, to facilitate the ACs' role. As under the IFAD
project the VLWO would be monitored by community groups and would be
accountable to them. The PO ITDA would be responsible for overall
implementation and progress reporting to the Secretary, Social Welfare and
Commissioner, Tribal Welfare. Training for participatory management would be
provided to FPC members by VD, ITDA staff and experienced NGOs. Details of
other training programs are presented in Annex 5 of the Project Imple entation
Volume.
10.  Selection CriteriA.  The areas to be covered by the TDP will consist of
those which respond positively to the opportunity of JFM. On this basis
villages will be jointly selected for JFM by FD and ITDA staff. Such
villages/hamlets will be covered by the TDP. Within such JFM villages,
beneficiary households will be selected as per the following criteria :
(i)   such households must be members of communities participating in
JFM under the project;
(ii) they must be members of the Forest Protection Committees;
(iii) they must participate fully in the discharge of responsibilities
of FPC members, of forest protection and rehabilitation;
(iv) they should be below the poverty line; and
(v) they should not have been assisted by the IFAD project for similar
activities.



- 45 -
Page 4 of 4
Funding Under the Progejt
11.   The project TDP will provide US$ 6 million towards activities to support
agro-based production systems, and education and training. In addition, the
GOAP has agreed to channel resources on a priority basis to areas coming under
JFM, for basic social and economic development programs, and for credit for
beneficiary-oriented schemes.
12.  Links to IFAD Project. The project TDP will be complementsry to the new
IFAD project. The programs being implemented are mainly in agriculture and
agro-based activities, as well as support activities in education, health and
infrastructure creation. The project TDP will provide additional finance to
cover remaining households/villages not covered under the IFAD project, i.e.
landless tribal and disadvantaged households engaged in NTIP collection and
podu cultivation. The proposed extension of the IFAD project would bring in
additional staff resources into five ITDAs but there would be a single line
administration under the PO. The additional financing under the project TDP
is not expected to exceed absorption capacity in the four XTDAs covered under
the IFAD project.
13.  Flow of funds.  The financing requirements under the TDP would be
reflected in the annual budget of the Forest Department GOAP. Funds would
flow through the Project Monitoring Unit in the GOAP Secretariat for FD, to
the Office of the Commissioner, Tribal Welfare, and thereon to ITDAs gradually
being brought under JFM. The fund flows would be linked to the uptake of JFM
under the project. The ITDAs would utilize TDP funds according to project
objectives and TDP activities. Project accounts would be separately
maintained. TDP funds for specific local level activities would be put into
accounts to be operated by ITDA technical staff and community group leaders
jointly.
14.  Timing of           ation (Refer to   at Table no. A In An
Prnject Tmlmntation Volum").  Under the TDP, the support to agro-based
production systems, i.e. podu land rehabilitation and horticulture
development, would be taken up on a staggered basis with less hectarage in
year 1 and increasing hectarage in years 2-4, and reduced area in the last two
years. Supplies of equipment and inputs to beneficiary households would be
taken up in year 2 of the project with reduced coverage in years 5 and 6.
Water harvesting structures would be constructed from year 1 onwards.
Research and training for NTFP would be undertaken from year 1 with reduction
in intensity in years 5 and 6. Training of communities in participatory
management, JFM would commence from year 1 and would continue till year 6 of
the project.
Monitoring
15. Monitoring of physical and institutional achievements and financial
progress would be carried out on a six-monthly basis by an independent agency
to be contracted by the AP Forestry Committee. Broad monitoring activities
and responsibilities are given in Table 3. Monitoring indicators are
described in Annex 10 of the Project Implementation Volume and would be
further elaborated during the project launch workshop.



mSnWRA PSIn! R VMTRY PROJRL"
Potential Impact/                         Mitigatory/Development Action                                 Implementing Agency
Objective
mN vR v imaN
1. No negative impact should be    1. Customary rights of tribal communities to forests adjoining           FD
created upon tribal                  their habitats, to be worked into the Joint Forest Management    ITDA            IAPFC
communities traditional links        Plans, through Participatory Resource Appraissls and                NGO
with forests.                        microplanning with the tribal communities.                          Comaunity
2. Demarcation of village and forest boundaries through joint          FD           I
mapping, during PRA at village level of habitations and            ITDA         I APFC
forest area customarily used.                                      NGO          I
Community
3. Majority of members of FPCs in Scheduled Areas to consist of        FD          I
indigenous tribal groups.                                          ITDA         I APFC
NGO         1
Community 1
4. Planning of areas to be taken up for JFM within local forest
resource areas should be done jointly with the tribal
coMmunities, so as to ensure that existing patterns of
livelihood based upon livestock grazing, beedi leaf
collection, etc., are not threatened.
S. Species selection should be done jointly by the FD, and the         FD
tribal oommunities, particularly women, and the                    Community
representative of GCC, so as to ensure the flow of NTFP,
incomes and food during lean periods from the forests.
6. Usufructuary benefits should be provided to the tribal
communities primarily, and after saturation of their
requirements, to non-tribals.                                                                   'U



Potential lmpact/                         Mitigatory/Developm.nt Action                                    Implementing Agency
Objective
AcuO-lSIm PROnDTTOW RYSTW4
2. Development activities to         1. Support to increase productivity and sustainability of              ITDA / APPC
support tribal agriculture in        agriculture practiced by tribals both in settled and shifting
settled and shifting areas.          systems of cultivation, through land development measures,
improved access to agriculture credit, support for
horticulture, etc.
2. Multi-tier plantations in JFM areas, with food, fodder and          FD, ITDA / APFC
fruit, as well as fuel varieties, through cooperation with
shifting cultivators.
=z-BAn             _ eyxVgArTnu
3. Protection of the culture and   1. No resettlement of such groups.                                       FD   APFC
livelihood systems of food
gathering and hunting             2. Recruitment of such tribals as forest quards and watchers.
communities living in the
core areas of the wild-life       3. Exclusive right to such groups for NTKP collection.                    U
sanctuary.
4. Enrichment plantation with NTFP species, particularly gum
karaya trees among others.
5. Fringe area populations should be involved in JFM, without
prejudice to customary rights of core area tribals to trees
in the fringe area.
4. To increase tribal incomes        1. Support for NTFP processing through tribal producer groups,         ITDA, GCC / APFC
through value adding                 particularly women's groups.
activities.
2. Provision of a share of profits arising out of beedi leaf          FD / APFC
sales by FD, to tribal beedi leaf collectors.
0
"
O S
Oe.



Potential  ipact/                         Mitigatory/Developeent Action                                     Implementing Agency
Objective
OR U Y O . .  _  _                                                                                        .  .    _  _  _
E1mm
S. To facilitate informed             1. Training of communities in organization and management skills    ITDA,  GO0/ APFC
participation by tribals             by  GOs, ITDA.
2. Training programs for momen.                                        PD, ITDA / APFC
3. Establishment of FPCs.
4. Deployw nt of tribal Village Liaison Workers to facilitate          ITDA f APFC
tribal participation in JFI, and other development
activities.
S. Recruitment to posts of forest guards, watchers, in tribal          FD / APFC
areas to be 100% reserved for tribals, 50% of posts to be
filled by women.
6. Sensitization of staff to tribal socio-economic pattern.            FD / APFC
6. Women's access to resources.      1. Equal participation in FPC.                                          FD
2. TrainiAg and organization                                           ITDA, VWO /
3. Value adding processing activities through women's                  ITDA, GCC / APFC
organi2ations.
4. Access to institutional finance.                                    GCc
S. Gender sensitive reporting.                                         PD, ITDA
6. Gender sensitive trainlng for staff.                                FD
7. Woman nodal officer for women's development activities.             VD                           I



Potential IMpact/                        Mitigatory/Development Action                                    Iaplemnting Agency
Objective
7. Social Development of             1. FD coordination with GCC, ITDA, for improving the socio-           FD, ITDA I APFC
tribals.                             economic status of such comunities.                               GCC M
2. TDP to dovetail with existing GOAP and IFAD programs to be         ITDA / APFC
implemented in project areas with tribal populations to
ensure provision of infrastructural support, and support
services.
£
0
WhFO



XUDZL
PRAFSlU   S51591Y PRO""CY
Agency                                       Mesbers                                       Functions
AP Forestry Cosittea (APFC).   Committee to be chaired by the Principal          1.  Approval of JFH plans in TDP areas, and TD?
secretary, Forest, GCP, members including            action plan & budget; monitoring and
Secretaries, Social Welfare, Rural                   evaluation of TDP implementation through
Development, Finance, PCC?, Tribal Welfare           regular receipt and assessment of progress
Commissioner, M.D., GCC, Director, Women A           reports form implementing agencies:
Child Development, Representative from               appointment of consultants at appropriate
Andhra Pradesh Scbeduled Tribe Finance               intervals for MSE.
Corporation (APSTFC), NGO Representatives.
2. Coordination of implementation functions
between rorest Department, and Trlbal
Development Department and specialized
agencies.
3.  To suggest from time to time further                   4n
developments, and activities, to ensure                0
improved participation of tribal populations           I
in project a&.tivities, and. accrual of
culturally compatible benefits to them.
District Forestry Sub-           To be convened by the PO, ITDA, other            1.  In charge of JFK planning for TDP areas.
Committee for ITDA areas.        members include CF, Dy. CF, GCC
representative, DOA, DOAH, other concerned      2.  In charge of regular implementation of the
development agencies, local NCOs vherever            Tribal Development Plan.
available, NGO (IPRA training),
Representatives of Tribal Communities.          3.  Coordination of activities trom all concerned
agencies, to ensure comeon approaches between
FD, and ITDA for potential JFW areas:
4. Coordinatlon of PRA actlvities including
training, *liro plan prparation.
5.  Reporting Quarterly to the AP  etreetry              I
Committee.



Agency                                        Members                                       Functions
ITDA      t State                PO and subject matter specialists                 Implementation of tribal development activities
GCC       I Tribal               6CC                                               in JFN areas.
APSFC    / Development           APSTFC
/ Agencies.                                                             1,  Joint identification of JFM areas inside the
Under Social                                                                 RF with FQ and tribal communities, through
Welfare Department                                                           PRA activities.
2.  On the basis of micro plans drawn up with
tribal community participation, follow-up
actions to be identified for non-RF areas for
integrated tribal development activities,
d&awing resources from the state Tribal Sub-
Plan, as vell as the project TDP.
3.  Interaction with the FPCs, to identify
supplementary economic activities preferred
by sub-groups (e.g. women's groups), training
needs of particular groups, and provision for
these.
Forest Department                Conservator, DFO, and support staff.              Implementation on a day to day basis of micro
planning, in coordination with ITDA, MGOs,
leadinq to JFM based group formation,
coordination of training ln PRA for ITDA, FD,
communities, and NGOs where available.
Forest Protection Committees    FPC to be formed through PRA with FO staff,    1. Community based planning of total village
ITDA staff, communities.  Men and Women             resource development, forestry resource
members of participating communities                protection and regeneration: benetit sharing
with FD.
2. Other development activities to support
production systems that are well adapted to
the needs and environment of trlbal people;
_ ,l



Aqency                                         Members                                        Functions
3. Development activities to support production
systems under stress to attain sustainability
levels (Podu cultivation on non-RP lands, NTFP
collection and processing).
Village Liaison Worker            Member of the local tribal community,             1. To carry out on a day to day basis,
accountable to the FPC                               coordination with the FPC for JFM activities.
2. To act as a facilitator for JFM and other
development activities to be supported under
the TDP (organize grain banks, women's group
formation for economic activities, thrift and
savings, assist in the organization of
training, credit programs and other activities
to be locally determined).
NGOs                              To be selected as per criteria provided in        1. To provide training in PRA in actual field                 Un
Annex 6.                                             locations to FD, ITDA and tribal communitiest
and to facilitate micro planning.
2. To provide training to tribal communities
(including women members) in management and
articulation skills, as well as in
organization and leadership development.
0



TINTA
AUTIRRA PR~AD5h1 FRESTRY P.RTMP
?d(NTYoDtNU. aNnl RVAnTIMTO
Agency                                            Function                                           Comments
AP Forestry Committee                         Will be responsible for the overall            Overall program and progress of TDP to
monitoring of the implementation of the       be assessed during mid-term review.
TOP, and inter agency coordination.
Independent Consultant to be Appointed        Will assist the APFC in carrying out
by APFC                                       periodical evaluation of progress, and
in the compilation of data collected
from implementing agencies.
Trained Tribal Participant, Village           The members of the tribal community vho        Such village liaison workers wil; be
Liaison Worker                                have been trained to assist in the            trained in monitoring aspects.
implementation of TDP will also be                                                                  Li
involved in maintaining records and
collecting data to be passed on to APFC
through district forestry sub-
committees.



0
........... ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,, ,, , ,, ., .,,,,,..,, ,, , ,, .................................................................,,,,,,,,,,,.,.,,.,.,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,.,,,, ,,,, ,..,....................................... ,,.,......................................~
..~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g .L .ema
....Ss,   ........  ................ ........  a....... .......  ......... ....g..                      .  ......... .....   ......... .....*... .........
; Ot-Ua se's s-crc rWi'ce'.. 'Sewi tssaa'a  s -cc's i-s  'u*ts't issiaw cii weS8  a'ssratU emi"l,  'c- i.                                                   ns a's'                                                  sva F asses
........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ .......  ...........  ........................................................................... .....................................
*'st0Ot   I'lYl    0,99    ol gt'           VO '        1 ft'   n-6'   I't'      lo" 'tA  I'Mg-g   0'§lt-9        'SI9  tt            IsW'g   6'$9t'@l  9'Me'@ IslISt                 l   IillEJ  F1~1                Utlitt I
s    is  ruse,  ems   I 6901        us't Is'i etsI   c- ttt'   u                  'Otst    -tSI tstWt             IS',1s;    £159S  SgeSIV   * iW1t 4                    lSlSWUtINl 81135             IU UlS 5S l '@ 5-'-      i
........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ .......  ............................................................. . I....................... .....................................
V-st       I           S-i      e.g         9t          I        $'M s    *- 's                       iw't" lS    US          I55         fsow        SltZ LW't                         -10 *'tUSS
t *to'   9           9 u        i's 9o  us            VM *      z Xt   1l 3   9s 'I        9',-g      s lot* IF Is 191 *           W119* -  ''t s      -89 t 91 la                                               soIso
#Ae    i U    a is  1               Iat    s IS   l-s tl            es   I NIt            s 'i         'u        a1             e sa*c g  u-It  Liss                            INUMsS§"  Si3Mi  Wl  W ISI1
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ .....  ..........
<             t $rest a-lS't itel'$Sl' s-e    cuss  a se'ts- isi6s's  a suites  s-s g     sesl'U%'I  s-ss    sauss  g-cs  ecusstiiMt tl                                                         tl MUSS twlUst aUims
INm mmc amim ian ts's I~
s-sic     es.        5,5 9   S   VV -es % 'S   Is   *,ms's   'S-Is         i-scsi.       I-i    I2*  4  9 -sis    a      sse I '-S i'tss   c's    isaac                                    swam           Not  e   'ecaus 101'a- 
tOll§%  0            *U I    sa  *-s.  *S Cu '    lSP'S   i ir'1   5t 55    68 flC *u1    cus  'at  855  .15'&    *n Li '5   55855    5 ii e'5       -ac '*                                      mu  uiu       e l sutles
Igot's-   s $90      S B§t'   SUS Wt- l  t '   VS0-               6 Go     6 "l 1"9 t            R 9 -$ IS *1       US is  #30 is ms       los tS    4 40ltt                                    Wu" UXlwlll         well s 'Sle 
*  s' s   s            - ca-St'. O  sUl    $-se9' anes's   s  -asI           s te9te Seot SCt  Ss    s-'tet '     t      U     eSoIw   e iese sot    a       s                                         tUm35   ltIU    15   5
C sMc's *at s        S a s      a snCs   S-u.s's   a SIG' s   Ui        S  a 400saS   essiII s tu                               as I-pa t                   i S   OIa                           eiuggm e*suee isaac  5
a 0u i es     e         Ott si U   Slw        -ass s    us eSs             s ses's $      0 te uasa    i*  ss'ss e-as rsa   S-see'e sU  6's.t Ceswc S  'Uv                                             *I5l@             'USd  U
a      s'S     t'       Ws ItS   uuw       c *  c     e Scis     snt    I vStel t   St 5  C            tes t ts  ssus'uS       azS s *-ss *sis  i'aii'i                                                           mcsi 1tollt
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... . . ....   .. .. .   ... . . . . . . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . ..   . . ..   . . . .   . . . .   .. . . . . . .
isouc sintu wos'
itoil's  5 555t' 51515'(atl   i ,ICi '@   5 ill'    I aSu'   a  oS 'I 5  1.55S55   I cst              #5554555 910W '55         1 e'es  'e I I0n  -ita ,cs  act.'esams cuwl$    usausacu     stims                         sIY
s  olI sties -ass'      ese    s   .'s   s "Is's  . a's .c    isas.1  s aa'ss e08            sagest0 e-'ca         ss -o    -ggw I .s 'S  i n a -a Iu 6st's                                         aissum     smaiuua       I
S,.s,ns  nan.*. s...8,.S  .fln.**  e.mnSsa  en,....                     . ....   S..  .................... ............flS ..e.........................
50i0~~~~  1   5   P   5  a   I  5.50j        g           i           5           5           g           5~gnn vm    oln almnu
............................................................. .......................................................................................... ...................................
a.. £ sawcum  s'uiq
-A 4 SIVOW0"                  _                                                                                                        $o
13srsu  aISams music Vwie
wages



111116mp kteweMe by leow
*                     8         2 ~ ~~              ~~        ~~       ~~                     ~ ~ 2  4  1   5  80  1  3    4        1        6       foleS
I.~~~~~~                                                                              . 316
"Know~ ~ ~ ~ ~ cantw
~~*    ................ 
a.   "asin   Om urns                       6848.680104.11 3w6.ws.  410.408. 6 14&04 11336. "I. I    0.331t. 6  3.146.1 1S.300 S  I. no6 It.3gM. 61 iso    4 It. o3  13W. 34  0
L  C.ll VMS n                                   "S. It.s   .ntw."DIO  615tsS 346144. aIt0. #W0 S" 1all4  t8.6    a  Is.So    s.   l ft. a  3. W               mSso. I t .  0 84. no.I
L. 11U1111 * £84 833 4W NM66                 0414411. 46466IK        11383.-6  3.160.6  1  331. 1  IS-.St 1   408,114.3  1.3M-.4  3-.83 8  1.048 3   - "S'.2  1.403 4    W).2  0. 433.6
IL nattus                                    it.3"a4   IL fi.e   8.3860                                      v 3.at I   S".1    106 S"1t                                        1.0-   . I
. U1111o  M0 . 4    . Mtt                                     .t   at6r6.1   4. 11S & 1         4 1   3.6 "a   3 l0.136 0    33 0 n4 I       01 S    its 6       l2 4    61 I    "I e
,. uuius so aecinrna  assis;                 14441.1   6331.4   4 30. I   3.643 3   3, M.1 iS. S1. S          too  3    41.. I      80 t 0   M06 9    0 t.4     666      3s. 6    636.1
L t 1610111                                  U.W3  33tS1.4  36t16.2  4341883  ISs IS . Ha1.o f        s 3 a66 "64. 6    633s 0              ass I    oil *  M  n  460.8  1ss .3  4.t4s    n
egeme  e n ...,. ea.e    .m......, .me....,. mea...,e.tgm.me  a *am    gee l.,.. ......... ..sg.....me ,.mnee  e..,....  *.$me........... ... ........
t... .a.um    MIS 
a. iumrninboaa sauusesam1ua1         ms A1   4164   5.090.11  141L1   L131.3    S4.a   L1.0.4 e               3,1.3    I363    840.3.   383.0   In.61   I3.8I   136.0    334.I
a ms    iuium           t Suliutu         SLU.0' 1.6 30.36.1  306611.0  8It3.1  83.524161  83.316.) tf 8061.0    143.6    110.3t   131.8    431.8    436.1    466.0  2311.0
tatal mmmii    s                                86613.3  210.1t  30.011.  31.8t8.    3080.4  3as.1.    840448.8t   430.               6000    663.    633.    s134.        1440  318.0
.m.a................... .  ...........mgs gmgeg t    ....... ........ .matag.  e   ..m....... .s$,. g,   t,gm . ...... ........   .........  ........
a..    SS    i                               0611   1.3. 68.41113.33.14.63.  603;,14.63130.11. 1  6612.2    6   S333.  8100.08.461 P                         1.3I)S4.486344.9  K. 866.
*smeats$&           4sset$*.m sme $T; g  .......aa   eggga  a..g... ag eeaaaag     eg... a.g...& " em..... as me.... Og  mm,..... ge "". ""g,g
...................................................................................................................................................................................
_n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as
.                         bS
5e68*se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 23   13   80
I



- 56 -
FY/Semeater                Diaburemsnt   CUMulative    % of Total
Disbursement      Credit
(US$ million)  (US8  ilion)
FY94 - II                          2.3            2.3        3
FY95 - r                           3.1            5.4        7
- xI                          4.7           10.1       13
FY96 - I                           S.            1 5S.5      20
- UI                          5.4           20.9       27
FY97 - I                           7.7           28.6        37
- U1                          7.7           36.3       47
FY98 - I                           7.8           44.1        57
- II                          7.8           51.9       67
FY99 - I                           7.7           59.6        77
- II                          7.7           67.3       87
FY00 - I                           7.0           74.3        96
- II                          3.1           77.4      100



- 57 -
Page I of 3
ADR PRADKRSU FORESTRY PROJRC Z
Zs=XRY  FOR THR ARRLEION OF FORET -D  O   HIg-IL   LNAIN   FFl
Obehctives.       An agreement on the criteria for the selection of land for
the high-yield plantations of FDC would be a requirement for the inclusion of
the costs for this activity in the project. Compliance with the criteria
would achieve two objectives: (a) t o ensure that the plantations are
properly sited as a sound investment, and (b) to ensure that the population
affected by the establishment of the plantations receives adequate benefits
from this project component to compensate for the losses.
(a)   folicocriea-Physi;al Siting Criteria
The quality and physical configuration of the sites selected for high-
yield plantations should b e such that this investment is financially viable,
well manageable and accepted/supported by the local population in the adjacent
areas. Preliminary criteria are set out below which will need to be modified
or expanded as necessary by the implementing agency, such Amendments to be
reviewed and approved by IDA.
(i)   Candidate areas are heavily degraded natural forest within
Reserve Forest Land with less than 0.4 tree canopy density. Areas
with less than 0.2 canopy density are the primary target. The
areas shall be judged as difficult to regenerate into satisfactory
yielding forest from existing root stock, making replanting the
only or preferred regeneration alternative;
(ii)  Sites in the driest parts of A.P., i.e. areas with less than about
600 mm annual rainfall, do not qualify;
(iii) Extremely poor soils, and stony/rocky soils that do not allow deep
ripping/ploughing, do not qualify;
(iv)  Steep sites that are unsuitable for mechanical soil preparation do
not qualify;
(v)   Individual blocks of degraded forest land selected should be large
enough to make it attractive for commercial contractors with heavy
duty soil preparation machinery to bid for soil preparation
contracts:
(vi) Candidate areas would normally not be selected on fringe forest
land adjacent to populated villages; such forest land would suit
better for forest management under the Joint Forest Management
Stream of rehabilitation investments under the project.
(b)   rnnnnneimf Coritorla
It is not envisaged that this activity would involve resettlement of
people (see item [iij below). Nevertheless, there is likely to be some
encroachment by local people at varying levels of intensity; any moves
infringing on existing usufruct or customary rights of people to the land or
other resources taken by the project, such as collection of non-timber forest



- 58 -
Page 2 of 3
products, grazing, etc., will entail the necessity of compensation to the
affected people. The fact that candidate areas are on governent land and
such local groups have no legal title to land is not a bar to the right of
compensation. Moreover, since the candidate aceas and associated compensation
needs are not known in advance because of the late addition of this treatment
practice to the project, prior agreement is needed on the compensation process
and criteria that meet Bank policy and requirements I as a prerequisite for
using proceeds of the Credit for this treatment practice. Preliminary
criteria are set out below which will need to be modified or expanded as
necessary by the implementing agency, in consultation with the
organization/representatives speaking on behalf of the affected people, such
amendments to be reviewed and approved by IDA.
(i)   Candidate areas are chosen so as to avoLd or minimiLe resettlement
and infringement on customary rights;
(ii)  Where this is unavoidable, a compensation plan2 will be developed
by FDC & FD in consultation with the affected people directly or
through their spokespersonst
(iii) The plan will be based on a socio-economic survey that identifies
the number of people/households potentially affected, describes
the resource base of the affected population, the extent of
anticipated loss of income or assets, and the attitude of the
affected people toward the project component. Candidate sites with
a large number of potentially affected people will be rejected,
particularly if the losses would be of substantial magnitude for
the majority of the people.
(iv)  The plan will address and mitigate the project component's impact
on the affected population. It will give particular attention to
vulnerable groups such as tribals, the landless and semi-landless,
and women:
(v)   Valuation of lost assets will be made at their replacement cost.
for those types of loss that cannot be easily evaluated or
compensated in monetary terms, equivalent and culturally
acceptable alternative resources and earning opportunities will be
provided by the project. The compensation plan will offer to the
affected people on a preferential basis participation in the
economic activities made possible by the investment causing the
losses, including employzent and training;
(vi) The plan shall include a target date when the expected benefits to
the affected people will be delivered/achieved:
These are set out in the World Bank Operations Directive (00) 4.30 on involuntary
resettlement including compensation due to customary right taken from local people by the
project.
2     A resettlement and co2pensation plan in case of unavoidability of resettlement. By
this is meant the unavoidable involuntary resettlement of a few individuals or households.
lavoluntaty resettlement of any considerable number of people is ruled out under this
project.



- 59 -
Page 3 of 3
(vii) The plan for each candidate block or cluster of blocks of Forest
Reserve Land ahAll be *apUrwd first by the District Level
Forestry Committee and subsequently by tho Bank efanre any
ifvents I,                  nt  nrtia       be finanee  out of the
proceeds of the Credit for this project;
(viii)Arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for monitoring
implementation of the plan, including actual compensation, shall
be developed by FDCIFD by the time the first plan is submitted for
Bank approval. In-house monitoring may need to be supplemented by
independent monitors to ensure complete and objective information.
The District Level Forestry Comdittee concerned and the State
Level Forestry Committee shall have a role in the monitoring
process;
(ix) An analysis of the socio-economic impact of this treatment
practice on the affected local people will be conducted at the
time of the mid-term review.



- 60 -
Page 1 of 2
ma
ANBRRA PRAOEH F'0RISTRY PRO.7KcT¶
TRI!A OR         
NN-OVRNNzNT C0RGAI2AlT YAWS EWAOp}
1.    The project would seek NGO participation in various activities,
especially in areas of villager mobilization, formation of village protection
committees and women's groups, technology dissemination, and training in
respect of joint forest management investments and practices. NGOs would
extend training both to the village communities and to the field staff of the
forestry administration. The VD would invite interested NGOs to register
requests or proposals for collaboration. The PD would be responsible for
reviewing the pre-qualification documents of interested NGOs and agreeing on
appropriate mechanisms to involve NGOs in the project. The selection of NGOs
would be guided by the following criteria:
(A) Rnmarn Rennnrc Endowme.nt
-     profile of excellent leadership
-     existence of second line of leadership
-     adequacy of other staff (number; qualifications;
commitments/enthusiasm; reputation)
-     readiness for a long-term commitment/involvement
(B)   Aea- log1Rme4ae
Mi     =Oprlence whlth   alolar. Comwmrnlty
-     should be a registered body under the relevant State law
-     should have been actively functioning for at least two years
-     experienced in geographical areas where the relevant part of
the project is to be implemented
-     aware of local conditions and customs; a clear understanding
of the socio-economic and political situation of the area
-     knowledgeable of local language(s); good communication
skills
-     positive perception of NGO by community/beneficiaries
-     positive assessment records of past performance or positive
letters of recommendation from clients/beneficiary
groups/organizations/departments previously associated with
NGO
(ii)  E    irie. of LRelvane to Project Activitles
-     rural orientation: previous, successful work at the
community level for preferably three years or more with
marginal and small farmer villagers or landless villagers,
and with indigenous people in tribal areas
-     profound understanding of, and sensitive to issues
concerning tribals and women
-     environmental awareness
-     technical experience at the lo ,al level in the field of the
project (forestry, including nurseries and non-timber forest
products; forest protection: soil conservation; wasteland



- 61 -
Page 2 of 2
reclamation; water management; interface areas, such as
livestock/fodder, agroforestry, household energy, household
economics)
philosophy on community participation as reflected in other
projects the NGO has undertaken, and strategy for
participation in present proposal
demonstrable skills in participatory approaches, ability to
build up strong people's groups around community issues and
development activities
ability to train both beneficiaries and government field
staff in participatory approaches to JFM
ability to monitor physical progress in area concerned
composition of NGO staff offered for this assignment
(gender, ethnic composition, tribal staff, etc.)
gender sensitivity, experience in working with poor women
and with involving the marginalized sections of communities
equally in the local development process.
(C)   Othgr  Fpen_ature
(i)   Viaaa   tn9n
strength and financial stability
-     quality of accounts and audits
(is )  fnltA
-     physical resource base (buildings, vehicles, communication
facilities, word processing/computing facilities)
networking facilities/capacities with other organizations
(iii) Rapport with government
-     prior involvement in government projects
(iv)  NozataI±tg
-     no affiliation with political organizations
-     not proselytizing
2.    The candidate NGOs should demonstrate their ability to truly understand
the JFM part of the project and their role in it. Owing to the nature and
extent of the physical coverage of the JFM program each NGO will be part of
the entire process.
3.    Appointment of NGOs to assist in project activities shall be subject to
confirmation by the District Level Forestry Committee.
4.   Qualifying NGOs should be given additional forestry technical training
by FD, if required.
5.   NGOs who are part of district level NGO associations should receive
priority in becoming selected for working for the project.



- 62 -
knsx 7
Page 1 of S
IMDtA
AEHA papDKsa FRER?RY PRQlrT
FINANCIAL ANA   P.CONOM1C ANWALY=:
TTO
1.    This Annex examines the economic impact of the project. Its focus is on
financial and economic profitability of directly productive activities.
2.    The project will increase the supply of timber and non-wood forest
products such as fuelwood, grass and fruits. The project is also expected to
generate a series of other beneficial effects which are difficult to measure
in economic terms. These include, intez alia. increases in the productivity of
soils due to forest protection, improvements in the management of protected
areas, enhanced capabilities of the forestry public administration, more
effective local participation, research, extension and training. These effects
have not been included in the benefits streams of the project, although their
costs have, been computed in the estimate of total project profitability. In
other cases, only qualitative descriptions are possible. Other aspects
considered in the economic impact of the project as a whole are employment
generation and an estimate of the total number of people who will benefit from
the project's activities. The Annex also examines the probable economic
impact of the project on tribal people and the poor.
WATETDDoT
3.        tifiablA Project Physical Tmpants. Direct and economically
quantifiable benefits are mainly derived from the forestry treatment practices
supported by the project and from the Tribal Development component of the
project. Seventeen such practices have been designed and analyzed. Estimates
of physical inputs and outputs were developed for each of the treatment
practices and for the Tribal Development Plan. Details are presented in Annex
11 of the Implementation Volume.
4.    Shared costs, such as research, extension and activities aimed at
strengthening of the Forest Administration, were not included in the estimates
of individual treatment practices. However, as mentioned above, they were
included in the estimate of the total project economic profitability.
5.    Impact estimates follow the standard practice of using one-hectare
models afid projecting situations with and without the project. Th6se include
mainly fuelwood and fodder which would have been produced in modest quantities
in the absence of the project. Costs include all incremental recurrent costs
for goods and services that will continue after project completion.
6.    Benefits include incremental production of timber, poles, fuelwood,
fodder, forest fruits, bamboo, a variety of horticultural products for
household consumption and several non-timber forest products. The aggregate
production arising from treatment practices was measured for the first 30
years. Results are in Table 1. It should be noted that the project would
eventually lead to a larger output of timber than indicated in this Table as
much of the timber production would take place after 30 years. Most of the



- 63 -
AreasX-
Page 2 of S
items of cost and benefit are non-tradeable and practically all of the
project's output is expected to be consumed domestically.
7.    An important feature of the now treatment practices is the increased use
of improved planting stock including clonal material for planting. A gradual
replacement of present nursery techniques is envisaged with the first year
inducing no substantial change, the second year leading to the use of one-
third of the planting material based on improved nursery techniques, with this
proportion increasing to one half in years three and four and 80% in years
five and six. Costs have been computed to allow for this gradual transition
over time, as improved planting material is more expensive than seedlings
produced through traditional methods.
8.   Zrx±aa. The financial analysis uses market prices for inputs and
outputs.  All market prices are April 1993 prices in constant values.  These
are described below. One of the main items of cost is labor and a standard
rate of Rs 28 per workday was used in all financial calculations. Most of the
project's operations would be carried out during the agricultural planting
season. On.the benefit side, all timber, bamboo and pole prices are stumpage
prices.
9.    With respect to economic prices, and with the exception of timber and
fertilizers, all inputs and outputs of the project were considered as non-
tradeables and therefore a Standard Conversion Factor was applied (SCF, 0.8)
to financial prices to derive economic prices.  All price estimates associated
with the project are conservative and are assumed to remain constant in real
terms during the life of the project. This conservative assumption was
adopted despite evidence that relative prices of project products have been
steadily increasing during the last decade and despite the fact that future
demand appears to be clearly exceeding supplies (See Annex 1 of the
Implementation Volume). Thus, profitability calculations likely include a
downward bias. Prices used in the financial and economic analyses are listed
in Table 2.
10.   Withent- roa±ct SRannrios.  Treatment practices would be applied mainly
to heavily degraded land. Many of these lands are used under a comaon
property regime and in most cases are expected to show severe declines in
productivity in the absence of the project. In most cases a steady reduction
in the output of wood products is expected to take place initially, followed
by sustained -- in some cases temporarily increased -- and then declining
output of fodder. In some situations, where population pressure is high and
the physical condition of soils fragile, lands would become totally
unproductive in a few years. The benefits sacrificed because of the project
(net benefits of the situation without the project) have been entered under
the item "cost of land" in each one of the treatment practices.
11. i4nnn~iaI and Rnnn~~mi~ PrnfitabIlily. Costs and benefits streams for
each treatment practice are included in Annex 11 of the PIV.  Table 3
summarises costs and benefit streams for the project as a whole and Table 4
their expected net present values (NPV). Under the conservative assumptions
adopted, the profitability (ERR) of the project as a whole is estimated at 20%
and its total NPV at Rs 1,601 million (O.C.C. - 12%).



- 64 -
Page 3 of 5
12.   The financial and economic profitability of the treatment practices are
generally satisfactory. Estimates are displayed in Table 5. The aggregate
economic profitability of treatment practices is 29% and their total NPV
Re 2,233 million. With the exception of afforestation practices with non-teak
hardwoods, the treatment practices to be implemented by the project exhibit
rates of return well in excess of 12%, the opportunity cost of capital. in
those cases in which profitability levels equal or fall marginally below 12%,
practices would still be supported by the project in consideration of their
desirable environmental and equity impacts.   Profitability levels are
extremely high in some cases such as: (a) the activities related to the Tribal
Development Plan, which are expected to increase productivity drastically
while using modest quantities of incremental resources; (b) afforestation with
bamboo which also shows drastic responses to improved technologies with low
incremental costs, and all practices involving horticultural crops; (c)
plantations of fast growing species for industrial uses, which make intensive
use of highly productive clonal material; and (d) silvicultural treatments of
viable teak plantations, which generate imediate income.
13.   The JFM component assumes benefit sharing between Government and rural
people. It is assumed that the Government would pay for main material inputs
and labor costs up to the plantation stage. Villagers would contribute all
labor inputs after plantation. On the output side all benefits would accrue
to the rural people with the exception of timber which would be shared equally
with the Government. The expected returns to farmers and to Government are
displayed in Table 6. Returns to farmers are highly attractive with the
possible exception of the pasture treatment practice which yields only about
15%. Still farmers are expected to adopt this practice in view of the
cultural values associated with livestock ownership. In the case of the
Tribal Development Plan, and in view of the poverty levels of the people
involved, it is assumed that all costs will be covered by the Government while
all the benefits would accrue to tribals. Financial rates of return in this
case would be extremely high and therefore provide an effective incentive to
tribals to participate in the project's activities. There are no specific
benefit-sharing arrangements in the case of the Production Forestry stream
although it is more than likely that some proportion of output would be
received by the local people, either through formal arrangements or
informally. Some kind of formal benefit-sharing should be encouraged by the
Government to generate incentives for rural participation. In the case of
Private Farm Forestry the Government would not provide plantation inputs other
than extension and training and benefits would be received in their entirety
by the local people. Returns are judged to be attractive enough to induce
private planting.
SRwSTYTVrTY M(fAT-YRTS
14. The profitability of most of the treatment practices is more robust than
that of the project as a whole and therefore, can withstand greater unexpected
changes in economic conditions. As seen in Table 7, most treatment practices
can absorb an increase of 30% in all costs and still remain above the 12%
level, some of them by a substantial margin.
15. The project as a whole is moderately sensitive to changes in economic
conditions. If benefits fell by 20% the economic rate of return would
decrease from 20% to 16%. Benefits would have to decrease by 35% to bring the
economic rate of return down to 12%. If costs increased by 20%, the economic
rate of return would decrease to 17%. Costs would have to increase by 50% for



- 65 -
AnAzl 7
Page 4 of 5
the economic rate of return to fall to 12%. A combined increase in costs of
22% and a decrease in benefits of 20% would also bring the economic rate of
return to 12%. Furthermore, in the unlikely event that benefits were delayed
by as much as three years, the project would still sustain a rate of return
equal to 12%. Since the treatment practices constitute the bulk of the
project's investments, the weight of their possible changes on the project's
profitability is considerable. By contrast, other components such as research
or studies have a negligible importance measured in total costs and therefore
very little impact in case of unexpected changes. Table 8 shows switching
values, which explain the afore-mentioned benefit/ERR or cost/ERR
relationships, providing an idea of the economic soundness of the project as a
whole and its relative vulnerability to possible errors in estimates of costs
and benefits of each of the main project components.
16. The project will generate about 80 million work-days of employment in
plantation esta, 2.sshment, a benefit which is almost entirely captured by the
poorest and-the landless. Indirect employment and income effects are also
likely to be important.
mOm NFDLIF IMPAQTsS
17. Impacts which could not be quantified but which add substantially to the
value of benefits include, ±nt-r alia4. the increases in production outside the
project derived from the dissemination of significantly improved production
technologies, biodiversity protection, the increased rural organization
resulting from joint management schemes, enhanced efficiency in the operation
of the forestry administration as a consequence of better internal
organization, staff management and the use of modern techniques to measure and
monitor changes in the state's forest resources, changes in agricultural
production due to better water management and soil protection, improved local
self-reliance and food security and, in general, the equity benefits derived
from project activities, which affect mainly the poor.
18. A large un-quantifiable impact of the project is expected to be the
change in the policy environment. By eliminating policy distortions, the
project is expected to lead to a more efficient allocation of resources in
general. The elimination of price subsidies is likely to encourage private
production of quality seedlings, therefore increasing future productivity and
generating higher levels of private profitability and planting.
19. The project will improve management and protection of nearly 400,000
hectares of land. The protection of lands in sensitive areas would have a
positive effect on soil and water conservation and on agricultural production.
Such protection would also generate substantial impacts on biodiversity
conservation and preservation of aesthetic and cultural benefits. The project
would train 700 persons in improved wildlife management techniques,
ecodevelopment planning and implementation, conflict resolution, park
management planning, JFM, environmental education, captive breeding
techniques, etc. 13 additional education and interpretative centers would
improve environmental awareness by targeting about 2 million people per annum.
JFM and ecodevelopment schemes would be introduced in 100 villages within and
outside protected areas involving 10,000 hectares of forest land around
protected areas. Pressure on protected areas from 20,000 families and
100,000 livestock would be drastically mitigated. In addition, the project



- 66 -
Page S of 5
would result in the rehabilitation of 500 hectares of degraded mangrove lands
thus restoring their productive level and improving the livelihood of 400
families currently depending on these resources. While the benefits derived
from protecting these areas are hard to measure, they would likely be
substantial.
20.  Five thousand hectares of podu (shifting cultivation) land and 30,400 of
dryland land would be rehabilitated during the project, under the Tribal
Development Plan. The project would have a beneficial impact on tribals,
through joint forest management activities, in terms of additional income and
employment from NTFP production and processing, the promotion of thrift groups
and improved food due to better agricultural practices, horticulture, soil and
moisture conservation works and afforestation. The net household income at
full development would be of the order of Rs 9,000-10,000 for farmers with
podu land and 16,000 to 20,000 for those with podu land and dryland, exceeding
the poverty level of Rs 8,000 per annum. Support to grain banks at village
level would also help Increase community food security besides reducing
indebtedness, and families with podu and valley lands, comprising about 70
percent of the families under the Plan, would become more self-sufficient in
meeting their daily calorie requirements following increases in food
production.   Significant improvements in nutritional adequacy would be
achieved due to the judicious selection of cropping patterns including an
increase in the are of pulses. For famillies with podu land only, additional
income would be generated by the highly profitable horticultural crops. The
participatory process, village level organization and training, and thrift and
grain banks would also have a positive effect on the economic and social
status of women.
21.   The project's activities related to joint forest management are
innovative and likely to spread as the project progresses. This implies a
better integration of the local population, government agencies and NGO's in
the effective and more efficient management of the forestry sector of the
state.



- 67 -                             Aaz    
Table 1
ANDNRA DRnRD3AR IM"MR  POJC
Total Production               Unit           Quantity (000)
Fodder                    ton                  13,706
Fuelwood                  m3                   24,196
Poles Small Teak          no.                  98,703
Poles Small Non-teak      no.                  25,705
Poles Big Teak            no.                   2,182
Poles Big Non-teak        no.                   8,673
Timber Teak               m3                       29
- Timber Non-teak          m3                       463
Agave                     ton                      71
Fruits                    ton                     928
Faggotwood                ton                   1,071
Pulpwood                  ton                   4,977
Bamboo                    ton                   3,682



- 68 -
nnaBZZ
Table 2
A2DRUA P  RDVR IoggnTAY PRO=U.
INPUTS/OUTPUTS               UNIT       =     PRICE         em PRICE
(Rs.)
Workday                       w.d.               28                 22.4
Seedling (trees)              one                 3                 2.4
Seedling (bamboo)             one                 1                 0.8
Seedling (fruit)              one                 3                 2.4
Agave bulbs                   one               0.25                0.2
Forest/thorny seeds            kg                20                  16
Babul seeds                    kg                5                   4
Cuttings (shrubs)              kg                5                   4
Grass/legume seeds             kg                50                  40
Fertilizer FYK                 kg               0.5                 0.5
Fertilizer, chemicals          kg                6                   6
PP chemicals                   kg                6                   6
Palmyra nuts                  one               2.5                  2
OU1pPTs:
Fuelwood                      cum               200                 160
Fodder                        ton               170                 136
Teak poles                    one             30 - 70              24-56
Non-teak poles                one             20 - 40              16-32
Teak timber                   cum              11000               11000
Non-teak timber                cum              4000                4000
Red Sanders timber            oum              50000               50000
Agave fibre leaf               kg                3                  2,4
Fruits                         kg                4                  3.2
Faggotwood                    ton               250                 200
Pulpwood,                     ton               1225                1225
Bamboo                        ton               750                 600



ii
a    on             "Au  uutsuA      on    ont "O  "O  O"       * t    t S"    su sfl  ne          n isu  u    &s  Soa            a     ws ns    us, Se. o          "t
go   fit   t    03s  o"6  £S0l  0    "a            tog 101010  440  Sol  00  1£  on01 on£       A"   0      9W 0   A"6  tog  Di  to   on1  LW   6*   " 10 1    *M                      ."W3.
3as   to3  I£0  go0  Ls   Io   Is   10   aW   SI   Si3  A0   103  USt  0It   As6  Uo   £06  510  as0  St0  t0o  1to   100  110  81000   0
0s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e t   14   U9   a    99f
^°  t         I       SI U    u    t               _
*   t  *"  U  sX  "s  ¢  seW eG U>W |s s *e se $s *eW W " e " " * z eW t U | *$ e _o   9    a    t 
0    tL 1s   40   N0   10
n e e e ez ez e e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  Ot a       et Wz  Bs                                                           & n    at       *             w *eb*s** S
0 S II       I* 11  set   a    to   a    0    So   to   e0t    o   et   so    o   St   et   So   to   so 60 *0                    of 10      of 66   t1    £     0       A00 e     w U  1061
0 Oll U "             6 IS   0£   1    53   0    0    0£   U    U *  #       Of    O'S  so   U    O     l             SO6SO*£          go Lsot61       1      00 t   1
no"          " Al   S    A        " Of   is   Of               U IPA   "W    *"    C to   to   aw $    SI               e   n    n  " ut   M             et SO   so   St         _     W _
_s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
_    U _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16
£0o"  50  3    £A"   "t  1.    :10 ) 01103  100 Ue a                103.    £601 600  10 £g31 us  3 "at g ot 1M  00   00   uL   0*   "a  000            S0       10 £3                     owl
Is   t      o IS    03800103606agguon           ueset    SsgUaSlon  #0          030 3u08gSot         wbe mA£sk    tSta    of00        0      0£   to   Is   St   0                ,.10apuqpj
0es0so3    a £    f 00   60   1   u1  U  t eo013033365£in3    03£I    10360 Ate  all                363S03ae          0     06   31   a    0    a    0    6    0    Am"  uwd Mamem
00   so   se   a3   Se   03   03   60    3              et   et 61 et   £1   01   01   01   et   a1   StI  01   6                 A £    6      60    0  *6         1



- 70 -
a=oL
Table 4
ORNfA PRIDKR  ORRYR  PRn.=C
(Present Value in Rs. million at 12% discount rate)
JFM                                       724
Production Forestry                       754
Coommunity and Private                    375
Tribal Dev. Plan                           594
Civil Works                               223
MAE                                        137
Vehicles                                   28
Studies                                    13
Services/TA                                1S
Training                                    89
Repl./Rec. Costs                          250
TOTAL COSTS                              3079
3nnef its from:
JFM                                      1046
Production Forestry                      1934
Community and Private                     724
Tribal Dev. Plan                          976
TOTAL BENEFITS                           4680
TOTAL NET BENEFITS                       1601



- 71 -
Annoz2
Table S
[~~~~~4u Fotlf                    f _DU= __ _
Treatment Practice                                  Financial Economic  Financial  Economic
Returns 6 Returns 6 NPV per ha NWV per ha
Int  orestr
TP1.   Rehabilitation of degraded forests:
Viable rootstocks and gap planting                20       20         3,609    2,842
TP2.   Rehabilitation of degraded forests:
Pasture                                          1S       1S         1,701    1,258
5P3a.  Rehabilitation of degraded forests
in barren hills                                 18        18         3,537    2,940
TP3b.  Ecorestoration                                    n.a.A/    n.a.A/     n.a.aJ   n.a.aI
PrndnetCanm    Stt ream
TPSa.  Reforestation with teak                             13        14        2,581    2,167
T°Sb.  Viable teak plantations                           n.a.b/    n.a.k/     32,290   25,469
TP6a.  Non-teak hardwoods                                  12        12        2,401    2,445
TP6b.  Reforestation with Ailanthus and others             12        12          702    3,690
TP7.   Rejuvenation of bamboo forests                      34        34         6,175    4,955
TP8.   Nigh-yield production                               22        25       25,693   30,790
Cmnnitv AndI PrI,teT strv stream
T19.   Afforestation of communal tank foreshores           16        16        2,505    1,986
TPlOa. Afforestation on other communal lands               19        19         9,250    8,955
TP1Ob. Ecorestoration                                    n.a.aI    n.a.A       n.a.A.I   n.a.aJ
TRPl1. Group Farm Forestry                                 14        14         1,058      063
TP12.  Private lands: Farm forestry seedaings              24        24         3,533    2,837
Tribal Development A: Farmers with podu land only    Over 50   Over 50         19,800   20,775
Tribal Development B: Farmers with podu land and            40   Over 50      26,878   31,787
agric. dryland
aJ     Benefits are largely unquantifiables therefore !RR. ERR and NPV cannot be calculated.
b/     Net financial and economic returns are positive from the first year ont therefore IRR
and ERR cannot be calculated.



- 72 -
Anax
Table 6
IMIA
HN4A pRASR PO!    PROJEt?CtT
SItun  t o ra rwmr  an   oGvm~tUdrJit ram.t Managjmn
(per hectare)
Treatment Practice                    EX=m i
FRR (%) Rs.million) FRR (%) NPV (Rs.million)
Viable Rootstocks and Gap Plant.    40    5,785         7       21,762
RDF Pasture                          15    7,205    negative   (5,507)
Reforestation in Barren Hills        59    7,245        4       (4,009)



- 73 -
Table 7
M1fiDHRiUP P ESRl wFOESTRty PROJETrT
Rnn  * t 4 vity of Treatmnnt Prheti* 4 c
Treatment Practice                                     Frnannial Raturns %
Base case    All Costs 30% hgher
Jist4nt Pnerest mAAnmpl ,ntyepm
TP1.   Rehabilitation of degraded forests:
Viable rootstocks and gap planting                    20              14
TP2.   Rehabilitation of degraded forests:
Pasture                                               1S              13
TP3a.  Rehabilitation of degraded forests
in barren hills                                       18              15
TP3b.  Scorestoration                                            n.a.
roduntjrntr
TP5a.  Reforestation with teak                                   13              12
TP5b.  Viable teak plantations                                   n.a.
TPCa.  Yon-teak hardwoods                                        12               9
TPEb.  Reforestation with Ailanthus and others                   12              11
TP7.   Rejuvenation of bamboo forests                            34              24
TP8.   Sigh-yield production                                     22              21
CComnIwtv and PravAoator -try  tr Am
TP9.   Afforestation of communal tank foreshores                 16              13
TP10a. Afforestation on other communal lands                     19              17
TP10b. Scorestoration                                          n.a.
TRPll. Group Farm Forestry                                       14              10
TP12.  Private lands: Farm forestry seedlings                    24              19
Trbhal nDvelopment P 1rm        
Tribal Development A: Farmers with podu land only             4ver 50            41
Tribal Development B: Farmers with podu land and                 40              32
agric. dryland



- 74 -
Table 8
AUDHRAPRAUIRR I TRRSY PRQL1#PP
(Re. million)
Base Case     Switching   Percentage
__              Ma^luoa     Chanogna_
NPV            at 12%
at 12%     ERR for Entire
Disc. R.       Project
Benefits from:
JFK Stream                          1046         -2648         -153
Production Forestry                  1934        -3536          -83
Coamunity and Private Forestry       724         -2325         -221
Tribal Development                    976        -2578         -164
TOTAL BENEFITS                      4681         -6282          -34
Costs for:
JFM Stream                           724          2326          221
Production Forestry                  754          2355          212
Community and Private Forestry       375          1976          427
Tribal Development                   594          2196          269
Civil Works                          223          1825          718
M&E                                   137         1739         1167
Vehicles                              28          1629         5787
Studies                               13          1615        12080
Services/TA                           15          1617        10556
Training                              89          1691         1797
Repl./Rec. Costs                     250          1851          641
TOTAL COSTS                         3079          4681           52
NET BENEFITS                        1601
Al Change, in porcent of NPV, needed in the benefits or costs of each of the
Main project components, as well as of selected cost items, to bring the ERR
of the entire project down to 12%.



- 75-                                 A
Page 1 of 2
ANDHRA PRADRBS FRNSSTY PROQ7CT
A1PRVISION P . DEVRLOPMRNT IMPACT TNDCATOR
AND IMPLEMiENTATION SCeDULE7
1.    S r-vi-a n Planning.  Effective monitoring, progress reporting and
supervision are crucial to the successful implementation of this sector-wide
and multi-component project. Supervision planning by the Bank would be closely
linked to both progress reporting and implementation planning by the Borrower.
The former process would be greatly facilitated by the computer-based
management information system (MIS) and the latter by the computerized project
management (CPM) technique which are expected to become fully operational in
the second half of the first project year. The supervision plan would be
adjusted in a manner which recognizes that major innovative project
components, such as joint forest management, group farm forestry, tribal
development plan etc., would be flexible enough to accommodate changes in
targets, approaches or even in design. Such flexibility is justified given the
strong emphasis being placed on people's participation, an approach which has
not been attempted on this scale before in the State.
2.    BankY SueLrviaion Inut.  To ensure that risks to successful project
implementation are overcome through appropriate and timely adjustments, Bank
supervision missions would during the early stages of the project include a
strong complement of technical experts as well as social scientists. It is
intended that supervisions would be undertaken twice yearly. One of those
missions would concentrate on the achievement of physical targets,
procurement, disbursement, flow of funds and other procedural matters. The
second mission would primarily assess the effectiveness of the project's
technical and social activities and, if required, make recommendations for
changes in design and institutional or management arrangements.
3.    The start-up of Bank mission work would reconfirm foxmats required for
project accounts and reports and arrangements for procurement and
disbursements including retroactive financing, as well as arrange the project
launch workshop together with the Borrower. Performance indicators would be
finalized during this workshop (para 5). In the third project year provision
would be made for a mid-term review about two and a half years after project
start-up. The TOR for this review would be agreed with the Bank and provide
for a complete assessment of the progress of the project and facilitate major
design changes if necessary. An indicative supervision schedule and the staff
inputs required are given below in Table 1. These inputs are in addition to
routine supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement
actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated for this project to require four
staff-weeks during the first project year and three staff-weeks per year
thereafter).
4.   Rorrower's Contr4bution tQ Superavsion. The Borrower would make vital
contributions to the supervision process through several different activities.
The annual work programs, to be completed and submitted to the Bank 4 months
prior to the beginning of the new Indian Fiscal Year, would provide a sound



- 76 -
Aln 
Page 2 of 2
basis for the supervision of the project as they include physical and
budgetary information, detailed and in summary form, on all project activities
planned for the next year. Under the project provision has been made to
continually monitor and evaluate project activities with the help of the
project MIS. This activity would be the responsibility of the monitoring and
evaluation cell of FD, headed by the Conservator of Forests - Monitoring, and
would provide a solid data base to facilitate supervision work. Monitoring of
the Tribal Development Plan would be undertaken on a contract basis by a
competent outside agency. The Borrower would be required to submit progress
reports semi-annually by June 30 and December 31 of each year; in these
reports, which would be based on the monitoring and evaluation flow of
information, the progress of project implementation would be reviewed, areas
of difficulty faced highlighted and suggestiona made to overcome these
problems.
S.    Prior to Credit effectiveness the Borrower would recruit consultants to
assist the project establish a MIS as the basis for the monitoring and
evaluation process and the generation of progress reports, and to institute a
computerized project management technique for the generation of the annual
work programs and for keeping these up-to-date. The key performance
indicators and other information to be monitored and the detailed contents and
formats of the annual work program and progress reports will be discussed and
agreed with the Bank during the project launch workshop. A project mid-term
review would be undertaken by the Borrower through qualified consultants in
the second half of the third project year (para 3 above).
6.    Review meetings with the executing agency, FD, and the other
participating agencies as required, will normally be held late May and
November each year. The meetings will be chaired by the Secretary, Forests.
The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests of FD would be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions, and for providing
information required by missions. Missions will normally be accompanied by
project component leaders and specialists, as needed. Mission briefing
meetings upon arrival and wrap-up meetings will normally be chaired by the
Secretary, Forests, GOAP.
7.    Mission meetings with GOI will normally be chaired by the Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forests (GOI) with the participation of
the Undersecretary, Ministry of Finance (GOI), and representatives of FD and
the other participating agencies, as required.



- 77-
kai
Table 1
Page I of 2
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO XEY AcTTVITIsE
Approximate         Activity             E3tpected Skill             Staff Input
Date                                  Requirements                (staff-weeks)
IDA FY-Semester
94-11           Supervision 1            Forestry                         9
Project Launch          Procurem.nt/Disburs.a_nt/
Workshop                Accounting
Economics/Finance
Sociology/NGOs
Information Technology
95-I            Supervision 2            Forestry                        11
Research/Plant
Technology/Genetics
Organization &
-an  -- nt/Trainin
Fodder Technology
Information Technology
Sociology/NGOs
Environment
95-II           Supervision 3            Forestry                         8
(Discussion of AWP)     Procurement/Disbursement
Sociology
micro-Planning
96-I            Supervision 4            Forestry                         9
Research/Plant
Technology/Genetics
Sociology
Economics/Policy Reforu
Information Technology
96-XI           Supervision 5            Forestry                         5
(Discussion of AWP)     Sociology/Women



- 78 -
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
97-I            Supervision 6             Forestry                        16
Mid-term Review          Research/Plant
Technology/Genetics
Organization &
Management/Training
Economicslfinance/
Policy Reform
Sociology/NGOs
Environment
Fodder Technology
Legislation
97-11           Supervision 7             Forestry                         5
(Discussion of AMP)     Sociology
98-I            Supervision 8             Forestry                         9
Sociology
Economics/Finance
Environment
98-11           Supervision 9             Forestry                         5
(Discussion of AMP)     Sociology/Women
99-I            Supervision 10            Forestry                         8
Soaiology
Economics/Policy Reform
Fodder Technology
99-II           Supervision 11            Forestry                         5
(Discussion of AWP)     Sociology
00-I            Supervision 12            Forestry                         7
(Initiation of PCR      Sociology
Work)                    Economics/Finance
Environment



xma
increaz e forest productivity Advancement of participatory  - Number of V88s formed: (a) with (b) without
and quality                    protection and management of    NG6  involvement; {c) in tribal areas
public forest (IOM)            -  umbr of VSSs with their forest area
demarcated, hectares demarcated
- Number of JM micro-plans finalized; hectares
covered by micro-plans
- Micro-plans managed using GIS (numbers and area)
- area covered by treatments in the field: (a) total
area (b) successfully reab .litated area
Rehabilitation of communal    - Community plantations handed over to user groups
and private wastelands           or established (numbers and areas)
- Farmer groups enrolled (numbers and areas)
Improvement of planning of    - Area covered by overall forest survey and area
public forest resource manage-  (a) zoned and (b) classified for priority
ment, inc. through modern        development
information technology         - Area of priority zones (a) covered by more detailed
inventory; (b) with new-type working plan; and
Ic) managed using GIS
Rehabilitation of public       - Area covered by treatments in the field: (a) total
forest lands for production      area (b) successfully rehabilitated area
Improvement of seed 6          - Number and percentage of seedlings from improved
planting stock, nursery and      seed material
plantation practices, and      - Number of upgraded nurseries
supportive research            - Number and percentage of seedlings improved
by culling to standard                              a 05
- Number of large-scale verlfication trlals            a
initiated/concluded for(a) forest woody
* species and (b) forest fruit species
- Nuber and area of clonal cutting orchards
established and their production of mproved
planting stock



Proimft  OCLt3v               Pr-ait  XnnntLEuA
Institutional reforx of       -  rastitutional restructuring taken place ace. to
forestry sector institutions    outcome of sector institutional development study
Institutional support to      - MIS and GIS fully operational
APFD                          - Number of VD offices and staff houses built
Improvement of staff skills   - Numan resources development plan prepared
of sector institutions        - Preparation of aunual training plans
- Numbers and disciplines of professional staff and
support staff undergoing training
Advancement of private        - Individual farm forestry: number of farms reached by
participation in sector         the project,areas covered and seedlings acquired by
development                     the tree farmers; survival of seedlings
- Private commercial sector's involvement: number of
successful initiatives and areas covered
Alleviate rural poverty       Advancement of JFM on public  - Number of households actively participating in
forest lands, and of community VSSs/couunity plantations/GFP
and group farm forestry on    - Average annual value of benefits par household
coimercial and private          derived from JFM/CP/GFI
wastelands                    - Number of local community people trained
- Breakdown of above estimates by la) gender lb) S.C.
and (c) S. T.
Employment generation through - Number of paid work-days under the project and
the project                     breakdown by (a) gender, (b) S.C. and (c) S.?.
ImpIemntation of Tribal       - Adoption rate of improved crop husbandry and soil
Development Plan                conservation measures
- Income levels and living standards, including food
security
- Number of women's groups developed
Protect the environment       Conservation and improvment  - Number of PA management plans completed
of biodiversity               - Number of rare/endangered species targeted for
protection
tin,



Pva4.at 0b4.etlve              Prject 1n8nt/Pocus               Iefarmana Indigator
- PA area (hectares) brought under functioning
protection management
- Number eco-sensitive JFM mlcro-plans formulated
for villages in and around PAs
- Average value of restoration/substitution
/incremsntal benefits accruing to households
in above villages
- Number of research studies supporting IPAS, and
of eco-surveys conducted
Traditional forest management - Number of area units (beats, divisions, districts)
where ecological considerations have been explicitly
incorporated in traditional forestry activities
- Total degraded/underproductive area
rehabilitated/reforested
Collaborative fodder program  - Fodder seed production under the program
- Intensive fodder production plots under the program
and the project
- Acceptance of stall feeding
- Reduction of grazing damage in JFM areas
Tribal Development Plan        - Abandonment of podu (sites; area)
All above-mentioned three      Forestry sector reform         - Fulfillment of/substantive progress with the 18
objectives                     program                          reform items listed in Annex 1 of the SAR
GOAP commitment to the         - Sufficient and timely fund allocations for the
project                          Government's portions of the project's annual
budgets, and timely release of funds for operations
- Timely preparation of periodic project reports,
including annual work programs, budgets, progress
reports, and audit reports, etc.
la



- 82 -
_=M MNFFMM                                                 rm 
E.Wd Annud OmMW en Ode Paymsfl
PWGJ  EomeWt              pro                    PI*aet Yw               TO(         hA
PMect    1      2      3     4      5     6 FavemNNt
PIen0an Wafti                  2.63  5.37  8.70 11.40 18.07 12.30          63.40    LCSA
(48.01
2mki                            0.67  1.03  1.82  1.29  0.92  0.87          6.10    LCFA
(5.11
Ow     1 bier   Wak             0.75  1.16  1.48  1.48  1.05  1.00          6.90    FA
15.9)
cOrapuds, mIles                0.21  0.32  0.48  0.40  0.29  0.25           1.90    LS
for Fae Accaout                                                            11.51
L1aa y. Omumunledon            0.38  0.35  0.31  0.27  0.26  0.13           1.70    lM.Cs1
& Omputw Eq4men                                                            11-61
sEs b eRatu &                  0.04  0.11                                  0.16    0kwonui
Mew Phegeophy                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10.11
&eWM   Poduicdh                 0.09  0.20  0.11                            0.40    OhrCac_m
10.81
COu Sood&e  &                   So  0.88  0.61  0.70  0.72  0.51  0.35     3.7     Lem
12.01
Oher Equlpn                    0.60  1.40  0.62  0.78  0.60  0.35           4.40    LCm3
13.41
Vohlaes                        0.50  0.50                                  1.00     km"
(0.91
Load Coaam Stwle               0.42  0.12  0.11  0.10  0.10  0.05           0.90    cue.
(0-91
hUemdcnsCcnAutbrid   8         0.27  0.05  0.14  0.10  0.08  0.08          0.70    cow
10.71
T _      _            0.64  0.89  0.94  0.87  0.48  0.38          4.20
14.23
RAmSt Caob                     0.48  0.09  0.67  0.63  0.58  0.55           3.60
11.81
701AW                            8.S4 12.80 15.73 17.97 17.94 16.20         89.07
xds* Fbem                        17.21 111.01 13.6) 1(15.7) (156.) 114.3)   (7.4)
NaIei Flw.. It Oasm on deo~o loopd"   ttam finncd by doe SWn* Wide Ike Qumd



_ _  _ _       ff       - euouuu___
t/!'~~~~~~~~ 01l



AndhfaPaa   Mr !Pnt
Pmjd  _"Il"wtPbn
_W f vE   1  0  1       01         0 I   n$  "0     I     1        01       Q1   Ot      i _
ID:  Nba(AcV er Ev                                          Q4 W1023141112 *0110X          M1Q 0311*1$0200401=>01X4
-ii        , -    -  .- 
C 4   (2) SECTOR ,OCY R_FORMW
Is       kAdhb     eenwt StudyB 
76  (3) PROCUREMENT
77    -Proeure Vehicles
70       Pr.   .Equipent
79       Procure Seedlngs
so       Buildings and CMIl Works Constrctigon
81  (4) FOREST MANAGEMENT
32       Joint Forest Management on Fores Land
83          Prducon Foestry on Fores Land
34              FD. Rejuvenation of bamboo forests
of              PD: Regeneration of high-valuie forest                                                    ___
36              FD: Rehabilitation of existing teak planationo
31              FCC: High-yield plantations
as       Forest Dev. on Leads Outside Designated Forests
so          On comul lands                                                           _
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .~,;,,,~  , _ -
S0          On pdvate wastelanos (clstrers)
SI          SmJllholno es   faana g oestry (Extension Services)3 @_____                                         ______



1994       1995     19 I     I     T     i 1918       1999       2000       200l      2C0_
ID   Name ofActlyor Event                                  Q011021030 0 10 10310  1102102104 0110Q010          034  010     012Q3          10 030A1 0I13
92  (6) bPECIAL ACTION PROGRAMS n
93       Plant propagatn and foredryt research
94          Appobt Consutanwts
95          Plan Program of Research & Plant Propagation
96           Inplerent Program According to Plan _
9?       Support to JFM
99       Blokdlverlty Conservation                                               E
100          Appont Conulnts                      _                      o AppabdCrt
101          IPAS Study
102           _pementlPAS PStudy 
103      CollaboratIve Fodder Develpment Program                                      SY
104          Appon Cosa                                                    C ortants
10o          Bulkt-up of hIcrementl Specialist StaffLn
103          Plan Prograrn m                                           W
107           mewmnt Program                                                                    _ =
10S      TrIbal developnent plan
109          Buld-up of Incrme    Spechilist staff
110          PbnAbs lan AcIItIves
11t         mknpleent Plan                                                                      0      R
112  (81 TRANW   (forAII Prjed Components)                               _                                           low
113      Employ TrainingAdviwsor                                    Enpo Tra       AM
1U       Plan Trainig Prgramr
116     mbnpement Trainr PoM                              



- 86 -
INDIA                                      Annex 
ANDHRA PRDES917 STRY  QROJECT                              Page 1 of 2
BENEFIT SHARING ARRANGEMENTS UNDER JOINT FOREST MANAGEMENT
Excerpt from GOAP Government Order Ms. No. 224, dated 11.11.1993, regarding
constitution of Vana Samrakshana Samithis:
G. USUFRUCTORY RIGHITS:
1.    the vSS will have their usufructory rights. provided it
disclarges its duties and responsibilites cast upon them under
the Rules. rt shall be within the competence of VSS acting
through its Managing Conuittee to assign the shares of the
usufruct, equitably among its members. For the purpose of
usufructory rights, each household is threated as one member.
2.    Usufruct will be of two kinds i.o., reserved items and
non-roserved items. Non-reserved items like:
aJ Leaf and grassed fodder: (b) thatch grass: tc) broom
grass; (dl Thorny fencing materials: (e) Fallen twigs.
shall be made available to the Members of VSS free of cost.
3.    In respect of timber and poles, riqht to the same can be
earned by VSS after fulfilling the responsibilitcs under these
rules. Joint Forest .Management Plan would set apart 50% o( thle
products harvestable for self-consumption amont the members of
VSS and 50 will be earmarked to the Department. Ilowever, in
case of surplus produce, not required by Samithi ms-mbers for
their  own  use.  saLa  shall  be  done  throuqlt t ha  Mtnaftninq
Committec.
4.    The members of VSS only will be allowed to have access to
collect from the forests his/her share of usufruct.
H. OTHER REGULATIONS:
1.    Access to forest land and usufructory benefits will be
allowed only to the members of V.5.8.



- 87 -
87                      ~~~~~~Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
2.    cutting of trees should not be permitted before they are
ripe for harvesting. The Forest Department also should not cut
the trees on the forest land being protected by the members of
Vss excpt in the manner prescribed in the approved Joint
rooest Management Plan. In case of emergency needs the members
of V5s and the Maaging Coamittee should be taken into
cof idence.
3.    the areas to be selected fot treatment under Joint Porest
Management. should be free from the claims (including existing
right. privileges concessions) ofaay person who is not a
beneficiary under the scheme.
,,   Wborevwr   voluntary   agencies  are   avalAble,  with
iuperiene in forestry programs., they may be associated to
play the role of a facilitator and interface between the forest
departmnt and the community. They can articulte the views of tho
oCnanity whiuh is yet to organise itself effeactively to
function as an institution. The Members of voluntary agencies
would not however be entitled to any remuneration, rights or
besofits under the Joint Forest Management Programme.
S. TMe village falling within the watersheds as identified
by O.P.A.P. may be given preference in introducing of Joint
Forest Manageent Programes so as to enable to integrate with
the holistic activity.
6.    Ihe DivisionaL Forest Officer may supercede VSS for
sufficaient reasons only after the approval of the Uistrict
forestry aoia.tee.
7.   The Joint Forest Management Programme will be reviewed
after a period of 10 yrnro, but the oovtrnw'nt ren'erv'm the
rlght to do so. even earlier, If the circumstances so warrant.



- 88 -
Page 1 of 2
AMDHRA PR SRE FORS=  pRo7eCT
PROJECT IPENTomra  VOLUME.
Table of Contents
Annex 1     Forestry in Andhra Pradesh
Annex 2     Background to Sector Reforms
Annex 3     Plant Propagation Research and Technology Development
Attachment 1:    Draft TOR for Specialists' Consultancies
Attachment 2:    Culling of Seedlings in Nurseries
Annex 4     Resource Assessment and Information Technology
Attachment 1:    Draft TOR for MIS Development
Attachment 2:    Draft TOR for GIS Development
Attachment 3:    Draft TOR for Forest Survey
Annex 5     Training Program
Attachment 1:     Summary of Training Costs
Attachment 2:    Draft TOR for Training Adviser
Attachment 3-7:  Detailed Training Programs and Costs
Annex 6     Selected Items Concerning Organization and Management
Attachment 1:    Draft TOR for Institutional Development
Study
Attachment 2:     Institutional Issues
Attachment 3:    Gender Issues
Attachment 4:    Summary Contents of Annual Work Program
Annex 7     Biodiversity Conservation and Protected Areas
Attachment 1:    Map
Attachment 2:    TOR for Integrated Protected Areas System
Study and Specialists' Consultancies
Annex 8     Fodder Development
Annex 9     Approaches to Joint Forest Management and Ccmmunity Forestry
Attachment 1:     Key Indicators



- 89 -
Page 2 of 2
Annex 10    Tribal Development Plan
Attachment 1:     Zmplementation Arrangements Tnside and
Outside Reserve Forest Areas in Tribal JFM
Villages
Attachment 2:     Implementation Arrangements in ITDA Areas
Attachment 3:     Reactions to JFK in Different Districts
Attachment 4:     Customary Rights, Livelihood Patterns and
Perspectives of Tribal Women
Annex 11    Guidelines for Forest Treatment Practices
Attachment 1:     List of Species
Appendices 1-12: Detailed Guidelines for Treatment
Practices inc. Detailed input/output
Tables
Annex 12    Project Cost Tables
Tables 1-14:      Detailed Cost Tables
15-22:      Summary Cost Tables



- 90 -
Project Implementation Volume
Final Preparation Main Report Feb-93
)pnrnimal MiAmlian Work14tn Dnoument*
Assuaptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
Institutional and Financial Assessent - APFDC
Pra-Apraital MisRion Norkengt Donumnt-
Environmental Assessment and Sociological Impact Report
Observations on Treatment Practices during Field Visit*
Attitudes of Tribals of Andhra Pradesh towards Joint Forest
Nanagment
P~a~art tn  i**Ian Norkdng newnumtanta
1        Forest Resource Analysis G Information System
2        Forest Policy and Legal Analysis
3        Institutional and Financial Analysis
4        Forest Technology
5        Livestock and Fodder Development
6        Forest Industries
7        Forest Economics and Marketing
8        Rural Sociology
9        Wildlife and Biodiversity
ath.
APFD - Facts and Figures 1993
APFD - Report on Institutional Development Apr-93
APFD - Management Models Nov-92
APFD- Supplemental/Revised Notes Apr-92
APFD - Background on Andhra Pradesh Forests Jan -92
APFD - Farm Forestry and Village Woodlot Survey Reports Mar-91



MAP SECTION



MAHARASHTRA                          .
;  >rPRADESH 
e:~  ~ ~ Aa
KA KNATAKA    '."                   C-OWA                                  Go- SAGi
-    ~ ~ ~                'I. ~~~~ ~~ GQDAYARI 
INDIA
KARNATAKA  ~ ~ ~  ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OES  RESAN   ANFA,E
TAMIL  NADU ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~        WMA M MM
SW~~~MST~ocoS



