Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 24456
PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 2573-IN)
July 8, 2002
Sector and Thematic Studies Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Name: Rupees, Currency Unit: (Rs.)
Appraisal     1994 Rs.3 1.00 = US$1.00
Completion    2001 Rs.45.60 =US$1.00
Abbreviations and Acronyms
APFD          Andhra Pradesh Forest Development
EDC           Ecodevelopment Committee
ERR           Economic rate of return
FDC           Forest Development Corporation
FMIS          Forest Management Information System
FRR           Financial rate of return
GIS           Geographical information system
IDA           International Development Association
ICB           Intemational competitive bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
JFM           Joint Forest Management
MIS           Management information system
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NGO           Nongovernmental organization
NTFP          Non-timber forest product
OP            Operational Policy
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TDP           Tribal Development Plan
VSS           Van Samarakshan Samiti
Fiscal Year
April 1 -March 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation           : Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department        : Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluations          : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                      . Mr. Ridley Nelson



The World Bank
Vashington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
July 8, 2002
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Performance Assessment Report on Andhra Pradesh Forestry Project
(Cr. 25730-IN)
Attached is the Performance Assessment Report (PAR) for the India Andhra Pradesh Forestry Project
(Cr. 25730-IN), for which a credit in the amount of SDR 55.6 million (US$77.4 million equivalent)
was approved on February 24, 1994. The project closed as scheduled on September 30, 2000, and was
fully disbursed (US$91 million equivalent). There was no cofmancing.
The main objectives of the project were to increase forest productivity and quality, protect the
environment, alleviate rural poverty, and strengthen sector policies to be consistent with those
objectives. They were to be achieved by: (i) introducing local participation in protection and
management of public forests; (ii) increasing the productivity of designated forest lands and other
marginal lands; (iii) maintaining and improving biodiversity; (iv) increasing private participation in
sector development; and (v) improving public forest management and development. It was expected
that through these activities the project would also increase the subsistence and incomes of fringe
forest populations, many of whom are tribal people.
The project components, after some relatively minor mid-course correction, were: (i) regeneration and
rehabilitation of forests by Joint Forest Management (JFM) including special investment for tribals.
(ii) increasing forest productivity on forest land through support for in-filling and plantations,
including the establishment of high-yielding eucalyptus plantations under the Forestry Development
Corporation (FDC). (iii) increasing forest production on private and communal lands through the sale
of quality seedlings and the promotion of group farm forestry. (iv) improving planting material quality
and conducting research. (v) biodiversity conservation, including improved Protected Area
management, eco-development with rural community participation, and research and education
programs. (vi) strengthening institutional and forest sector management including policy and
administrative reform, training, improving staff amenities, upgrading forest management facilities, and
installing a forest management information system. A Tribal Development Plan was prepared and
implemented. A number of associated additional activities were taken up by the proactive Forestry
Department including community thrift groups.
The project impact was, on balance, highly satisfactory notwithstanding substantial remaining
unfinished business for the follow-on project in addressing the needs of the poorest. Over the
relatively short time span of a single project, it transformed a previously largely "command and
control" forestry department into a service organization supporting forest management through
participation by community groups. There was significant improvement in governance and openness.
Many NGOs assisted with implementation. An important follow-on project will help to consolidate the
significant gains made. There remain however weaknesses in the extent to which the project supported
the poorest and some poor were losers rather than gainers. Among these are illegal forest encroachers
who lost the forest land they were cultivating without explicit compensation. Some may have



2
benefited from income earning elements of the Tribal Development Plan. While the issue of illegal
encroachrnent in forests in India and how to address it poses complex dilemmas, the lack of an explicit
plan to replace lost income represents a safeguard violation which needs to be addressed in the follow-
on project.
The PAR rates Bank Performance as Unsatisfactory because of the safeguard violation. The project
achieved, and in most cases exceeded, its relevant objectives with a satisfactory level of efficiency.
Approximately 850,000 hectares of degraded forest have been brought under improved management
and protection, more than twice the appraisal target; 335,000 hectares of JFM forest area have been
treated, about twice the appraisal target; 2,666 Vana Samrakshana Samiti (VSS, Forest Protection
Committee) were formed, about two-thirds more than the appraisal target. Although the project fell
short of its target for clonal plantations-about 8000 hectares planted against a target of 17,500
hectares-the growth rate in the eucalypt plantations has been outstanding. The project developed an
exceptional Geographical Information System and is able to annually show the changes in forest cover
for each VSS being supported along with a range of other data. This remote sensing imagery clearly
shows significant improvements in forest cover. The project also supported a number of important
interventions related to wildlife and protected areas.
The project findings, tempered by other OED experience, offer five main lessons. First, it is possible
to turn around the strategy of a large public entity from command-and-control to community
participation quite quickly given commitment at the top. It is a longer process to develop community
skills and create incentives throughout the service. Therefore, sustained skills development for
government staff especially at the lower levels and for other stakeholders in participatory processes
over periods longer than a single project is necessary. Second, in any tribal forest situation there is a
high potential for involuntary resettlement. During project review, Bank management should carefully
question claims in natural forest management projects that no involuntary resettlement issues are
anticipated. Third, even where a high percentage of the poor are forest dependent, it is much easier to
manage forests for trees than for the poor. Equitable distribution of the benefits needs early attention
through pro-poor policy, government and community processes, and resource management systems.
Fourth, economic analysis of community development interventions will usually be incomplete if it
assesses only the net benefits associated with members themselves or their allocated area. This is
because others may have previously utilized resources inside the boundary, and also because members
may have previously utilized resources outside the boundary.
Attachment                                                   _I



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first,
to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the expected
results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of lessons
drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending operations. In
selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are
relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have
requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical
approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
(a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the information
provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent
to the borrower for review-, the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary. level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed
in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).
Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity
cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest,
Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely,
Highly Unlikely,-Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitabte and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratUngs: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ..............................v
Key Staff Responsible ..............................v
Preface                                      ..vii
1. Background ..............................1
2. Findings ..............................1
Lessons.                                                                            2
Future Directions.                                                                  3
3. Analysis .............................4
Relevance.                                                                          4
Efficacy ..............................4
Efficiency ..............................7
Institutional Development ..............................7
Bank Performance ............................. 10
BorrowerPerformance .............................                                  13
Sustainability .............................                                      13
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet .............................                                   17
Annex B. Comments from the Borrower .............................                         19
This report was prepared by Ridley Nelson (Task Manager). William Hurlbut edited the report. Helen
Phillip provided administrative support.






v
Principal Ratings
ICR*                   ES*                   PPAR
Outcome                            Highly Satisfactory    Highly Satisfactory    Highly Satisfactory
Institutonal Development Impact          High                   High                  High
Sustainability                          Likely                 Likely                 Likely
Borrower Performance                  Satsfactory            Satsfactory           Satsfactory
Bank Performance                      Satisfactory           Sabsfactory          Unsatsfactory
* The Implementabon Completon Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operahonal division of the Bank. The
Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Task Manager            Division Chief            Country Director
Appraisal                Ann Clark               Shawki Barghouti          Heinz Vergin
Midterm                  Chris Keil              Ridwan Ali                Edwin R. Lim
Complebon                Irshad Khan             Ridwan Ali                Edwin R. Lim






vii
Preface
This is a Performance Assessment Report (PAR) for the India Andhra Pradesh Forestry Project
(Cr. 25730-IN), for which a credit in the amount of SDR 55.6 million (US$77.4 million equivalent)
was approved on February 24, 1994. The project closed as scheduled on September 30, 2000, and was
fully disbursed (US$91 million equivalent). An Implementation Completion Report (Report No.
22021) was submitted by the South Asia Region on March 8, 2001.
The report was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) based on the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 12193, January 24,
1994), the Development Credit Agreement, and review of Bank files. The project was also discussed
with Bank staff, beneficiaries, govemment staff at central, state, and district levels, corporations, and
nongovemmental organizations (NGOs). Villages visited within districts were randomly chosen with
some accommodation to travel efficiency. The cooperation and assistance of all stakeholders, NGOs,
and government officials is gratefully acknowledged, as is the support of the staff of the World Bank
Country Office in India. The report benefited from preliminary findings based on the field work for a
case study of World Bank project impacts on Scheduled Tribes being undertaken in AP by OED. That
work is not complete yet and may, therefore, supplement or modify some of the findings reported in
this PAR.
The ICR is clear and generally well presented, although it leaves room for further drawing of lessons
and did not address the issue of forest encroachers in relation to Bank safeguard policies. Following
standard OED procedures, the draft PAR was sent to the borrower for comments before being
finalized. The comments of the Andhra Pradesh Forestry Department are included as Annex B.






1.     Background
Forests cover about 20 percent of India's land area and contribute about 1 percent to GDP. The forest
area has increased slightly in recent years, but about 42 percent of the forested land is degraded and
nearly all forest land is state-owned. About 200 million people, about 20 percent of the population,
depends partly or entirely on forest resources for a livelihood. About 6.4 million hectares of the state of
Andhra Pradesh (AP) is designated as forest-about 23 percent of the land area-the actual forest cover
is closer to 4.7 million hectares. Forest land is about 70 percent deciduous, 25 percent thomy, and 5
percent other forest types-about 45 percent of the forest land is degraded. There are three main zones:
the coastal plains, the eastem ghat hill ranges running northeast to southwest, and the westem peneplain
with rolling topography. Rainfall ranges from 750 millimeters per year in the South to 1,300 millimeters
per year in the north.
The main objectives of the project were to increase forest productivity and quality, protect the
environment, alleviate rural poverty, and strengthen sector policies to be consistent with those
objectives. They were to be achieved by (i) introducing local participation in protection and
management of public forests; (ii) increasing the productivity of designated forest lands and other
marginal lands; (iii) maintaining and improving biodiversity; (iv) increasing private participation in
sector development; and (v) improving public forest management and development. It was expected
that through these activities the project would also increase the subsistence and incomes of fringe
forest populations, many of whom are tribal people.
The project components, after some relatively minor mid-course correction, were:
*  Regeneration and rehabilitation of forests by Joint Forest Management (JFM) including
special investment for tribals.
*  Increasing forest productivity on forest land through support for in-filling and plantations,
including the establishment of high-yielding eucalyptus plantations under the Forestry
Development Corporation (FDC).
*  Increasing forest production on private and communal lands through the sale of quality
seedlings and the promotion of group farm forestry.
*  Improving planting material quality and conducting research.
*  Biodiversity conservation, including improved Protected Area management, eco-development
with rural community participation, and research and education programs.
*  Strengthening institutional and forest sector management including policy and administrative
reform, training, improving staff amenities, upgrading forest management facilities, and
installing a forest management information system.
2.     Findings
The project was highly relevant to the needs of the forestry sector of Andhra Pradesh, but it was
relevant to the needs of different elements of the forestry sector in different ways. It was highly
relevant to the environmental objective to regenerate degraded forests and restore biodiversity. It was
relevant to the needs of many farm families partly dependent on forests. Relevance to the poorest,
however, is more questionable although some certainly benefited. The project was instrumental in
developing and consolidating a fundamental shift in the AP approach to forest management. Arguably
AP is now the leading state in India in shifting to JFM.



2
Institutional development is rated high. While there is unfinished business on institutional
development, particularly in improving consultative processes and skills and procedures for funds
management and forest land allocation, the institutional turnaround over a relatively short period in a
public service department with a long tradition of command and control has been impressive.
Substantial social capital has been generated through the support for community involvement in forest
management. NGOs rightly continue to point out numerous areas of shortfall. They are impatient with
slow progress and lack of transparency. But, given the difficulty of tuming around a large government
bureaucracy, progress has been good by any reasonable standard.
Outcome is rated highly satisfactory. The project achieved,  Outcome is highly satisfactory: the
and in most cases exceeded, its relevant objectives with a  project achieved a substantial
satisfactory level of efficiency. Approximately 850,000   strategic change in a short time; the
hectares of degraded forest have been brought under       focus needs to shift now to ensure
improved management and protection, more than twice the   that the poor benefit more, and that
appraisal target; 335,000 hectares of JFM forest area have  encroachers find viable alternative
been treated, about twice the appraisal target; 2,666 Vana  livelihoods.
Samrakshana Samiti (VSS, Forest Protection Committee)
were formed under the project, about two-thirds more than
the appraisal target. Including VSS outside the project the total numbers reached about 6,000. The
program of introducing smokeless stoves (chulas) may have reduced the use of firewood but some
observers have found that many did not work or were not used. Although the project fell short of its
target for clonal plantations-about 8000 hectares planted against a target of 17,500 hectares-the
growth rate in these plantations has been outstanding.
However, during the follow-on project, which had been pre-appraised at the time of the PAR mission,
two concems, mainly related to the extent to which the poor and encroachers have gained or lost, need
to be addressed. First, as noted above, the Bank's safeguard policy on involuntary resettlement was
violated. Ellegal encroachers have been evicted from forest land that has been newly allocated to VSSs.
In at least some cases and possibly many cases, this has been without de facto compensation. While
some of the former encroachers may have picked up temporary labor income this was without explicit
compensation since there was no formal arrangement for resettlement and rehabilitation'. Second,
some poorer community members have been forced, either by Forestry Department (FD) or by a VSS,
to sell their goats or to stop headloading of wood for sale. While this may have been beneficial for
forest growth, it reduced income for some households. These challenging equity concems, with no
easy solutions, need to be resolved under the next project.
LESSONS
Several generic lessons from this project underscore findings elsewhere.
1. It is possible to tum around the strategy of a large public entity from command-and-control to
community participation quite quickly given commitment at the top. It is a longer process to develop
community skills and create incentives throughout the service. Therefore, sustained skills development
for govemment staff especially at the lower levels and for other stakeholders in participatory processes
over periods longer than a single project is necessary.
1. In Annex B the AP Forest Department dispute that there was any forced eviction. They also note that encroachment, being
illegal, cannot be compensated. They argue that no VSS members complained of lost land. The mission, based on field
observation, discussion with NGOs, and findings of the subsequent OED Tribal Study Survey, believes that some
households, although an unknown number, did loose land-based income sources as a result of the project without explicit
arrangements aimed at fully and sustainably replacing that income. As noted later in the report, the mission is aware of the
complexity of this issue. Under the follow-on project it appears it is being addressed through a Ressettlement Plan.



3
2. In any tribal forest situation there is a high potential for triggering involuntary resettlement. During
project review, within the new safeguard monitoring management formats, Bank management should
carefully question claims in natural forest management projects that no involuntary resettlement issues
are anticipated and focus on this issue should be sustained during supervision.
3. Even where a high percentage of the poor are forest dependent, it is much easier to manage forests
for trees than for the poor. Equitable distribution of the benefits needs early attention through pro-poor
policy, pro-poor government and community processes, and pro-poor resource management practices.
4. Economic analysis of community development interventions will usually be incomplete if it
assesses only the net benefits associated with members themselves or their allocated area. First,
because others may have previously utilized resources inside the boundary, and second, because
members may have previously utilized resources outside the boundary. Whether the net costs and net
benefits balance out is an empirical question requiring attention.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS
Some issues specific to Andhra Pradesh require attention under the follow-on project:
*  Evicted encroachers under the first project should be traced and evaluated for income replacement.
This will be challenging and procedures to limnit false claims will be needed. A plan should be
developed for handling future encroachment cases. This is in hand as a draft Resettlement Plan for
the follow-on project but it will need refining with NGO input.
*  Social audits following agreed procedures supported by NGOs and random audits of VSS/FD
accounts at village level by private auditors should be adopted.
*  More attention should be given to equity and the impact of FD and VSS decisions on the poorest.
Monitoring and training to give FD and VSS members techniques for listening to and responding
to the needs of the poor will be important.
*  A grazing policy, called for originally under the AP Forestry Project but of uncertain status,
should not be promulgated unless it is to be simply a process-based policy. Grazing strategy at the
state level is not amenable to generic controls; optimal forage management is too location-specific.
Localized grazing management strategies may well be beneficial at village level to both people
and plants but should be supported with location-specific social and technical advice rather than be
governed by a generic strategy2.
*  At present, the coverage of JFM is limited. It now needs to be further extended to the non-
degraded forest areas which present different sets of challenges.
*  A realistic and actionable strategy for resolving the differences between JFM practice in AP and
the national Forest Conservation Act is needed to ensure no reversals on permissible timber
harvest practices and benefit sharing. (Some harvest plans have been on hold because of this -
which threatens the JFM concept). Within this framework, the benefit sharing arrangements for
timber - for both intermediate and final products - need further clarification. Model calculations
should be made available publicly to demonstrate precisely how net benefits will be determiined.
*  More needs to be done on demand and supply projections and price forecasting. With such
widespread synchronized regeneration and plantation establishment, price crashes are possible.
*  The current revisiting of the Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) monopoly over NTFP needs
to be completed quickly. Floor prices or privatization are likely to be the main options, but testing
of alternatives with selected products on a pilot scale may be warranted.
2. In Annex B, the AP Forestry Department say there is no initiative to force a policy on grazing. However, the mission found
that there was a draft document that appeared at one time to have been under consideration.



4
3.     Analysis
RELEVANCE
Project relevance was high overall. This finding is consistent with recent findings in the India
Evaluation Country Case Study for the OED study - 7he World Bank's 1991 Forest Strategy and Its
Implementation (2000) - which concluded that the Bank's aggregate forest sector assistance in India
had been relevant, although needing improvement, particularly in integrating agriculture, rural
development, and forest sector strategies and in building an overarching Bank strategy for the forest
sector. It noted that the selection of promising states, such as Andhra Pradesh, to show what could be
done was an appropriate route to that strategy. It is widely acknowledged that the project was
instrumental in consolidating a fundamental shift in the AP approach to forest management, building
on earlier experience both locally and in other states. It was highly relevant to the regeneration of
degraded forests, and, in due course, restoration of biodiversity. It was relevant to the needs of many
farm families who partly rely on forests for their needs. However, the extent to which it was relevant
to the poorest of the poor and those predominantly dependent on forests is more questionable. If there
were not some questions in this area relevance would be rated high.
EFFICACY
Social impact data are lirnited, but imnpact data on forest cover changes are excellent. Efficacy-the
extent to which the project objectives were achieved taking into account their relative importance-is
rated high. Community participation was introduced (objective i); productivity was increased
(objective ii); biodiversity was improved, although on a limited scale (objective iii); and public forest
management was improved (objective v). The extent to which private participation was increased was
more modest (objective iv), but private seedling nurseries were supported and a number of
employment opportunities were developed. Approximately 850,000 hectares of degraded forest were
brought under improved management and protection, more than twice the appraisal target; about
345,000 hectares of JFM forest area were treated, about twice the appraisal target; 2,666 VSSs were
formed, about one-third more than the appraisal target and assisting about one-third more households.
There has been some observation of impacts on Naxalite movement practices possibly associated with
the project - see Box 1. Sixty-five Women Community Volunteers were trained. Support was
extended beyond the project to 3,550 more villages using non-project funds. Impact surveys suggest a
reduction in fuelwood use of 37 percent due to the program of smokeless stoves (chulas), which would
have reduced smoke-induced health problems. However, some observers have questioned the validity
of this data. The project fell short of its target for clonal plantations established by the Forest
Development Corporation-about 8000 hectares against a target of 17,500 hectares-however, the
timber growth rate has been outstanding with yields for clonal eucalypts expected to reach about
200m3 per hectare after seven years compared to about 70m3 per hectare for non-clonal material.
Substantial work was also done by FD on medicinal plants both in research and extension.
Poverty Impact and Gender. Relative to projects in  Many poor VSS members have gained
other sectors, efficacy in reaching the poor has  short-term income and can anticipate
probably been satisfactory since forests support many  substantial future income gains, but
of the poorest rural people in India. 74 percent of  some - possibly many - goat owners,
respondents in the OED Scheduled Tribes Study  headloaders, and shifting cultivators
reported that their incomes had increased but all  have lost income and some of those
respondents in non-VSS villages felt their incomes  outside the VSS may not see any project
had decreased - due to loss of land allocated to VSS  benefits.
villages who still often had access to non-VSS village
areas. However, efficacy in improving the welfare of the poorest within the selected communities has



5
been weaker. Livestock herders, fuelwood headloaders, podu cultivators (shifting cultivators), and a
disproportionate number of women, all within the poorest groups, may too often have been losers,
although some have picked up temporary employment on water conservation structures3 or benefited
from the Tribal Plan support. The India Evaluation Country Case Study for the OED study - The
World Bank's 1991 Forest Strategy and Its Implementation (2000) - highlighted the potential poverty
impact of forestry interventions but also noted the challenges of including poor tribal people in the
benefits and the potential hardships that the initial protection phase can cause to the poorest.
Nevertheless, some indication of overall, efficacy is that there is a demand from non-VSS villages4 to
be included, although this is probably as; much related to the fact that it is the route to funding than to
any longer-term assessment of benefits. The OED Scheduled Tribe Study survey found that
indigenous people were clearly among the groups that benefited. The follow-on project aims to do
better at supporting the disadvantaged. While the failure to reach the poorest is a weakness, getting the
coverage and processes widely in place first, and deepening the pro-poor focus as skills increased, in
retrospect was probably the best approach given the window of opportunity for this fundamental
strategic shift5.
Box 1. Interface with the Naxalite Movement
The Naxalite movement (named after a village in West Bengal where the movement started in 1967) started as a
revolt against the inequities of land distribution in India. For many years Naxalites have operated, usingviolence
against government, in poorer tribal forest areas. (The mission saw two recently dynamited government
buildings.) They support and exploit tribal needs for more control over the forests than is enabled by the FD and
the Forest Conservation Act. There is mixed evidence on the impact of the project on the Naxalite movement and
vice versa. There has been some suggestion that earlier antagonism to the JFM program by Naxalites, who had
been encouraging forest clearance for agriculture, has reduced somewhat. If this was the case, it would be an
important contribution. About 40 percent of Andhra Pradesh VSSs are operating in areas dominated by
Naxalites6. In a few areas, however, villagers who have seen the benefits from the JFM program have started to
turn pressure back on the Naxalites to allow JFM, with, reportedly, some limited success. There is evidence that
in AP Naxalites are themselves supporting some interventions similar to those under the JFM program.
However, overall the picture is still mixed. There remain large areas of forests where the Forest Department have
no control and where such things as NTFP prices and renovation of ponds are determined entirely by the
Naxalites. While in many Naxalite locations it is impossible to provide outside support because of the risks,
some of this pressure has had positive impacts on GOAP strategy.
The Tribal Development Plan expenditure made quite a significant contribution to poor tribal
households. Of the 251,600 households included in VSSs, 124,000 families were from scheduled
tribes and other weaker sections of the communities who benefited from this plan or other associated
support. The plan support provided skills, amenities, and income-generating investments such as
percolation tanks, leaf plate making, and fruit trees. Wisely, benefits for tribal peoples were extended
3. People in several villages complained about the ban on goat grazing. One man, when asked why he had not replaced his
goats with sheep, which the VSS was pernittiniz .said that as soon as he sold his goats the money lender had demanded
immediate repayment.
4. Preliminary findings from the OED Scheduled Tribes Study survey.
5. In Annex B, the AP Forest Department argues that the project did reach the poorest. The mission's position is that, overall
many poor were helped, as indicated by the Tribal Study survey. Nevertheless, the mission spoke to some members of VSSs
who appeared to be mostly the poorer ones, who had lost income due to changes such as bans on goat grazing and
headloading. Moreover, from the Tribal Study survey evidence, it seems clear that a number of non-VSS people, often in
neighboring villages to VSS villages, lost out due to loss of forest resource access of various kinds.
6. At this point in the Box the final draft seen by AP Forest Department had referred to Adilabad as having some non-
functional VSSs due to Naxalite activity, in the light of AP FD comments in Annex B, and lack of direct evidence, this has
been omitted.



6
to others when it became apparent that discrimination might cause discontent. The impact studies,
covering 10% of the VSSs formed up to March 1998, were carried out by a number of different
institutions and NGOs. They show significant benefits in a number of areas but are of variable, mostly
modest, quality and do not establish a "without project" counterfactual or baseline.' They suggest that
the average income increases within VSSs sampled has been Rs5,600 per household per annum (this
is close to a model calculation that suggested about Rs5,400). However, income losses over the
protection phase, for example from reduced goat grazing, do not appear to have been captured by the
impact surveys, nor losses to people outside the VSS.
The project had some positive impacts related to gender issues. Women make up about a third of the
members of Managing Committees. Women VSS members.formed 1,175 thrift groups-an activity
not envisaged at the beginning. This was associated with the reported 400,000 such groups in AP as a
whole which mobilized $240 million last year. Overall, the Forest Department did a good job of
supporting such AP-wide developments and tapping into other sources of support for VSSs, although
NGOs have complained that there is still insufficient program inforrnation available to villagers.
GIS System. The GIS system established by the project is certainly
the best of any Bank forestry project in India, and probably one of  The GIS, a remarkable
the best globally, although there have been weaknesses in ground  achievement, shows good
truthing. It has now provided four years, coming up to five, of  and quite rapid
annual forest cover remote sensing data for each VSS forest area  improvements in forest
showing a consistent trend in forest cover improvement-a unique  cover.
record that is of increasing value. The computerized maps are
contoured, carry the location, specifications, and cost of structures, and show roads and other VSS
data. It is a costly system (though costs have been reduced by using it as a training program), but it
will almost certainly pay off in the long run. As noted by the NGOs, there remains an urgent need to
revisit VSS boundaries in many cases.
Hydrological Impact The mission found no convincing quantitative evidence on the soil moisture
conservation gains of the forest improvement and soil conservation structures, although there is some
positive anecdotal evidence. However, it is too early to expect quantitative evidence. Apart from the
fact that this is a complex hydrological issue, because forests not only improve water percolation but
also extract more water than most other vegetation, it would take a number of years to separate the
impacts of forest change and man-made structures from the impact of rainfall pattern.
Some Missed Technical Opportunites. Unfortunately, interagency coordination difficulties prevented
implementation of a collaborative forage program. This leaves a very important component lagging for
the follow-on project. Forage production, and testing of appropriate and practical rotational livestock
management systems in different forest zones, perhaps adaptations of the Holistic Resource
Management system, is extremely important in ensuring sources of income for the poor.
Two neglected areas of technical efficacy that are relevant to poverty alleviation are livestock and
fisheries. The potential for livestock production, fed with both fodder crop and managed rotational
grazing systems, is substantial and has not been addressed. The potential for fish farming in the larger
water conservation tanks created by the project and related programs may be significant in the less
ephemeral waterbodies. Specialist help from the Fisheries Department should be sought. As with other
common property resources, there are options to designate tank fishing rights to the poor that could be
explored. (This has been done in Bangladesh.)
7. No indicators were set at the start. The impact studies were contracted out to a number of agencies. Guidance on
methodology was insufficient to assess the counterfactual.



7
EFFICIENCY
Efficiency is rated substantial. The ICR found a satisfactory ERR: a 22 percent base case,-rising to 26
percent taking fuelwood at an economic parity price, and 29 percent including global carbon
sequestration benefits. The methodology used in the ICR was largely, but not entirely, satisfactory.
The re-estimated ERR is slightly higher than the 20% ERR estimated at project appraisal. The
methodology questions relate to a widely encountered generic issue with economic analysis of
community development: by treating the benefiting communities and their allocated land area as the
unit of analysis, net gains or net losses outside those areas are omitted. Also omitted are possible
economic costs from changed management practices iriside the village area, for example increased
fuelwood collection pressure on village revenue land i.e. outside the reserve forest area. In particular,
it is not clear from the economic analysis what the impacts on surrounding areas or non-VSS members
have been. This is partly an equity issue but also partly an economic question.8 It would be fair to
record, however, that getting data on external cost or benefit streams is, by its nature, extremely
difficult. Thus, in the absence of a substantial study, it can reasonably only be expected to be alluded
to qualitatively. Also, there are data questions about carbon sequestration given the lack of ground
surveyed data on standing biomass. However, it is unlikely that these uncounted costs net of possible
uncounted or reduced benefits would reduce the ERR below the Opportunity Cost of Capital.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Institutional development impact is rated, on balance, high, but there is much still to be done to
complete the transition to effective statewide commnunity forest management, to achieve equitably
distributed income, and to resolve land allocation issues. Nevertheless, by global standards, progress
over the six years has been commendable for such a fundamental strategic redirection.
The contribution to building social capital at the village level has been more than substantial
notwithstanding the significant task still ahead. While NGOs are impatient with rate of progress and
weaknesses, the dramatic change in direction has been a major achievement - in line with a number of
similar shifts in AP over the last five years. Social capital gains have been achieved not simply in
direct forestry related activities but in reiated areas such as thrift groups.
Among the other project institutional achievements were: the development of an exceptionally
successful GIS system (although, as noted, there are still forest inventory shortcomings); the
completion of the Institutional Development Study for'APFD, which was reorganized modestly in
1998; good training manuals and operational guidelines; a Government Order issued to guide the
implementation of JFM; and amendment of the timber transit rules to give deregulation and
simplification. The AP Forest Act is in the process of being amended. The monitoring part of
Monitoring and Evaluation was handled well with above average data reporting. Evaluation was
handled less well. There were sample inmpact studies contracted out but the mission reviewed the
methodology and a sample questionnaire carefully andi found the approach and guidance limited in its
capacity to elicit incremental attributable net benefits or to show poverty alleviation impact. This is a
globally widespread weakness in rural projects.
The reorganization could have been more aggressive in terms of staffing and procedural changes but
appears to have been generally well handled and gave a somewhat more efficient staffing distribution.
However, there are still a number of procedural issues to be addressed including some irregularity of
meetings by the District Forest Committees - a concern expressed by NGOs. Also, the performance
8. The larger the share of total VSS managed land in the total forest area, the more these extemal trans-boundary cost and
benefit impacts become internalized as the extemal zone shrinks. But that is still some way off.



8
incentives arrangements need further attention. There are some outstanding concems related both to
possible delays in FD Working Plans for harvest and in compatibility of those plans with village
microplans and VSS wishes which need resolution quickly if benefits from harvest of timber products
are not to be delayed. The synchronized regeneration that is underway is going to put a strain on
harvest planning capacity.
NGOs. The project worked with NGOs wherever they were available, a total of 257 of them (there are
about 10,000 NGOs operating in AP as a whole). However, in some areas, no suitable or interested
NGOs could be found. There is some evidence from the impact surveys that VSSs supported by NGOs
performed better. Many NGOs, and the AP NGOs' Committee on Joint Forest Management, have
mixed feelings about the project and the Forestry Department. On the one hand, they believe the
project has resulted in a number of promising new directions and they support a follow-on project. But
they also expressed concems, the most important of which are summarized in Box 2.
Box 2. NGO Concerns
NGOs voiced a number of concerns and recommendations for the future at a meeting the mission held with the
NGO Committee on Participatory Forest Management and in written material. These are reported here without
commnent on validity. The mission agrees in whole or in part with a number of them and these are discussed at
the appropriate point in the text9.
* Planning and institutional issues include: (i) VSS land should be allocated on natural boundaries rather than
FD administrative boundaries, where previous land use arrangements involved several villages there have
been problems and delays addressing land disputes; (ii) The Tribal Development Plan is too similar to the
Village Development Plan, it needs more tribal-focussed differentiation; (iii) Village microplans should
include institutional roles and responsibilities.
* Financial issues include: (i) VSSs still have little control over funds use, which is based largely on Forest
Department Treatment Models. A program of transfer of financial responsibility supported by training and
NGO help is needed. Fund disposal should primarily be at VSS level; (ii) How beneficiary shares will be
calculated needs clarification. Rights over bamboo, plantations, and growth that existed before the VSS are
especially unclear. Much pre-VSS growth is still due to community protection and should be rewarded;
(iii)There is insufficient reward to VSSs whose members catch timber smugglers. A share of fines should go
to the VSS. Arrangements for fines should be clarified; (iv) FD procedures for funding NGOs are haphazard
and insufficiently transparent.
* Production issues include: (i) Too little is being done to develop production and income from NTFPs. VSSs
should be given rights to sell NTFPs on their own; (ii) Livestock need more attention; (iii) There should be
no Grazing Policy-each village is different. Goats should not be banned. There should be integrated village
livestock plans.
. Poverty impact and gender issues include: (i) Some tribals undertaking shifting cultivation, grazing, wood
collecting, etc. have been marginalized within the VSSs. They need more representation on the Management
Committees; (ii) There should be poverty indicators for the next project; (iii) There should be more
women's representation and focus on women's production concems. There is an extra burden on some
women due to JFM.
* Institutional structure and process issues are: (i) the District forest committee meetings are not regular.
There should be regular meetings at range and divisional level; (ii) There should be an ombudsman.
* Issues directly related to the follow-on project are: (i) Terms of Reference for the role of NGOs in the next
project should be developed by a stakeholder committee; (ii) Many NGOs are suspicious of the title of the
follow-on project - Community Forest Management - they see it as a cosmetic shift signaling greater
handover to VSSs than they believe the FD is prepared to deliver. They would prefer that a change of name
should follow further advances in community approach rather than precede it.
9. In Annex B, the AP Forestry Department responds to many of these NGO points As indicated in the Box, in the interest of
providing the NGOs a voice, the mission reports here the main points raised by them without comnmnent. The AP FD response
is therefore useful for balance.



9
Institutional Tensions. Notwithstanding the substantial  Although the strategy is to hand over
institutional achievements, a number of problems remain,  forest management to local
mainly related to performance at the community level.  communities, APFD still maintains a
First, there appears to be a divergence between the intent  predominant focus on, and
of JFM, which is for conmmunities to largely manage the  responsibility for, forest cover,
allocated forest area, and FD management rules, which call  controls public funds, and
for working plans formally approved by the FD. At    commands the technical skills. There
present, in many villages, it appears that the working plan,  are therefore a number of
prepared by the Forest Officer but not at the village level,  institutional tensions to be resolved.
is paramount and is largely rubber-stamped by the VSS
committee(s). Instead, the village Microplan should become the working plan and should be under the
control of the VSS with the FD holding the right to veto extreme practices, such as clear-felling, that
would violate their forestry oversight remit, and also giving technical advice'. Currently, as noted by a
number of observers and NGOs, the FD working plans focus on timber, while NTFPs are the
predominant immediate interest of the poorest. NGOs believe that VSS committee members have
generally been less poor than the poorest and therefore are more interested in supporting, rather than
questioning, the forest staff's focus on timber rather than NTFPs. Second, this same divergence is
evident in financial management, where the intent is for VSSs to manage funds but where, in late
1998, the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) felt compelled by the fiduciary responsibility
imposed by both government and the Bank to issue a warning to staff that they must ensure proper
records at VSS level. The problem here is that the government cannot devolve more financial
responsibility to communities while still holding its own staff responsible for misuse or poor recording
of money at community level. Some risks may have to be taken if real transfer of financial
responsibility is to be effected. But also VSS presidents would need to be held more accountable.
(There are pros and cons for the proposal under the new project for two accounts at VSS level, one for
FD money and one for VSS money.) Third, the VSSs may still not be representing the poor or women
adequately. This is a widespread problem globally with community groups and cannot be solved by
edict. It needs continual attention and training of staff, communities and NGOs. Fourth, the VSSs are
largely unconnected to the existing panchayat system. This may have had its advantages initially, but
it is likely to become a problem in future, particularly since some of the broader VSS activities come
close to encroaching on panchayat social development responsibilities. VSSs need now to be anchored
legally within the panchayat system, even if loosely as associated committees with one common
member to allow breathing room. Fifth, as the ICR rightly points out, there is a danger that in its
understandable enthusiasm for a holistic development approach APFD will, and perhaps already has,
overstepped the bounds of its responsibility into a range of social areas it is not equipped to handle.
While in the opening phases of a forest-based rural development push some treading outside
institutional bounds may be useful for eliciting community interest and ensuring a holistic approach,
this will need to be reined-in in subsequent phases to remain within broad forestry skill areas and to
retain overall state government efficiency. Concern about overstepping bounds has been raised before
by OED about other forestry projects in India"1.
The Needfor Community Performance Analysis and Exit Plans. As might be expected, there is a
wide range of performance across VSSs. NGOs have done a good job in supporting them. An
institutional maturity study involving the analysis of factors that seem to contribute to strong VSS and
poverty performance would be useful. This would also help to differentiate those VSSs needing less
10. In Annex B, the AP Forest Department agrees with the importance of coordination between working plans and micro-
plans and outlines a number of steps that are now being taken to ensure this.
11. See India Alleviating Poverty Through Forest Development, Evaluation Country Case Study Series, OED World Bank,
2000.



10
help from those needing more help. This would then lead into an exit strategy, which needs to be
planned at the community level with community participation. Under the follow-on project there
should be an agreed set of criteria for stages in increasing community self-sufficiency and FD
withdrawal. Government cannot provide continued intensive facilitation support for VSSs
permanently.
FD Skills and Incentives. With respect to FD skills supported under the project, understanding of
participatory community approaches appears, from mission observation, to be increasing at both
senior levels and lower levels. Some individual lower level staff exhibited quite strong participatory
skills. However, there remains an element of authoritarian FD approach at the community level, which
is exacerbated by the military-style uniform which is clearly incompatible with a JFM approach.
Beyond the longstanding tradition, the authoritarian approach arises partly from lack of skills and
partly from anomalies in the community approach itself vis a vis government regulations. NGOs
propose more differentiation of training by groups and by need.
The FD recently has initiated a performance-based incentive system for staff that is arguably unfair
and may result in a distorted outcome. In the new system, postings choices, a very important matter in
the Indian civil service, are based on improvement in forest cover in areas under the staff member's
responsibility-as confirmed by the annual remote sensing imagery. Under this system, trees, rather
than incomes for people, become the objective. Depending on how it is applied, it may also be unfair
to staff in relatively more challenging climatic areas. The incentive system needs to be revisited. Any
new system developed should give a substantial weighting to expressed VSS satisfaction with local
FD staff performance (as reported by men and women separately).
BANK PERFORMANCE
Bank performance was, for the most part, fully satisfactory, in some respects highly satisfactory but
there was a safeguard violation, albeit one with a number of complicating aspects. Bank preparation
and appraisal support assisted generally strong quality at entry-although there are some questions
about the extent of informed participation by tribal people in VSSs'2. Supervision, which shifted
halfway through the project from headquarters to the Country Office, was especially strong on the
technical side and with respect to participatory forest  Bank performance was generally
management skills'3. The supervision decision to permit the  good, but for a violation of the
Forestry Development Corporation to handle the clonal    Involuntary Resettlement
planting material following problems in finding qualified  safeguard. This compels an
bidders was pragmatic and appropriate. The Mid-term      unsatisfactory Bank performance
Review was well handled, although it should have picked up  rating.
the emerging encroachment safeguard issue.
A Safeguard Volaton. It is claimed by FD that encroachment and shifting cultivation was reduced by
81 percent in JFM areas-good for the forests but in some cases bad for the poorest, at least in the
short term. In pursuing this encroachment reduction, some, and possibly many, encroachers in forest
reserve areas allocated to VSSs were moved off their cultivated land either by the Forest Departrnent
or by VSSs themselves without explicit compensation and without any formal process of keeping track
of them. There appear to have been varying degrees of compulsion or voluntariness. In some cases
12. The OED Scheduled Tribes Study draft suggests that the predominance of the Telugu language in AP and low literacy
means that many tribal people are not aware of what is being discussed at meetings or of written material available and
particularly of the financial workings of their VSS.
13. There is a touching memorial plaque to a deceased Bank staff member - Norman Jones - at one of the Forestry Research
Stations in gratitude for his exceptional technical services.



11
wage labor or income-generating investments under the Tribal Development Plan may have defacto
compensated some families, at least partially, but more by chance than by established process.
Notwithstanding these losses by individual households, overall, the OED surveys for the Scheduled
Tribes Study found that the project had enhanced customary rights for many tribal people by giving
them more control over forest areas. The extent of uncompensated loss of land by individual
encroachers remains unclear partly because, with the encroachers gone, they are not readily observed.
However, the fact that it has occurred in a number of cases is not in doubt. One case was found during
the mission field visits. The field work for the OED tribal study also found several complaints about
the loss of cultivable land in one project VSS and one complaint on behalf of others not present in a
non-project VSS. In addition, NGOs quoted a number of cases that appeared to be based on first hand
observation'4.
What the 1990 Operational Directive Says About This. The 1990 Involuntary Resettlement
Guidelines, applicable at the time of appraisal, call for a formal process of compensation. There is no
doubt that these Guidelines did apply to encroachers in AP, although the issue of encroachers is
certainly a complex one. The specific language of Operational Directive 4.30 includes the following:
"The objective... .of the policy is to ensure that the population displaced by a project receives benefits
from it.... Displaced persons should be .. .compensated for their losses.. .assisted with the move and
supported during the transition period. ..and assisted in their efforts to improve their former living
standards.... If suitable land is unavailable, non land-based strategies built around opportunities for
employment ... may be used ....Resettlement plans should be based on recent information about the
scale and impact of resettlement on the displaced population..... Compensation is facilitated by
....developing mechanisms to prevent illegal encroachers... entering to take advantage
of.. .compensation arrangements.'5.. Some types of loss, such as access to... .forest areas cannot easily
be.. .compensated for in monetary terms. Attempts must therefore be made to establish access to
equivalent and culturally acceptable resources and eaming opportunities ...."Earlier in the OD it notes
that, "The absence of legal title to land by such groups should not be a bar to compensation. " And
later it notes that, "Vulnerable groups at particular risk are indigenous people .. .who... .may not be
protected through national land compensation legislation.  The objective is to treat customary and
formal rights as equally as possible in devising compensation." It should be noted that the 1990 OD
4.30 does not explicitly include illegal encroachers in forest areas although it does state that illegal
encroachers, subsequent to notification of the project land requirements, need not be compensated.
However, the explicit mention in the OD of loss of access to forest areas and the reference to
customary rights indicates that the intent of the OD was that encroachers in forest areas should be
counted as involuntary resettlers. Other than in areas of overlap related to the same issue, the 1991 OD
4.20, the Indigenous Peoples Operational Directive, does appear to have been adhered to. A quite
comprehensive Indigenous Peoples Development Plan was prepared and implemented and, in fact, the
number of beneficiaries covered by it was extended beyond that envisaged in the plan.
The Numbers and the Dilemma in Applying the Operational Directive. The precise number of
households who were displaced from their land but did not receive compensation that adequately
replaced their livelihood is not known since, as noted above, some who were displaced may have
14. The South Asia Region acknowledges that some people lost encroached land but they also note that despite their best
efforts to gather information during supervision, it was only after the project closed, while preparing the follow-on project,
that they learned about the details and extent of retrieval of encroached forest lands from the social assessment study carried
out by the Andhra Pradesh Forest Department (September 2001). They confirm that the follow-on project has built in
mitigation measures to deal with any such eventuality in the future as well as support to adversely affected families due to the
previous project through group-based economic activities.
15. This was clearly a reference to encroachers who become encroachers for the purpose of gaining compensation, e.g.,
moving up to the edge of a road that they know will soon be widened.



12
received sufficient replacement of livelihood through the benefits of the Tribal Development Plan
support. This encroachment issue was raised in the recent India Case Study of OED's review of the
Bank's 1991 Forest Strategy'5. It must be acknowledged, however, that this particular safeguard
presents complex issues and dilemmas for both Bank and borrower in a forest environment. First, if a
formnal compensation process for illegal forest encroachment had been established, it would have
substantially increased the incentive for illegal forest encroachment, as indeed happened India-wide in
1987 when the government suggested that they would legalize encroachments existing before 1980, a
decision that was later reversed. Thus, the social consequences of applying such a safeguard in this
particular case are probably net positive, at least in the short term, but the environmental consequences
may be negative with, potentially, some degree of intrusion into areas covered by the Bank
environmental safeguards. Second, even the social consequences would be mixed since, in some cases,
substantial encroachment in upstream forests is likely to have negative consequences on equally poor
people lower in the catchment. Third, the removal of encroachers did not begin with the project itself
but has been part of an intermittent but on-going process - of limited success. Following OD 4.30
therefore is not a simple matter in this case. Nevertheless, however challenging the practical
application of the safeguard may be, and however complex the social and biological relationships, the
Bank did not initiate any action to resolve this issue in the context of this project and, by the termis of
the Bank's safeguards, it should have.
Resettlement Action Plan. To the credit of both the Bank and borrower, for the follow-on project, a
draft Resettlement Action Plan to deal with precisely this issue has been prepared. The draft seen
addresses the issue fairly well, but there is limited definition of types and level of compensation and
income support for cases where substitute land cannot be found. It allows encroachers who do not
wish to avail themselves of altematives (following VSS/FD persuasion) to remain on their plots
provided certain forestry-based land use practices are followed. It provides for picking up previous
encroachers indicating that, "in terms of eligibility for R&R support, all those families who have been
in occupation of forestland assigned to VSS since its constitution will be entitled to receive R&R
assistance". Tracing earlier encroachers who have moved and excluding false claims and allowing for
possible income compensation already provided under the Tribal Development Plan will not be an
easy task but it should be given priority. The total numbers out of a total of 5000 VSSs to be reached
after the second project are about 46,000 families of which about 13,000 are landless and the
remainder have some holdings outside the VSS forest area. The mission notes that there is likely to be
a big difference in income impact between those who, subsequent to VSS forest land allocation, end
up as VSS members eligible for the VSS benefits and those who do not and are also not picked up by
neighboring VSSs. The proposal indicates that surrender of encroached land will be voluntary and a
consent letter will be signed. If a family chooses to stay they will be expected to take up agro-forestry
or plantations. There is obviously risk of pressure being brought to bear, even by the VSS itself, and a
need for an independent appeals body. There are also issues here related to the Forest Act. It will be
important that poor encroachers who have been using forest land as an income source and did not
move in for the purpose of getting compensation be differentiated from commercial types of illegal
encroachment such as businesses, private housing, commercial plantations, and tourist lodges. Illegal
encroachment in these cases should still be actively pursued to the full extent of the law. Criteria for
this differentiation will be needed.
16. See page 73 of the India - Alleviating Poverty Through Forest Development Case Study OED 2000 where it notes:
"However, there is very little recognition in the Bank documents about the hardships that tribal groups face when land is
brought under protection."



13
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Borrower performance was satisfactory, in many respects highly satisfactory. While, as noted above,
much remains to be done to address equity and rights issues, improve participatory skills, and extend
JFM to forest areas that are not yet degraded, the APFD made a fundamental about-face in the way
forests are managed. Strong comnmitment is evident at the highest levels and there is a degree of
openness about solving problems that did not exist before. Public access to information was enhanced
although there is still more to be done.
Governance and Transparency. With respect to govemance, NGOs expressed concems about
transparency and the misuse of public funds under the project notwithstanding some progress towards
openness. There appears to have been grounds for these concems and there have been a number of FD
staff removed from their positions in APFD for misuse of FD funds. However, there has clearly been
an attempt to improve public funds management both in the FD and AP as a whole under the guidance
of the Chief Minister. For example, in some VSSs there are large painted notice boards at village level
showing the main project expenditures. However, implementation of transparency appears weaker
than the rhetoric. For example, NGOs note that these village notice boards are not kept up to date and
there is still lack of information on programs available. Supporting openness, the Chief Minister has
required a round of quarterly public meetings (Janmabhoomi) at each village where district public
servants are supposed to provide information about programs and listen to grievances. But these also
are claimed by some NGOs to be not living up to their promise - although the mission did not witness
a Janmabhoomi in action.
Willingness to tackle corruption appears to be there at the higher levels of FD. There are now clear
instructions from the PCCF to staff that no Forest Range Officer or Forester should directly pay any
contractor for VSS works, although the mission was not able to establish how closely this is actually
followed. Overall, therefore, there have been efforts in the govemance direction. But more needs to be
done in the direction of the design of systems for openness and transparency.' APFD indicated that
they have plans for this under the follow-on project. In particular, the use of social audits following
agreed procedures and supported by NGOs and sample spot random audits of VSS/FD accounts at
village level by private auditors should be adopted. A percentage for audit should be pre-determined -
perhaps 1 percent per year. This would need backing up with a program of training in book-keeping
for VSS members.
SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability is rated likely overall. Sustainability is defined as the resilience to risk of net benefits
flows over time, in particular, how well the project can be expected to weather technical, financial,
economic, social, environmental, ownership, and institutional, shocks. There are a number of elements
in this case.
Sustainability of Government Commitment to the Community Forest Management Approach. There
is little doubt that the AP government's commitment to the approach will be sustained. It comes from
the highest level of government. Whether the Ministry of Environment and Forests and the central
government more broadly is on board to the same extent is more doubtful. The anomaly that a number
of the interventions being supported in Forest Reserve areas by the APFD under JFM are arguably at
17. The NGO coordinating conmmittee would like an extent of openness that would tell them which NGOs have been paid
what amnounts for what tasks. As the mission indicated to the NGOs, there are costs as well as benefits to this aspect of
openness. It would be highly inefficient if large numbers of NGOs took to pursuing the FD to ask why a particular NGO had
been selected for a task or why it had been paid a particular arnount.



14
variance with the national Forest Conservation Act, and the fact that court cases could still, in the
future, force strict adherence, leaves concem about whether the forest regeneration now occuring can
be fully exploited"8. Some states, including AP, have requested changes in the legislation, and there
have been various degrees of bending of the rules and inconsistencies between the law and directives.
Given the complexity and range of competing interests it is questionable whether this anomaly is best
addressed by changing the law or by applying it in a more flexible manner either at the state level or
through adjusted central directives. Given the increasing national strength of the JFM movement, the
mission expects that these anomalies will gradually be resolved by some means. But there are
uncertainties and risks. Another AP commitment question is to what extent JFM will actually be
extended to less-settled and less-degraded forest areas - areas which present different sets of rights,
incentives and management challenges. The intent to move in this direction is demonstrated by a
recent February 2000 JFM central government circular and some APFD officers have already started
doing this. But some NGOs doubt how far this will be taken.
Sustainabiity of the VSSs as Local Forest Management Entites. VSSs appear to be sustainable in a
narrow sense. Any VSS that walked away from the rights to a large and exclusive share of the
substantial benefits of a forest area would be extremely ill-advised. In that sense, it is possible to
anticipate that VSSs will be sustained in the longer term. In the shorter term, until substantial income
flow from regeneration starts, VSS members can be expected to lose some interest in the absence of
project-paid labor. In the OED survey, only 4 out of 29 villages visited were getting significant income
flows from NTFP and timber harvest. For the others this was still in the future. However, provided this
loss of interest does not reach the point of complete collapse with a reversion to no protection, the
regeneration will probably continue reasonably well while the price of neglect will grow quite
rapidly'9. This seems the most likely scenario, except possibly in the driest areas. A more difficult
question is the extent to which VSSs will be able to sustain a technically and financially sound
equitable management system with full village participation. It is possible to conceive of future
difficulties that are unlikely to result in a total failure to manage the forest area sustainably but that
could result in inequitable management practices and serious intemal conflict. Community groups are
not inherently pro-poor (although representation seemed reasonably balanced in villages visited) and
may increasingly exhibit capture by the wealthy as the high value of harvestable timber becomes
evident. Moreover, VSS financial skills are still very weak and need more attention. At present, VSS
committees appear to give insufficient consideration to the possibility of paying cash dividends, and
have excessive focus on locking up income in the VSS comnunity fund or using it for commnunity
investments. Cash dividends will help the poor. These issues will have to be monitored, managed and
guided by the Forest Department and supporting NGOs.20
18. In Annex B, the AP Forest Department argues that Joint Forest Management is neither an illegal activity nor does the
Forest Conservation Act specifically prohibit it. However, the mission found that there are clearly some land use practices
which night be chosen by a VSS under a JFM arrangement which are against the forest legislation and there appear to be
some differences of interpretation in different states. Some unease was expressed to the mission by the Ministry of
Environment and Forests about some practices which suggested that there remain some differences of interpretations about
what the legislation permits. Hopefully the law can be applied pragmatically to achieve a win/win for people and the
environment.
19. Community groups have been observed elsewhere, in both Bank and NGO programs, to grow and weaken in pulses as
resources over which decisions must be made, increase and decrease. But often this is simply a process of reshuffling and
rekindling of social capital which emerges from hibernation again when the incentives become more evident e.g. in this case,
when the value of the timber and NTFP becomes sufficient. The challenge here is to bridge the incentives gap without
irretrievable community forest management collapse.
20. One possible perverse aspect of this to be watched will be the possibility that the VSS committee, working with Forest
Officers whose incentives are toward increased forest cover, may react to the challenges of deciding how to share benefits in
communities with internal conflict by taking the easy way out and choosing protection rather than utilization for income.
Indeed, during field visits there appeared to be somewhat excessive focus of protection and insufficient attention to



15
Sustainabiity of the Income Streams; At least as important as sustainability of the forests, and an
element in the sustainability of the VSSs, is the sustainability of the income streams that create the
incentive for people to maintain interest in forest management. In this respect, the situation is in
transition and the capacity of the poor to handle that transition is important. In the more degraded
areas, and in the drier zones, forest and NTFP recovery is relatively slow and improved incomes are
not yet matching the previous (unsustainable) off-take. The project aimed to compensate for this
through employment in the construction of water management
structures and through forest management work. The impact  The government is committed
studies, with all their weaknesses, seem to suggest that, for the  and overall sustainabiity is rated
many people who are members of the VSS, this was probably  likely overall, but the ability of
just about achieved. (Further information on this will come from  the FD and the VSSs to sustain
OED work on the impact on tribals currently underway in AP).  sufficient focus on equity to
Village visits by the mission suggested that, in the drier areas,  develop and maintain long-term
with slower regeneration, there may still remain an income gap  participation by the poorest
to be filled for a few more years. However, in the high rainfall  needs more attention.
areas, with faster regeneration, a significant flow of income can,
in most cases, be tapped very soon. Overall, the rate of regeneration is remarkable (as it has been
found to be in other parts of the world), and a plausible hypothesis would be that it will not be the rate
of growth that will be the income constraint but the rate at which both FD and the VSSs can translate
utilization of that growth into income and get it into the hands of the poor. In this respect, the
finalization of Felling Plans and the integration of those with Microplans appears to be a constraint.
Sustainabiity of the Forests Themselves. The remote sensing imagery, now covering a four-year
period, appears to be unequivocal: forest cover is steadily improving under VSS management, almost
universally. The data suggest that, in six JFM sample districts, since 1996, dense forest cover
increased by an average of 19 percent and open forest by as much as 26 percent. Natural regeneration
increased by 60 percent in some cases. The number of tree species increased significantly and it is
claimed that forest fire incidence was reduced by about 50 percent. The establishment of fast-growing
eucalyptus plantations with a potential of 2,000,000 incremental cubic meters of wood per year will
have a substantial impact on reducing demand elsewhere in natural forest. However, in a situation of
quite widespread natural forest regeneration managed by communities, production increases may have
positive environmental impacts but negative income and poverty impacts depending on price
elasticities and the extent to which a household is a consumer or producer. It will not be easy to
forecast the net impact on welfare.
Sustainability of Biodiversity. The project contributed positively to biodiversity conservation. Four
new Protected Areas were created. An Integrated Protected Areas System (IPAS) Plan was prepared,
and implementation was initiated. Some 240 Eco-development Committees (EDC's) around 11
Protected Areas were established, although they have not functioned as well overall as the VSSs. A
Biodiversity Cell was established and, in the field, the Wildlife Divisions were strengthened. Research
was completed on 13 topics related to wildlife ecology. Substantial work was undertaken in
reforesting mangrove areas. Within the VSS managed forest areas the mission observed directly, and
was informed of, gains in fauna, including the return of leopards (for herders and wood collectors not
a benefit). There remain some challenging issues about the role of EDCs and the members more
limited freedom (compared to VSSs) to utilize forest products in Protected Areas. NGOs raised this
concern. This is a complex India-wide issue with no easy solutions. Since this was a small component,
this PPAR does not address that issue in depth. It is simply noted that AP is little different from other
management for optimal production. On the FD's part, felling plans, which call for FD as well as VSS involvement, seem to
be lagging.



16
states on this parks versus people issue of what rights of access and collection forest dwellers or fringe
residents should have to wildlife parks.
Financial Sustainabiity of the Project Initiated Support While a number of uncertainties on
financial sustainability remain, on balance it is rated as likely. The project pumped into the sector
about US$14 million per year over 6 years. The government contribution was approximately 10
percent of this at US$1.4 million per year. Can that level of expenditure be sustained? Does it need to
be sustained? Based on the budget levels of the APFD there is little possibility that approximately 10
times the 1999 project budgetary allocation could be found, although during the project period the
government of Andhra Pradesh did, in fact, find substantial additional funds for several years for
support for many additional VSSs outside the project areas. However, by the time the follow-on
project is completed, incomes from regenerated forest areas should be more than sufficient in most
cases to cover forest management costs at the VSS level, and the VSSs themselves, with close to 10
years of operational experience by then, should be largely sustainable with modest levels of "touch-
up" maintenance support from both the FD and NGOs. As the value of regeneration grows, one
financial question warranting more consideration relates to the extent that financial institutions could
contribute to incentives and financial sustainability by advancing VSSs funds for the cost of
harvesting operations or development investments secured by the standing product as certified by FD
inventory. Some work in this direction has already been done.



17                                               Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
INDIA ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 2573-IN)
Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal                 Actual or                Actual as percent of
Estimate                  current estimate         Appraisal estimate
Total project costs              89.1                      91.0                      102%
Credit amount                    77.4
Some data missing from ICR
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY94      FY95     FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99      FY00      FY01
Appraisal estimate            2.3      10.1      20.9      36.3      51.9      67.3     77.4
Actual (US$M)
Actual as percent of appraisal
Date of final disbursement:
Some data missing from ICR
Project Dates
Original                     Actual
Identfication                                              01/92
Preparation                                                04/92 - 02/94
Appraisal                                                   04/23/93
Negotiations                                                11/93
Board Presentation                                         02/24/94
Effectiveness                 07/29/94                     07/29/94
Closing date                  09/30/00                     09/30/00
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks                         Actual US$000
Preappraisal                 143                                   348.8
AppraisalNegotations         76                                    197.4
Supervision                  136                                   351.7
Completion                   5                                     6
Total                        360                                   903.9



18                                            Annex A
Mission Data
Date        No. of   Staff days Specialization     Performance rating2    Types of
(monthfyear) persons in field  represented'  Implementation Development Problems3
Status         objectives
ldentification/  January 1992  10             TL(1), EC(2), PA(1), ES
Preparation  April 1992-                      (1), FS(2), FTS(1), S(2)
February 1993
Appraisal    April 1993/       9              TL(1), E(1), ES(1), FS
November 1993                   (2), FT(1), S(2), PS(1)
Supervision  June 1995        3               FS(2), FT(1)             S          S
July 1995        3               FS(2), FT(1)             S          S
October 1995     7               S(1), FS(2), E(1),       S          S
PS(1), FT(1), IT (1)
May 1996         4               FS(1), S(2), NRE         S          S
February 1997    9               NRE(1), PA(1), E(1);     S          S
FT(1), PS(1), ES(1),
DS(1), S(1), FS(1)
June 1997        2               FS(1), S(1)              S          S
December 1997    5               FS(1), SF(1), FT(1),     S          S
IT(1), CP(1)
June 1998        3               FS(1), SF(1), S(1),      S          HS
December 1998    7               FS(1), SF(1), S(1),
FT(1), FM(1), IT(1),
S(1)
June 1999        2               FS(1), NRM(1)            S          S
November 1999    8               FS(2), NRM(1), S(1),     S         HS
E(1), FM(1), SF (1)
June 2000        2               FS (1); SF(1)            S          S
Completion   November 2000     2              FS(2), FS(1), E(1)       HS         HS
E=Economist, PA=Program Assistant-COSTAB, ES=Env. Specialist, FS=Forestry Specialist, FT= Forest Technology Specialist,
S=Sociologist, PS=Procurement Specialist, IT=IT Specialist, NRE=Natural Resources Economist,DS= Disbursement
Specialist,SF= Social Forester,CP=Community Participation Specialist, S=Silviculturist, FMS=FM Specialist, NRM=Natural
Resources Management
Other Project Data
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                         Credit no.       Amount           Board date
(US$ million)
AP Community Forest Management Project (Under
preparation/appraisal)



19                                    Annex B
Annex B. Comments from the Borrower
GOVERNMENT OF ANDHRA PRRADESH
FOREST DEPARTMENT
From:                                 To:
Sri K. Subba Rao, IFS,                Mr. Alain Barbu,
Prl. Chief Conservator of Forests     Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation
.Andhra Pradesh,                      Group, Operations Evaluation Department,
"Aranya Bhavan"                       World Bank,
Hyderabad                             Washington D.C. USA
Rc.No. 47842/2000/PMU-III/2. dt.25 - 06- 2002
Sir,
Sub: A.P. Forestry Project (Cr. 2573 - IN) - Draft Project Performance
Assessment Reporto- comments - regarding.
Ref: Letter dated 30' May 2002, from Alain. Barbu, Manager, Sector and
Thematic Evaluation Group, Operations Evaluation Department, World
Bank, Washington D.C. USA
* *** *
It is to state that in the reference cited, a draft Project Performance Appraisal Report
on the performance of the already concluded A P Forestry Project (Cr. 2573 - IN) has been
received for comments. Following are the comments from the A P Forest Department.
Though-in the introductory part of the report, it is stated that the report is to appraise
the performance of the already concluded A P Forestry Project, the comments made in the
report have gone beyond that and they also include some comments on the A P Community
Forest Management Project, which has been prepared.as a follow.on Project to carry forward
and consolidate the gains of the A P Forestry Project. In the light of these remarks, the
comments of this Department include the steps that have been taken.on relevant issues in the
design of the A P Community.Forest Management Project that has been negotiated already
with the World Bank during May 2002.
The comments made in the report pertain broadly to
1.      Relevance of the Project to poor,
2.      Issues relating to encroachments in forest areas that were brought under the
Project and alleged violation of OD 4.30,
3.      Issues relating to grazing and livestock development
4.       Concems expressed by NGOs on the quality and extent of commitment in
the implementing agency
5.      Interface with Naxallite movement
6.      Insufficiency of programme information due to language barrier
7.      Comments relating to working plans and micro plans
8.      Conflicts between Forest Conservation Act and JFM
Detailed comments on the above are detailed hereunder:
Relevance of the Project to poor: The reference and conclusion drawn in the report
pertaining to relevance of the Project to poor is contested. The report, at one place, states that
the Project was not pro poor and that the poor actually lost out due to its implementation. At
the same time the report also quotes from the OED Scheduled Tribe Study survey, which has



20                                    Annex B
found that the indigenous (tribal) people were clearly amcong the groups that benefited. Thus
there is a contradiction in the contention of the report on relevance of the Project to the poor.
The socio economic profile of the members of the VSS presents a clear picture in that there is
hardly any rich individual who is a member. Membership of VSS, virtually is limited to the
poor and disadvantaged. When the project has been assessed to have been implemented inma
highly satisfactory manner, there is no way one can conclude that it did not reach the poorer
sections of the society who formed majority of the membership of VSS.
Issues relating to encroachments in forest areas that were brought under the Project:
The report has concluded that encroachments were evicted and'Joint Forest Management was
taken up. This gives a connotation of use of force (whatever may be its magnitude) in doing
so. This conclusion is contested. No force whatsoever was used and no one was evicted. It is
true that certain forest areas, which were formerly under illegal occupation, were brought
under forest management through Joint Forest Management. This is not to mean and
conclude that encroachments were evicted. No one has been displaced on account of
implementation of A P Forestry Project. All that has happened is change in land use. From an
unsustainable agriculture on illegally encroached forestland, sustainable forest management is
being practiced in a participatory way. By no means can this be termed as eviction and loss of
livelihood.
The reference to violation of OD 4.30 is also confusing. The report states "It should
be noted that the 1990 OD 4.30 does not explicitly include illegal encroachers in forest areas
although it does state that illegal encroachers, subsequent to notification of project land
requirements need not be compensated. However the explicit mention in the OD of loss of
access to forest areas and the reference to customary rights indicates that the intent of the OD
was that the encroachers in forest areas should be counted as involuntary resettlers." It is
rather confusing to note here that the report has concluded on violation of OD 4.30, which
according to the author is 'not applicable in the instant case. Encroachments and Customary
rights are not to be mixed up. No customary or legal rights have been infringed upon or
curtailed by Project implementation. Encroachments, by their very definition are illegal
activities and cannot be considered for compensation. Even the report has also acknowledged
this. It states "It must be acknowledged, however, that this particular'safeguard presents
complex issues and dilemmas for both Bank and borrower in a forest environment. First if a
formal compensation process for illegal forest encroachment had been established, it would
have substantially increased the incentive for illegal forest encroachment....". The report
further comnents on the likely negative consequences of encroachments both from
envirornental and social point of view. Considering all these predicaments and conflicting
views the conclusion that some one was adversely affected, is not correct. Following is
however the view of the Forest Departmnent of Andhra Pradesh in this regard:
It is true that in certain areas, forestlands under encroachment for cultivation of
agricultural crops have been brought under forest cover by some Vana Samrakshana
Samithies by raising suitable tree crops that can provide better income to them. However
there has been no coercion from the Forest Departnent over these VSS' members or any one
concemed with such activity and there has been no eviction. Infact agriculture that was
practiced on these lands earlier was uneconomical and was not a sustainable practice. More
over none of those who had occupied these forestlands had any legal right over such lands.
They had resorted to such occupation probably owing to poverty and lack of altemate
livelihood opportunities. Owing to unscientific and unsustainable farming practices that they
practiced, these lands had also lost fertility and lacked productivity. As these encroached
2



21                                    Annex B
lands had become highly impoverished, they were not giving adequate returns to the people
from agriculture. Thus poverty still persisted.
The villagers who had encroached these lands for cultivation, taking advantage of the
policy of the Government of Andhra Pradesh towards participatory forest management
(popularly called Joint Forest Management), organized Vana Samrakshana Smithies and
started activities towards reforestation, protection and management of forests on their own
initiative duly motivated and facilitated by the Forest Department with help of NGOs. These
villagers found forestry and Joint Forest Management more beneficial and remunerative
compared to the type of agriculture that they practiced before. Apart from having advantage
of wage employment flowing from investments under the Joint Forest Management activity,
they have also been assured of benefits of revenue from sale of usufruct harvested from
regenerated forests.
Most of these activities detailed above were taken up in the Vana Samrakshana
Samithies that received financial support from the World Bank aided A P Forestry Project.
During the long period of 6 years of the implementation of the A.P. Forestry Project, there
were no instances of any NGO complaining of any forcible eviction of people from the
encroached lands and of people losing their livelihood. There have also been no complaints
or representations from any VSS members that their encroached lands are forcibly taken
away and that they lost their.livelihoods. There were no reports also to this effect in the
press. In fact after implementation of the above said Project, the living standards of such
people have improved. Implementation of the A P Forestry Project has resulted in betterment
in the living standards of these people.
Issues relating to grazing and livestock development: Here also the report is unclear. It has.
been mentioned that a Grazing policy is on the anvil as part of the A P Community Forest
Management Project This is not correct. There is no such component or activity in the design
of this Project. This Project however supports activities to augment fodder resources. But
there is no initiative to force a policy on Grazing. However, through coordination with the
Animal Husbandry Departnent livestock development will be pursued. These activities will
not in any way lead to any conflicts and if any, they are likely to have positive fall out.
Concerns expressed by NGOs on the quality and extent of commitment of the
impleimenting agency, transparency in financial transactions and insufficiency of
programme information due to language barrier and lack of transparency: NGOs are
not a homogenous entity. Therefore one cannot and should not generalize what is said by one
or a few, to the entire NGO.community. It would have been proper if names of the NGOs
who expressed their opinion and voiced their concern were listed. There is a growing debate
in Andhra Pradesh on the role played by certain NGO groups and need for subjecting them to
audit on assessing their accountability to the cause for which they 'voice these concems'.
Despite these initial comments, following are the specific remarks on the issues raised by the
NGOs as mentioned in the report at Box 2.
Issue: Planning and institutional issues include: (i) VSS land should be allocated on natural
boundaries rather than FD administrative boundaries, where previous land use arrangements
involved several villages there have been problems and delays addressing land disputes: (ii)
The Tribal Development Plan is too similar to the Village Development Plan, it needs more
tribal- focused differentiation, (iii) Village microplans should include institutional roles and
responsibilities.
3



22                                    Annex B
Response: Allocation of boundaries to VSS has invariably been done following natural
boundaries and traditional access to villages. As regards the tribal development plan and its
similarity to village development plan, there was no such possibility as there was no
document called village development plan in the A P Forestry Project. Institutional
arrangements for implementing micro plans were covered in the guidelines and Government
Orders enabling Joint Forest Management. They are too similar across VSSs to merit separate
mention in microplans. However, the point is noted for future reference.
Issue: Financial issues include (i) VSS still have little control over funds use, which is based
largely on Forest Departnent treatment Models.  A program of transfer of financial
responsibility supported by training and NGO help is needed. Fund disposal should primarily
be at VSS level (ii) How beneficiary shares will be calculated needs clarification. Rights
over bamboo, plantations, and growth that existed before the VSS are especially unclear.
Much pre-VSS growth is still due to community protection and should be rewarded: (iii)
There is insufficient reward to VSSs whose members catch timber smugglers. A share of
fines should go to the VSS. Arrangements for fines should be clarified: (iv) FD procedures
for funding NGOs are haphazard and insufficiently transparent.
Response: Participatory forest management is an emerging and developing concept. From a
largely command control role, the Forest Department has switched over to a developer role. It
is now getting ready for a further step towards role of facilitator. All these things have
happened in a relatively short period of time. The report has rightly acknowledged this
development. While VSS have full control over resources, their control over funds has been
through Joint Account, a system that has been experimented with great amount of success.
With growing awareness and increasing flow of returns, the VSS will have greater control
over finances. This is an area. that cannot be rushed. The capacity to manage and control
should grow simultaneously. Recognizing this need, the Govenmment of Andhra Pradesh have
prescribed a dual accounting for the VSS, one to deal with funds coming from Government
and Projects and the other to handle the ones generated internally and from sale of forest
products. Training in handling these issues is being imparted and help of NGOs is also being
taken in this regard. As regards beneficiary shares the sharing arrangement is being simplified
to have clarity. However, as per latest orders enabling Community Forest Management in
Andhra Pradesh, it is the Managing Committee, which evolves guidelines and ensures benefit
sharing. Role of Forest Department and of NGOs here will be advisory in nature. Mechanism
for rewarding the VSS members who apprehend timber smugglers has also been simplified.
VSS will retain 50% of fine collected and remits the balance to the Government. Regarding
funding NGOs, mechanism is now very clear. It will be only through a proper MOU for
specifically identified activity. This was so during implementation of A P Forestry Project as
well. At district level steering committees comprising of FD Official and NGOs finalized and
monitored NGO funding. Clear guidelines were available on nature and extent of funding to
be provided to identified activities. In the light of this, the observation of haphazard and
insufficiently transparent funding of NGOs is not correct.
Issue: Production issues include: (i) Too little is being done to develop production and
income from NTFPs, VSSs should be given rights to sell NTFPs on their own: (ii) Live
stock need more attention, (iii) There should be no Grazing Policy- each village is different.
Goats should not be banned. There should be integrated village livestock plans.
Response: It is not correct to say that too little is being done to develop production and
income from NTFPs. The Forest Department of Andhra Pradesh, thanks to the A P Forestry



3                                    Annex B
Project,. has successfully multiplied high yielding clones of a number of NTFPs like
Tamaindus indica, Emblica officinalis, Sapindus emarginatus etc. These have already come
to production in a number of cases. The statement is not based on facts. As regards livestock
and grazing comments given already may be seen.
Issue: Poverty impact and gender issues include: (i) Some tribals undertaking shifting
cultivation, grazing, wood collecting, etc have been marginalized within the VSSs. They
need more representation on the Management Cormmittees: (ii) There should be poverty
indicators for the next project: (iii) There should be more women's representation and focus
on women's production concerns. There is an extra burden on some women due to JFM.
Response: About marginalization of some tribals, the matter has been dealt is great details in
the above paras. A comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation programme is on the anvil,
which covers the concerns voiced. The issue of women representation, has been amply
addressed in the latest order of the Goverment enabling Community Forest Management. It
provides for 50% representation for women in General Body and Managing Committees.
There will be vice chairperson in addition to chairperson for each VSS with one 'of them
being female member.
Issue: Institutional structure and process issues are: (i) the District forest committee rmeeting
are not regular. There should be regular meetings at range and divisional level: (ii) There
should be an ombudsman.
Response: Concem raised on frequency of District Forestry Committee meetings is noted.
The need for and role of ombudsmen needs clarity and justification. We have a number of
committees at various levels. In addition there are institutions of Vigilence Commissioner,
Anti Corruption Bureaue, Vigilence and Enforcement Department, Lok Ayukta in addition to
the well respected system of Judiciary. Ombudsman may be just one more institution, which
one can do without.
Issue: Issues directly related to the follow-on project are : (i) Terns of Reference for the role
of NGOs in the next project should be developed by a stakeholder committee: (ii) Many
NGOs are suspicious of the title of the follow-on project - Community Forest Management -
they see it as a cosmetic shift signaling greater handover to VSSs than they believe the FD is
prepared to deliver. They would prefer that a change of name should follow fuither advances
in community approach rather than precede it.
Response: These have nothing to do with A P Forestry Project. They are all answered in the
Project design and all other documents dealing with the Project. Stakeholders meetings were
conducted to assess the role NGOs can play in the area of participatory forest management.
Accordingly the A P Community Forest Management Project has made adequate provisions
for NGOs.
Interface with Naxallite movement: It has been mentioned that due to Naxallite. influence,
in Adilabad, a number of VSS are not functional. This is a sweeping statement not
substantiated by any data or specific detail. In the absence of any specific details, such
conclusion is not concurred. Interference from Naxallites is not limited to any particular
programme. It is more a law and order problem. However, as rightly pointed in the report,
there is growing acceptance of the concept of community management of forest resources
even in areas where influence of Naxallites is significant. This is only because the
programme is pro poor.
5



24                                     Annex B
Comments.relating to working plans and micro plans: While wvork-ing plans arc technical
documents that lay down strategic objectives for forest manage:lienft. micro plians are site
specific plans that express the felt needs and aspirations of communities managing forests. It
is very correct to state that in the absence of proper coordination between thesc two, results
can be disastrous. To avoid possible conflicts bctwccn the decentralized planning process
through micro-plans and thc working plans nt the division level. certain mnwsures have lbeeti
taken. The entire planning process will be modemized with inputs from remote sensing, (;IS
and MIS. Participatory forest mranagement calls for participatory planning, monitoring and
evaluation. Participatory Rural Appraisal will be the starting point.of the planning process.
This will lead to comprehensive micro-plans, which will set the development agenda for each
VSS during the Project. Under each working circle there will be a provision for VSS and
Micro-Plans. The prescriptions made for the working circle will be generally followed for.
the Micro-Plans also. This will be ensured at the time of PRA by adequately educating the
VSS members. Suitable provisions will be made in the respective working circles to
accommodate any special treatment / management prescriptions to be made for the forests
under the management of VSS as per people's aspirations and specific management
objectives like management of NTFPs, harvesting the crop for poles. small timber. issues
dealing with thinning regime in plantations, natural forests and forests regenCerated throulgh
coppicing etc. Care will be taken to ensure that these aspirations are in tune with the Nationial
and State Forest Policies. In respect of bamboo working circle. provision will be madc to
ensure that each VSS is treated as a separate series if the members desire to have harvesting
activities every year. Alternately if any VSS decides to harvest once in 3 or 4 years anid
obtain substantial yield, such VSS will form a part of larger series covering non-VSS areas
also.
Conflicts between Forest Conservation Act aiid JFM: The comments made on1 the
anticipated conf,ict between Forest Conservation Act and Joint Forcst Managcmcnt arc nlot
clear. Joint Forest Management is neither an illegal activity nor does the Forest Conservation
Act specifically prohibit it. In the light,of this, aspersions expressed are not based on any
facts. Infact there is no such conflict.
General: The Forest Department of Andhra Pradesh thanks the mission for a thotlit
provoking repor. on the performance of the A P Forestry Project. If this report had come a
little earlier, it would have helped in designing the A P Com munity Forest Management
Project greatly. However, the observations made have been noted for future guidancc.
Specific clarifications detailed above may please be seen as response from the Forest
Department of Andhra Pradesh.
Yours faithfully.
>X          Pr]. Chie f Conservator of F orests
6












IMAGING
Report No.:         24456
Type:     PPAR



