Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:      22021
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25730)
ON A
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION
TO THE
INDIA
FOR A
ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY
03/08/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1993)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 31 = US$ 1.00 (at appraisal)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 45.60 (at completion)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APFD      Andhra Pradesh Forest Development
EDC       Ecodevelopment Committee
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FDC       Forest Development Corporation
FMIS      Forest Management Information System
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
GIS       Geographical Information System
IDA       International Development Association
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IFM       Joint Forest Management
MIS       Management Information System
MTR       Mid Term Review
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
NTFP      Non-Timber Forest Product
OP        Operational Policy
PA        Protected Area
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
TDP       Tribal Development Plan
VSS       Van Samarakshan Samiti
Vice President:    Meiko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Irshad Khan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     8
6. Sustainability                                                                         8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          9
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                        11
9. Partner Comments                                                                      12
10. Additional Information                                                               15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Pro ect ID: P010449                                      Pro ect Name: ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY
Team Leader: Irshad A. Khan                             7TL Unit. SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 8, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY                       L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25730
Country/Department. INDIA                                               Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: AP - Perennial Crops; AT - Forestry; VM - Natural
Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/03/92                                Effective: 07/29/94           07/29/94
Appraisal:  04/23/93                                 MTR: 02/06/97              02/06/97
Approval:  02/24/94                                Closing: 09/30/2000         09/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/FOREST DEPT GOAP
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                          Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                 Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Ridwan Ali                                Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:   Irshad A. Khan                           Ann Clark
ICR Primary Author:   Paul Ryan (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project provided for a Credit of US$77.4 million. The objectives of the project were to increase forest
productivity and quality, protect the environment, alleviate rural poverty and strengthen/streamline sector policies
to be consistent with these objectives. A key element in the achieving of the objectives was transforming, what had
become an intractable problem of human interference in the forests, into a cooperative partnership between forest



fringe dwellers and the government for the protection and management of forests. The framework for this joint
forest management (JFM) approach was the participatory development of micro-plans for the area covered by each
village forestry committee or Vana Samarakshan Samithi (VSS).These plans took into account the compensatory
needs of the villagers, many of whom had relied heavily on the forest for livelihood. It also agreed terms for
management and protection activities by the villagers, the remuneration required for this and the mode of sharing
forest benefits between the VSS and the government. Support was also provided for private sector involvement in
tree growing. These elements were to be enhanced by tribal development support, well directed research, improved
planting material, and institutional reform and training. The key design elements were mutually supportive and
provide a realistic approach to protection and enhanced productive management of forestry in Andhra Pradesh as
well as to the alleviation of poverty, particularly for forest dependent people, in a realistic way. The project
objectives were highly relevant and consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and government
priorities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not revised
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components were:
*   Forest Management: Supporting forest regeneration and rehabilitation through: (a) participatory
rehabilitation offorest lands, involving development of degraded forest lands under joint management
arrangements between forest fringe dwellers and the Andhra Pradesh Forestry Department (APFD); (b)
production forestry on forest lands, involving the regeneration of bamboo forests and plantations of teak and
other high value species or high yield species; and (c) forestry development of lands outside designatedforests
consisting of small-holder farm forestry, joint forestry on communal lands and group forestry.
O   Special Action Programs: The undertaking of several key programs addressing particular issues. These
were: (a) plant propagation and research to address deficiencies in seed processing and plant propagation as
well as improve adaptive research and silvicultural management; (b) joint forest management, which included
measures for supportirg cooperative government-people partnerships for management and protection of
forests; (c) biodiverity conservation, which would assist the state's nature conservation program, including
the development of an Integrated Protected Areas System; (d) collaborative fodder program to support
adaptive fodder research and development programs; and (e) Tribal Development Plan, which would provide
funds for activities complimentary to the JFM program to ensure development in tribal groups.
*   Service Support: Provision of various support elements to the APFD in relation to the project, including
institutional development, forest inventory, MIS and GIS capability and training.
3.4 Revised Components:
At MTR, carried out in 1997 (3rd year of project implementation) the sub-component involving afforestation of
communal lands was dropped because of difficulties in transferring ownership of such trees to the Panchayat. The
planting of farn forestry trees using purchased seedlings was also phased out after 1998 because of competition
from free seedlings produced as part of a centrally sponsored rural employment scheme. The collaborative fodder
program was dropped at MTR because of failure to make progress in developing inter-agency coordination. The
other sub-components were reorganized into six components as follows:
A.     Regeneration and Rehabilitation by JFM: which included all elements of participatory forest
rehabilitation and management through JFM together with beneficiaries support and special investment
for tribals.
-2 -



B.     Increasing Forest Productivity on Forest Land: through teak plantations; rejuvenation of Red Sanders
stands; reforestation with Ailanthus and other species; reforestation and regeneration of bamboo; and the
establishment of FDC High-Yielding Eucalyptus plantations.
C.     Increasing Forest Production on Private and Communal Lands through the sale of quality seedlings
for farm forestry and the promotion of group farm forestry.
D.     Improving Planting Material Quality and Conducting Research
E.     Biodiversity Conservation, including improved Protected Area management, eco-development with rural
community participation, and research and education programs.
F.     Strengthening Institutional and Forest Sector Management, which includes policy and administrative
reform; training; improving staff amenities; and upgrading forest management facilities and installing a
forest management information system.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The objectives of the project were well conceived, achievable and in line with beneficiary needs.
Project design recognised the need to fundamentally change the attitude and approach of the APFD to forest
protection and management, as well as to restructure the institution to carry out its new functions. It also
recognised the fundamental role that compensatory benefits would play in establishing a cooperative forest
management relationship with previous forest users and how such benefits should be balanced with community
participation in forest rehabilitation and protection through an interactive micro-planning process. The project
design targeted poorer sections of the rural communities, with particular emphasis being placed on involving and
benefiting economically deprived tribal people. Special consideration was also given to including women in the
development activities to enhance both their social and economic status. The appraisal recognised the key role that
forest and conservation policies and legislation play in providing incentives or disincentives for participatory
forestry. It also correctly identified the major technical improvements required to enhance forest productivity.
However, having recognised this need for change and the training and re-orientation required, the design was
over-ambitious with regard to targets for forest management in the initial years of the project. The design could
have included more front-end socio-economic surveys to provide a solid baseline for monitoring and evaluation.
The design should also have been more realistic about the difficulties in transferring community woodlots to
panchayats, which caused the cancellation of Treatment Practices 9 and 10 at MTR. No financial management
specialist was included in the Appraisal Mission as is now required by OP 10.02.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Highly satisfactory. The project has successfully achieved its objectives, not only through the original proposed
activities, but also through additional initiatives agreed at MTR and with various supervision missions. The
project also undertook two evaluations (in 1998 and in 2000) to assess the impact of JFM. These evaluations,
together with field reports provide a sound basis for assessing project impact and achievement.
*   Increasing Forest Productivity and Quality. Through a system of JFM, sponsored by the project, 849,000
ha have been brought under improved management and protection, of which 335,500 ha have been treated to
improve productivity. Teak plantations have been successfully established and there is a 270% increase in
natural regeneration of red sanders with 82% incremental height growth. At the same time substantial areas
of fast growing plantations, using clonal planting material, have been established by both FDC and APFD.
These plantations have a yield potential of an average of 200,000 m3 of wood per year. Further large areas of
private and group farm plantings have also been added to the forest resource base.
-3 -



*   Protection of the Environment. Four new protected areas have been created filling critical gaps in the
existing Protected Area (PA) network. In addition, 11 PAs have been brought under improved management
and protection with the cooperation of surrounding villagers resulting in increases of at least four rare and
endangered fauna species as well as restocking of the flora.
*   Alleviating Rural Poverty. A total of 251,600 households have been included in VSSs, of which
approximately 124,000 families are from scheduled tribes and other weaker sections of the rural communities
adjacent to forests. These groups have benefited materially from the Tribal Development Plan. The average
increase in incomes within VSSs sampled has been Rs 5,600 per annum, compared with estimated tribal
people incomes of between Rs 2,860 and Rs 3,570 in 1994. These increases have occurred through direct
payment for forest improvement activities, but increasingly from the sale of forest products promoted through
the project. The formation and enthusiastic management of women's thrift groups has resulted in greater
financial independence for women.
Achievement Beyond Planned Outputs. It is still too early to fully evaluate the forest production, environmental
and social impacts as full benefits will take some years to be achieved. Nevertheless, the project has made a
substantial impact institutionally, economically, socially and environmentally, beyond the expectations at project
design. Apart from satisfactorily achieving most targets, the project has exceeded expectations in several areas and
also generated additional unplanned for benefits. More than double the area of forest targeted in the SAR has been
brought under management of JFM. The increase in mean annual increment of eucalypt plantations has been
measured at 22 m31ha/year compared to 15 m31halyear predicted in the SAR. Forestry research has gone beyond
its planned activities with work on the cultivation and use of non-timber forest products (NTFP), including
medicinal plants and grafted fruit bearing trees, for planting by rural people.
*   Empowerment of Forest Fringe Dwellers. With the formation of VSSs there has been a sense of
empowerment brought on by mutual interests and cohesion. This has led to additional benefits, such as village
power and water supplies being sought on a communal basis with the assistance of APFD or NGOs. Women
have also discovered that their thrift groups have given them financial independence, particularly from money
lenders.
*   Benefits to Tribals and Rural Poor. The project went beyond assistance to tribals under the Tribal
Development Plan Sub-Component. The project included villages outside Tribal Sub-Plan Areas where at
least 15% of the population were from Scheduled Tribals, thus ensuring other disadvantaged forest fringe
dwellers would also receive benefits. As a result more than twice the MTR target for families benefiting from
the TDP has been achieved. As a result of remuneration for forest improvement and increasing payments from
the sale of forest products, encroachment and the practice of shifting cultivation (podu) that imposed particular
hardships on the women has been reduced by 81% in JFM areas. Migration to urban centres has been reduced
by 70% and general village and family livelihoods have improved within JFM areas Data provided by project
office.. In addition, the soil and moisture conservation measures introduced through the project have already
improved reliability and quantity of well water and have increased the potential for crop irrigation.
*   Environmental Impact. The overall environmental impact of the project has been very positive. In six JFM
sample districts, since 1996, dense forest cover increased by an average of 19% and open forest by as much as
26%. Overall, natural regeneration in JFM areas has increased by as much as 60%, the number of tree species
has increased significantly, and forest fire incidences have been reduced by about 50%. Soil and water
conservation measures have provided noticeable increases in groundwater supplies and decreased erosion.
There has also been a significant and positive impact on forest fauna in both JFM forests and PAs.
4.2 Outputs by components:
*   Regeneration and Rehabilitation through JFM. Initial achievements in JFM were slow in coming. The
whole approach required a considerable change in attitude by the APFD staff who had previously been in
conflict with forest fringe dwellers over illegal encroachment and sale of forest products. Considerable time
- 4 -



was required to create trust between these staff and the forest fringe dwellers and, as a result, targets set for the
first two years were over-ambitious. However, rapid progress was subsequently made and the project exceeded
SAR targets. Micro-plans were developed for management and protection of the individual forest areas under
the VSS, with baseline surveys accompanying these plans. Forest productivity restoration has been undertaken
over 335,500 ha, including areas of clonal eucalypt and bamboo woodlots, with yields that are likely to exceed
what was originally expected in the SAR. At this point the APFD have recognised that it will be important to
review and revise the silvicultural and management prescriptions for natural forests, including the cost
effective use of enrichment planting. The need has also been recognised to link management prescriptions to
potential market demands. Micro-planning options would then take note of these prescriptions. A total of
1560 VSS have benefited under Tribal Development Plans, which have provided for increased agricultural
productivity and additional income generating enterprises. The project supported JFM in 2666 villages but it
was scaled up, replicated and extended to 3550 more villages out of non-project funds.
* Increased Forest Production on Forest Land. An area of 8067 ha, against an SAR target of 7750 ha, of teak
plantations was established, with improved planting material, which should result in higher yields. The
thinning of other teak stands, initially treated with support from the project, are now being funded through a
revolving fund set up with revenues from the thinnings. The Red Sanders regeneration program has been
completed successfully, using assisted natural regeneration as against more costly plantation development.
Initial sampling indicates good regeneration of seedlings of both red sanders and other valuable timber species
as well as appreciable growth in red sanders pole crops. Planting of Ailanthus and other non-teak hardwoods
has covered 13,500 ha (200% of the target). Although the average survival is only 66%, even after the
introduction of soil and water conservation measures, this may be acceptable under the adverse soil and
climatic conditions. About 71,000 ha of forest has been treated to promote bamboo production, against a
target of 69,000 ha. The forests have responded well with, already, significant increases in the number of
culms after treatment.
* High Yielding Clonal Plantations. Establishment of clonal eucalypt plantations on degraded forest land or
clear felled plantations by the Forest Development Corporation (FDC) has been a significant achievement.
Initial seedling procurement difficulties hampered establishment during the first three years and the planting
target was revised downwards at MTR from 17,500 ha to 8,790 ha. By project closing 7,950 ha had been
planted, with the remaining 850 ha scheduled for planting during the next rains. The replacement of polybag
planting stock, that used untested and uncertified seed, with clonal planting material together with updated
plantation establishment and tending practices has led to a dramatic increase in plantation growth rates.
Yields should rise from between 60 to 70 m3/ha to an estimated 150 and 200 m3/ha after seven years.
* Increased Forest Production on Private and Community Lands. Group farm forestry plantings reached
26,930 ha as against a MTR target of 25,000 ha. Casuarina, eucalyptus and leucaena were planted
successfully, particularly by farmers from the weaker rural sections. Govemment guaranteed sale prices have
helped promote interest among farmers. The free distribution of seedlings for farm forestry on private land
was discontinued after 1998, with 6.8 million seedlings having been sold out of 22.4 million raised. The
remainder were planted by APFD or given away free because of competition from free seedlings produced
under a centrally sponsored rural employment scheme.
* Improved Planting Material Quality and Research. Facilities for seed storage, testing and certification
were built by the project at Warangal, after which the AP Govemment provided funds for a further such
facility at Ragamundry. Research on suitable potting mixtures was successfully conducted and this, together
with appropriately designed root trainers, were adopted by 60 nurseries. An important step supporting field
operations was the liaison developed between APFD field officers and research, both in terms of responding to
field requirements as well as disserninating research results. Based on a sound plan for applied research
numerous tasks were undertaken, including research on plant propagation, establishment of clonal propagation
facilities and seed orchards, as well as NTFP and medicinal plants. Experiments took into accounts costs,
benefits and the financial viability of various new technologies. Plans are in hand to involve field officers
further in field research activities and rotate officers from the field through research.
- 5 -



* Biodiversity Conservation. An Integrated Protected Areas System (IPAS) Plan has been prepared, adopted
and its implementation started. Clear ecological criteria for establishment of protected areas (PA) were
identified. Although initial achievements were slow in coming, alternatives to meeting the economic needs of
communities adjacent to the PAs were established through 243 Eco-Development Committees (EDCs) around
11 PAs. As with the VSS, these have been supported by retrained APFD staff, and women have been
specifically targeted for socio-economic development. Several of these communities benefit from revolving
funds and other project initiated micro-credit facilities. A Biodiversity Cell was established and fully staffed,
while in the field Wildlife Divisions have been strengthened by being given territorial status. Research has .
been completed on 13 topics relating to wildlife ecology in 10 PAs. Substantial work has also been undertaken
in reforesting mangrove areas.
* Strengthening Institutional and Forest Sector Management. The Institutional Development Study for
APFD, required as a covenant, was completed. In 1998 a Government Order was issued for reorganizing the
Department, which was subsequently undertaken. A training manual was also prepared, together with
operational guidelines aimed at improving office management procedures and delegation of authority and
work. The AP Forest Act is in the process of being amended to reflect the present needs and approach to
forest management and protection. Timber transit rules, except for teak, have been relaxed and a
comprehensive Govemment Order for implementing JFM was issued. There is still some concern that
requirements of the approved working plans for harvesting may impede the efficient operation of JFM,
particularly when larger scale harvesting of forest products is undertaken. However, timely submission of a
Working Scheme, and revision of the existing working plan for the concerned areas will prevent undue delays
in such harvesting and distribution of benefits to the VSSs.
The project helped in improving governance and transparency by promoting public access to information.
This was achieved through joint accounts and display of the financial information on village community
building boards, involvement of NGO and freedom to evaluate the program. These reforms were not
anticipated at appraisal but were associated with project period, and these offer a good example to other sectors
and states.
Project design recognized the need for a massive training program in light of the altered approach to
forest management and protection. However, actual training was relatively slow to start during the first two
years and this may '-.ave influenced the slow initial acceptance of JFM. By the end of the project, training
targets were exceeded. Of particular note is the training of selected VSS members, including a high
proportion of women.
The project has, in the latter stages, obtained up-to-date GIS hardware and software and established a new
Geomatics Centre. Good use has been made of the GIS, using recent satellite imagery, to develop maps for
forest areas and to monitor, through time series, improvements in forest cover under the project. The project
has also developed an Integrated Computer-based Management Information Centre. However, the system has
only been fully operational in the latter stages of the project. It contains project/program related activities, and
cost as well as output data. Attempts are being made to link the MIS with the GIS. Overall data on project
activities from the field has been substantial. In fact, there may even be a basis for being more selective in
field data reporting. However, monitoring and evaluation data, particularly data required to assess the project
impact has been hindered by the lack of clearly defined key indicators at an early stage. The installation of
computers with passive GIS and MIS capability down to range office level will provide an important
management tool when completed and if used appropriately. Important up-to-date inventory data.for the areas
covered is deficient at many sites. The inventory planned for the early years of the project did not start until
the last year of the project.
Based on project experience it could be useful to develop an appropriate forest management information
system (FMIS). This should incorporate both forest inventory and growth data interfaced with spatial GIS
data. Appropriate use of this system through suitable management models, would help APFD to set up
- 6 -



harvesting control, methods and predict yields and potential revenue.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ERR was re-estimated using updated prices, actual project costs, and the latest information on forest
production and other benefits. The project will increase the supply of timber and non-timber forest products
(NTFP) such as fuelwood, grass, medicinal plants, fiber, fruits etc. The project is also expected to generate a series
of other beneficial effects, which are difficult to quantify such as bio-diversity conservation, which are not
included the analysis. In line with SAR, all project outputs (except for timber) are treated as non-tradebles and
have been converted to economic value through use of an SCF of 0.9. The re-estimated ERR was 22%, as
compared with 20% in the SAR. Although 6 out the 7 treatment practices adopted have substantially higher
returns than those in SAR, a few treatment practices envisaged at SAR with unrealistically high retums were
dropped during implementation. As a result, re-estimated ERR is only slightly higher than in SAR. For details
please refer to Annex 7 (Appendix B).
In addition, two variants of ERR were estimated. The ERR was estimated including benefits of carbon
sequestration, and fuelwood valued at parity price based on the cost of imported kerosene. The results, in
comparison with base scenario, are listed below.
Base Scenario                With carbon sequestration benefits        With fuelwood parity price
22%                            29%                                     26%
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial attractiveness of the various treatment practices has been evaluated using one-hectare
activity models. All the treatment practices implemented by the project show rates of return on capital employed
(ROCE) in excess of 15%. The results are generally in line with the SAR estimates except for TP6a and TP 6b,
which had higher rates of return as NTFP income was greater than projected in the SAR.
To estimate the poverty reduction impact of the JFM component, cash flow analysis for a typical
farm-family with one ha. forest was formulated. The analysis shows that the average annual incremental income
for one family is Rs.5400. This estimate is in line with the findings of the sample survey, commissioned by the
project office and conducted in 1999, which found the increase in income was about Rs 5,600. These increases
occurred through direct payment for forest improvement activities, and from increasing sale of forest products
promoted through the project.
The JFM component includes sharing of costs and benefits between Govemment and the beneficiaries.
Specifically, it stipulates that the Government pays for main material inputs and labour costs up to the plantation
stage, while the villagers contribute all labour inputs after plantation. All benefits would accrue to the rural people
including the final harvest of timber with 50% revenue being set aside for re-investment in the forestry
regeneration works. In order to assess the impact of these arrangements, separate cash flows were calculated for the
Government and farmers. The cash flow models show that the government would be able to recoup the investment
(FIRR 10%) while farmers would increase their annual income by Rs. 5,400 per family.
4.5 Institutional development impact.
The new approach to forest management and protection, using forest fringe dwellers as partners, has led
to significant improvements in the forest production as well as environmental protection. Through training and
reorientation the APFD has become more effective in its role of supporting forest management and protection.
- 7 -



Good working links have been established with numerous NGOs and other government agencies as part of the JFM
program. The district forest coordinating committees have assisted in this regard. In many of the fringe forest
village areas APFD has become a lead agency in rural development because of its successful rapport with villagers.
However, its mandate and workload should not expand beyond defined forest related activities unless these support
forest management. With this in mind further cross-sectoral linkages with other government agencies should be
developed, and partnerships strengthened with NGOs and the private sector to share the rural development load.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Bank performance, through regular supervision by good technical personnel, had a major positive effect
on the project. Strong technical supervision has particularly importance in the fields of improved planting
materials, research and introduction of new approaches to participatory forest management. Procurement
difficulties associated with finding qualified bidders for the supply of clonal planting materials to FDC seriously
hindered early planting of eucalypt plantations. The issue was resolved when FDC produced its own clonal
materials.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Strong support by the highest levels of the AP Government was a critical factor for project success. Lack
of timely budget support affected early implementation but this was solved through Govemment intervention.
Strong political support also helped to foster collaboration with agencies associated with tribal and rural
development. However, Inter-agency difficulties at an early stage of the project led to the deletion of the
collaborative fodder program, an important element in forest management. The persistence of a central
government controlled rural employment scheme in providing free seedlings largely undermined sales of seedlings
for the farm forestry sub-component.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The existence, prior to the project, of a well staffed and trained forestry agency with functioning
infrastructure and well-defined management structures and reporting links, provided a good framework for
establishing the participatory approach to forest management. Strong commitment from within APFD, together
with the initiatives shown by the Department in overcoming constraints or adapting their work methods has been
key to project success and has enabled most earlier delayed targets to be met or, in some cases exceeded. The good
linkages developed between APFD and NGOs also assisted in implementing a cost efficient approach to successful
JFM.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal total project costs were estimated at US$89.1 million, including physical and price
contingencies, as well as an allowance of depreciation of the Rupee against the US$. Actual costs are estimated at
US$91.0 million. The GOAP counterpart fund contribution was slightly increased from US$11.6 at appraisal to
$13.7 equivalent. Disbursement lagged behind schedule during the first two years due to an overambitious
implementation schedule during this period coupled with procurement difficulties. However, the IDA Credit of
SDR 55.34 million (equivalent to US$ 75.89 million) had been disbursed against expenditures incurred up to the
Closing Date.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely. The institutional transformation within APFD and the willingness and ability to
adapt to the participatory approach to forest management and protection, with support from an established training
-8 -



cell, suggests that project gains will be maintained and enhanced. Commitment and appreciation of the project's
objective at the top political level of the state government make continued support for the JFM approach likely. The
benefit sharing arrangements involving 100 percent of final revenue going to VSS of which 50% earmarked for
regeneration and replantation of harvested forest areas would serve as a revolving fund with the communities
would help in achieving financial sustainability.
VSS beneficiaries have strong incentives to continue project activities and this will ensure sustainability,
with potential enhanced environmental benefits as forest cover continues to increase and encroachment and fires
are curtailed. Although the social, economic and environmental benefits of the JFM and TDP have already been
significant and should continue to increase as productive forest management activities yield expected benefits,
several factors will need to remain in place for this to happen. Maintaining strong financial incentives to the
communities involved will be critical for sustainability. To this end market access, fair market prices and market
information will be important. Moreover, forest and woodlot management should aim at obtaining optimal
benefits. The equitable sharing of benefits within the VSS is also critical, but care will also have to be taken that
other forest fringe dwellers who previously benefited from the forest, either primarily or secondarily, are also
included in the benefit sharing. Mechanisms for this to happen have already been investigated under the project.
However, close monitoring coupled with an effective mechanism for conflict resolution is essential. This latter
should include consciousness raising regarding potential conflicts during the Micro Planning process and
mechanisms to mitigate the conflicts; preferably through a formal system of adjudication and appeal.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Many of the project activities have been integrated into the regular operations of the APFD. Sufficient
funds are present in the current fiscal year budget for APFD to cover the Rs 60 million required to maintain project
activities over the next year. This will be a critical period, as many recently launched VSSs are not financially
self-sufficient, requiring one to three more years of continued support. Research achievements under the project
will also need to be maintained and monitored and training will need to continue. APFD has already investigated
the potential for alternative sources of funding for training and VSS support with some success. In addition the
Department has been permitted by the state government to establish revolving funds for research support, and
forest management may also benefit to some extent here.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank Preparation and Appraisal. Satisfactory. Project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory.
However, given the social and economic complexities of a participatory forest management project, further
front-end socio-economic investigations would have given a clearer base-line picture and possibly enabled better
directed early approaches to the communities involved. Nevertheless, the project design correctly identified the
need for institutional change, both structurally and mentally, as well as for training and forest management
information. The participatory Micro-Planning process and the inclusion of ancillary investments to economically
support tribal and other weaker sections of the forest fringe dwellers were key elements in the successful uptake of
JFM. Proposals for improved growing stock for plantations were innovative, and through solid Bank technical
supervision, they succeeded in making impressive gains in wood and NTFP production. The risks to the project
were adequately identified and mitigation proposals were realistic. Development impact indicators were provided
at appraisal, though no targets were set for outputs. Lessons leamt from previous forestry projects in India were
applied to the design, including the need to address institutional weaknesses, actively involve forestry research, the
need for improved seed, effective extension services and inter-agency coordination.
Compliance with Bank Policies and Procedures. Satisfactory. The preparation included intensive
investigations into tribal development issues and the effect of the project on these people. In accordance with OD
4.20 on indigenous peoples, a Tribal Development Plan was prepared as part of appraisal, based on a
-9-



socio-economic survey undertaken during preparation. The plan objectives were agricultural development and
eco-development activities, which, together with JFM activities would improve the livelihoods of the selected
tribals. During implementation project benefits were extended to non-tribal weaker sections of the rural
communities and it reached considerably more tribals than planned, with clearly identifiable benefits. No
resettlement was undertaken. No financial analyst or financial management specialist participated in the appraisal
mission. The project's financial management requirements including cost tables were addressed by an economist
and a program assistant.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervision was timely, included good skills mix and continuity of staff and
consultant. Supervision team recognised project constraints and issues and dealt with them effectively. Although
no financial analyst or financial management specialist was included on supervision mission until February 1997,
the MTR and subsequent major supervision missions included a financial management specialist. Missions
interacted well with APFD and collaborated closely on changes to project design and inputs. The MTR was timely
and made sensible decisions on discontinuing three sub-components, while adjusting targets for other components.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory, consistent with the above-mentioned ratings.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The borrower worked in close collaboration with the preparation team. Its foresight in
recognising the need to adopt a different approach to forest protection and management by working with the forest
fringe dwellers is to be complimented, particularly as senior staff recognised the difficulties in re-orienting many
junior staff and the need for substantial retraining.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. After some early difficulties with counterpart funds, the state govemment has shown
exceptional support for tne project at the highest political and administrative levels. The necessary policy and
regulatory amendments were made on a timely basis, adequate counterpart funds were provided, and funds for
post-project maintenance appear to be assured.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. APFD project related staff have proved to be highly motivated and shown considerable
initiative in adopting an innovative approach to forest management and protection. Their approach to the forest
fringe communities has generally been adaptive and positive, with the result that the area covered by JFM
considerably exceeded design expectations. The innovative approaches shown by FDC in plantation silviculture
should also produce exceptional benefits. There were early problems with frequent staff transfers but this situation
was soon rectified. However, the Department has also been slow to undertake the required forest inventory and it
was late in fully establishing a fully operational MIS, though mainly due to difficulties with consultants.
The borrower/implementing agency complied with all legal covenants. The procurement and
disbursement procedures were learned and followed. The accounting and audit requirements were met with. The
reimbursement claims have been prepared and sent to the Bank quite regularly and the audit reports have also met
the time lines in most years. There is no history of SOE suspensions for the project. There have, however, been
audit disallowances in most years. The audit disallowances have related largely to admissablity issues of routine
nature and the audit reports have not brought out any significant accounting or system issues. The project has,
however, been quite persistently following these up with the CAG's office and disallowances have been
- 10-



subsequently dropped and claims earlier disallowed admitted for reimbursement. The Bank in its successive
missions has pointed out the need for more proactivity from the Project in meeting the audit requirements at the
point of audit itself.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory, consistent with the above ratings.
8. Lessons Learned
Community participation is key to forest protection and management. The involvement of forest
fringe dwellers through a participatory planning process, which considers their needs and aspirations and agrees
on their rights and responsibilities, is essential for effective management and protection of the forests. The
following were key elements in the success of JFM in AP:
*   Adequate benefits and the equitable sharing of these benefits.
*   Implementation through smaller homogenous groups which are more successful, particularly as regards the
equitable sharing of benefits. The tribal groups which are more homogeneous than other communities
generally performed better.
*   The participatory approach adopted by APFD, often in collaboration with NGOs, which focussed on
developing Micro-Plans, proved to be highly effective in achieving a workable JFM partnership which brought
significant benefits to both the forests and the participants. An important aspect of the partnership was the
building of trust, which required significant lead time.
*   A clearly defined and agreed strategy for each VSS to attain financial self-sufficiency is required so as to
sustain JFM beyond the project life.
*   In order to avoid conflicts it is essential to consider and plan for the needs of poor forest dependent not
included in the VSS at the time of Micro-Planning exercise. All efforts should be made to ensure that these
people gain or at least do not lose.
Women are major beneficiaries of JFM. Women form an important part of the paid forest work force
and played a key role in VSS decision making. The women's thrift groups formed through the project have
provided unprecedented financial independence. Financial independence, as well as a reduced work load has
improved women's role within the family, thrift groups are also providing a base for further women's development
by providing a platform for self-help projects and money-making enterprises.
Joint Forest Management has the potential for poverty alleviation. The project has shown that JFM
can provide increased income to poor forest fringe dwellers, particularly tribal minorities, through direct payments
for forestry work, sustainable income from usufructuary rights to enhanced production of forest products, and
improved agricultural production resulting from improved ground water regimes. The empowerment generated
through the VSS has also provided additional material benefits.
Government institutional and political support is crucial for continuing success of participatory
forest management. The political support at the highest level has translated into support from both institutions
and politicians at the local level. This, in turn, has facilitated all aspects of project implementation and in
particular the effective implementation of JFM. Transparency as to the aims and modalities of JFM have been
counted in building up trust and confidence. The NGO community has also played an effective and active role as
trained facilitators for JFM, working jointly with APFD field staff.
Improved planting material and technology has improved yields and incomes. The introduction of
- 11 -



certified seed and clonal planting material, together with the use of root trainers and appropriate potting mix,
increased yields and incomes. Similarly, grafted stock for NTFP has accelerated production and increased yields.
The extended use of such planting materials will further add to JFM sustainability and enhance poverty alleviation
among both forest fringe dwellers and small to marginal farmers. Improved technology, such as soil and moisture
conservation measure, have also raised forest yields and incomes.
Improved linkages between researchers and forestry field operations yield significant results. Close
links between forestry research and field staff, both in terms of responding to field requirements as well as
disseminating results has been a key element in developing and disseminating new technologies.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Final Comments of the State Government
Andhra Pradesh has 23 % of the Geographical area under Forests. The forests in the state were subjected
to enormous pressure to meet the sustenance needs of the local people and conflict between the local villagers and
department was prevalent. This accompanied with very low financial input was resulting in unabated degradation
of the forest resources in the state. Since the pressure from the local people was one of the major factors, it was
resolved to involve communities in the protection of forests. This change in policy of the Govemment was put into
practice with the launching of the World Bank aided AP forestry Project.
AP Forestry Project heralded a new era of forestry management in the State. The project objectives were
very much in tune with the recent policies of the Govemment. Besides, the involvement of communities, there was
stress on research, information system and institutional development. The set objective of the project was
instrumental in bringing about a total change in the forestry sector scenario in the state.
Achievements
The implementation of project established that community participation is one of the major forest
management practices in time to come. The physical achievements in most of the components has been more that
the targeted result. One of the most important achievements of the project has been establishing forestry as one of
the tools for poverty alleviation. The attitudinal change in the staff of the forest department has been brought about
in most systematic manner. Even though there was initial scepticism about the concept of the JFM, continuous
training, interaction with various visiting mission members have been instrumental in bringing about this positive
change. The achievements under the project has been widely appreciated throughout the country and has attracted
senior officers from the other states and even from neighbouring countries to study the implementation of the JFM
programme. World Development report 2000-01 makes a special mention of the gains of JFM in AP.
One of the achievements has been the development of monitoring system for quantifying the gains of the
JFM. A mechanism has been put into place which could be tested in different conditions and can be refined. The
gains of research activities particularly the transfer from lab to land has given a tremendous boost to increase in
productivity.
Design. The project was designed well to achieve the desired objectives. However, the Social Forestry
component could not be designed suitably and the gains under Social Forestry component has been comparatively
less and some of the components have to be dropped during the mid term review. Similarly the fodder component
could not take off due to problem in its implementation design.
Implementation. Since the project was not preceded by project preparation phase, there was initial
inertia in the implementation of the project. However, subsequently the implementation has been very smooth.
Some change in some of the project components at mid term review has been of great help in facilitating the
- 12-



smooth implementation of the project. In fact the very close coordination of the visiting mission members with the
forest department staff has helped a lot in understanding the objective of the project and thereby improving the
implementation of the project. The involvement of the NGO's in the JFM programme has been immensely helpful
in its implementation.
Institutional Development. The policy and institutional reforms carried out in many fields has helped
department in discharge of its function more effectively. Some of the most important ones are counselling system
for transfer of staff, development of training manual for staff at allI levels in the department, continuance of staff in
the specialised post for long tenures. These changes have helped improve the efficiency of the department to a
great extent.
Sustainability. Sustainability was not an issue at the start of the project implementation. However, the
success ensured in JFM programme during the first phase has resulted in some of the JFM committees getting
enough fund to sustain their activities without getting the financial support from the Govemment.
The Project has established an excellent working relationship of Government with the people for
management and protection of Forests. It has resulted in bringing about awareness among the people to protect and
preserve the forests as the tangible benefits have started accruing to the villagers. The attitudinal change in the
Forest Department staff from the earlier custodian and policing approach to one of working in association with
people is one of the major factors for sustaining the achievement made under the programme.
The State Government has also taken certain enabling policy initiatives, which are likely to consolidate
the achievement under the project. The most important aspect is commitment of the State Govemment at the
highest level for development of Forestry sector as one of the means for poverty alleviation. The increase in the
productivity of the forests and the likely hood of getting sustained income from the forestry products has evinced
keen interest in the management of forests among local people. This has resulted in removing the feeling, among
the local people, of being alienated from the forestry affairs.
Pronouncement of policy decision for benefit sharing between the VSS and Govemment in very clear
terms has helped a lot in getting the much desired support of local people for the Joint Forest Management
Programme. The local people have started realizing that the improved forestry practices are one of the key
elements to augment their income and also make the environment better. The introduction of high yielding
varieties of NTFP, Eucalyptus clones and medicinal plants in VSS area has potential to provide quick return to the
villagers on a sustainable basis and this acts as one of the incentives for the villagers to participate actively in the
programme. Since the project has targeted the women and other deprived section of the society and has helped in
improving their socio-economic status, the support from this important target group of the society is quite
encouraging and their fostered belief in the programme is likely to continue.
However, the forestry practices cannot ensure high level of economic returns during short period and
hence continued support to the project activities is required to be maintained for some more time to consolidate the
gains of the project to such as extent that the programme becomes self-sustainable. Already 306 VSS have reached
a stage of self-sustenance. Thus continuance of the project activities for another 5 to 6 year would be very essential
to make the programme sustainable.
Phase-II
The process for finalisation of phase-Il is required to be expedited to ensure that the gains of the phase-I
project are consolidated. Even though the achievements under phase-I have been impressive, there is an urgent
need for a phase-l1 of the project as forestry has long gestation. The main focus in the phase-lI of the project would
be towards the sustainability of the committees besides consolidating the gains of the first phase. The time lag in
the launch of the phase-Il is a matter of concern.
- 13 -



Lessons learned
Implementation of the project has been one of the process of learning. It has given plenty of lessons to be
followed for improving the forestry sector management. Major Lessons learned are summarized below;
*   Forestry programme contribute significantly to poverty alleviation.
*   The People's participation has proved essential and effective in protection and development of degraded
forests.
*   Building up of relationship of trust between people and department helps the implementation of project.
*   Preparation of a good microplan helps in effective implementation of JFM programme.
*   Organization of people in a group like Vana Samrakshana Samithies (VSS) helps in better access to the
delivery of other benefits like health, education etc.
*   Adequate preparedness in terms of policy, institutional and technological aspects should be ensured before the
start of actual implementation of the project.
*   A well defined Project Co-ordinating and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) with clear-cut responsibilities should be
established in head office.
X   Period of 5-6 years is not adequate to make the Forestry Project sustainable, as forestry is a long gestation
activity.
*   Trainings / Study tours and exposure visits have been found to be one of the most effective tool for capacity
building and improving the community skills of not only the forest department staff but also the VSS
members.
*   Combined training of VSS members and department staff has established better relationship and trust, which
improves the implementation of project.
*   Integration of village development with forestry development helps in effective protection and development of
forests.
*   Association of Non-Govemmental Organizations improves functioning of VSS and Eco development
committees (EDCs).
*   Sustainability of the VSS and EDC should be pursued as one of the developmental objectives of the project.
*   JFM programme is more successful in homogeneous groups. More interaction and input increases the chances
of success in heterogeneous groups.
*   Empowerment of women is found crucial for the success of the programme.
*   Alternative energy sources such as biogas, and smokeless chullahas are found quite effective in saving time
and reducing the consumption of fuel and there by lessening pressure on the forests.
*   Biodiversity conservation should cover forest areas outside Protected Areas also.
*   Corridor management should be integral part of the biodiversity conservation component.
- 14-



*   Capacity of the beneficiaries should be developed before distribution of assets to ensure proper and effective
utilization of assets.
*   Land-based activities like in TDP have given better results.
*   Forest Protection issues should be given adequate emphasis in the project.
*   Improved planting stock is one of the requisites for improving productivity of forests
*   Value addition and marketing of NTFP is necessary for the sustainability of JFM.
*   Clonal testing of the important species should be continued and clone base should be widened.
*   Transfer of technology from lab to land should be given more thrust to improve the productivity of the forests.
*   Besides the improved planting stock, site preparation is equally important for achieving higher productivity.
*   Joint Account System established to incur expenditure under JFM programme helps in increased transparency
in financial transactions and improves the delivery system.
*   Clear policy on benefit sharing of usufruct encourages participation of local people in the forest management.
*   Development of GIS & MIS capabilities helps in planning and monitoring in an effective manner.
*   Capacity building, awareness and education among the VSS members and front line staff has contributed to
the planning process.
*   The tedious and time-consuming procurement process affects implementation of the project. Therefore
procurement should start from the first year of implementation itself.
*   A well-equipped publicity cell is a must failing which the programmes and achievements of the department are
not highlighted effectively.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcomelimpact Indicators
Appraisal                .         ActuallLatest
Indicator                                               Estimate                              Estimate
Forest Production Impact
JFM forest area treated (ha)                                 173,100            238,000            335,510
Increase in dense forest in JFM area (%)                         NA                 NA                  19
Area of teak plantations established (ha)                      7,750              8,600              8,067
Percent increase in red sanders regen                            NA                 NA                 270
Area of natural bamboo regenerated (ha)                       59,100             69,100             70,536
Average increase in culms per clump of bamboo                     NA                 NA                  6
Area of clonal plantations by FOC (ha)                        17,500              8,800              7,950
No of improved seed, clonal/graft seedlings (millions)            NA                  6                6.2
Nurseries with improved planting material capability              NA                NA                  60
No of NTFP species for which clones developed                    NA                 NA                  11
Poverty Alleviation & Social Impact
No of paid workdays created directly through JFM                  NA                NA            39,900.00
Increase in income in VSSs (Rs/annum)                            NA                 NA               5,638
Thrift savings (Rs million)                                       NA                 NA               12.9
Reduction in migration from village (%)                          NA                 NA                  70
Number of families benefiting from TDP                            NA             60,000            124,050
Decrease in use of fuelwood in JFM areas (%)                      NA                NA                  38
Environmental Impact
No of rare and endangered fauna species targeted                  NA                NA                    4
Increase in Great Indian Bustard population (%)                   NA                NA      400 (25 TO 100)
Increase in tiger population (%)                                 NA                 NA         50 (34 TO 51)
Increase in Jerdon's Cursor population (%)                       NA                 NA        1000 (3 TO 30)
No of PA management plans completed                               NA                 10                 24
Total area under protection (PA) (ha)                             NA             60,000            101,566
Institutional and Policy Impact
Percentage of Range Officers Trained                              NA                100              1.0
Percentage of Section Officers Trained                            NA                100               96.0
Number of NGO Participants Trained                                NA                 NA              1,084
Number of VSSs with NGO support                                  NA                 800              1,302
- 16-



Ouput Indicators
Indicators                                             Appraisal     MTR Estmate  ActuaULatest Estimate
Estimate
Regeneration & Rehabilitation by JFM
Number of VSSs formed                                       1 600            1,665             2,666
Number of VSS households                                  150,000          150,000           251,872
Number of microplans completed                              2,010            1,660             2,666
JFM area demarcated (ha)                                  354.600          480,000           849,080
Decrease in forest encroachment in JFM areas (%)               NA               NA                 81
Decrease in illegal fellings in JFM areas (%)                  NA               NA                 74
Increase in number of trees in 15-25 cm girth cl. (%)          NA               NA                 39
Increase in number of trees in 25-40 cm girth cl. (%)          NA               NA                 31
Increase in seedling regeneration in JFM areas (%)             NA               NA                 50
Reduction in forest grazing (%)                                NA               NA                 57
Increase in open forest in JFM area (%)                       NA               NA                 19
Percentage women in managt committees                         NA                30                34
Percentage of VSS Chairpersons as women                       NA               NA                  4
Number of women's thrift groups formed                        NA               NA               1.699
Reduction in forest fires (%)                                 NA               NA                 72
Increasing Forest Productivity on Forest Land
Area of teak plantations thinned (ha)                       15,000           9,750              9,750
Area of red sanders regenerated (ha)                        5,000            5,000             4,800
Area non-teak hardwoods & NTFP reforested (ha)               1,800           6,750             13,535
Increase Forest Product. On Private & Communal Lands
Area planted under group farm forestry (ha)                34,000           25.000            26,807
Number of farm forestry seedlings sold (millions)              48              NA                 6.8
Number of individuals & institutions purchased seedlings      NA               NA              6,580
Improve Planting Material & Conduct Research
Developing teak seed production areas (ha)                     NA            1,300                632
No of improved seedling raised with culling (millions)        NA                 3               17.0
No of seedlings raised in root trainers (millions)            NA                 6                9.7
Clonal multiplication areas (ha)                              NA               NA                61.0
Clonal seed orchards established (ha)                          NA              NA                94.2
Demonstration plots of high yielding clones (No)              NA               NA               1,300
Candidate plus trees identified                               NA               NA               1,634
Conservation of Biodiversity
No of EDCs formed                                             NA               200               243
No of micro plans developed -                                 NA               200               243
No of MOUs signed with EDCs                                    NA               NA                243
Integrated Protected Area Strategy                      Completed        Completed          Completed
Creation of Biodiversity Cell                                Done            Done               Done
No of environment research topics completed                   NA                12                 13
Strengthen Institutional & Forest Sector Mgmt.
Institutional Development Study                         Completed        Completed          Completed
Revolving funds established                                    NA                2                  1
Forest products transit regs liberalised                    Done             Done               Done
Govt Order on JFM                                           Done             Done               Done
Percentage of funds released on time                          100              100                100
Completion of new training facilities                       Done             Done               Done
Partnerships with NGOs formalised (No contracts/MOUs)         NA               NA               1,080
Circle and division offices with GIS                          NA               NA                 60
No of districts mapped using GIS                               NA               NA                 23
No of FD officers trained in and using MIS                    NA             1,500               522
Average Training Days per Range Officer                        NA              NA                 5.5
Average Training Days per Section Officer                      NA              NA                 3.5
Average Training Days per NGO Person                           NA              NA                 2.0
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (US$ million Equivalent)
Project component                                      Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
Regenerate and Rehabilitation by JFM                      38.9           40.5            104%
Increase Forest Production on Forest Lands               19.8            16.9            86%
Increase Forest Production on Pvt. & Community Lands      2.9             3.3            110%
Improve Planting Material Quality & Conduct Research      4.8             7.7            162%
Conduct Biodiversity                                      7.3             6.5             89%
Srengthen Institutional & Forest Sector Mangement         15.4           16.1            104%
Total Project Costs                                       89.1           91.0            102%
Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal and Actual Estimates)
Procurement Method              Procurement Method
___ __ __ _   Appraisal Estimate         Actual Estimate
Expenditure Account                     ICB    NCB    Others   Total   ICB   NCB  Others  Total
Plantation Works                                   4.4     49.0    53.4             -    49.6    49.6
Civil Works
Buildings                                 -       4.2       1.9    6.1
Other works                               -        -       6.9    6.9       -    0.8   15.6    16.4
Construction material for force Account.   -        -        1.9     1.9
Goods                                     1.2      7.2       2.0   10.4    2.7   0.7    7.3    10.7
Vehicles                                  0.7       -        0.3     1.0
Consultancy and Training
Overseas consultancy                      -        -       0.7    0.7      -      -      0.3      0.3
Local consultancy                         -        -       0.9    0.9      -      -      0.4     0.4
Trainings, seminars and Workshops         -        -       4.1    4.1      -      -      3.6     3.6
Miscellaneous                              -        -                        -      -      6.9     6.9
7.1 Incremental recurrent costs                              3.7    3.7
7.2 IOC Salaries(not reimbursable)         -        -        -        -      -      -      3.2     3.2
Total                                     1.9    15.8       71.4   89.1    2.7   1.4   86.9    91.0
- 18-



Cost Benefit Analysis
(Indicate Currency, units and base year)
Constant November 2000 Values              Economic Analysis at Economic Analysis at
Constant_____November ____2000___Values__       Appraisal             ICR
ERR (Base)                                         20%                 22%
NPV (Rs. Million, base year 2000)                  N.A.               4,015
ERR (With Carbon Sequestration Benefits)           N.A.                29%
NPV (Rs. Million, base year 2000)                  N.A.               6,892
ERR ( With Fuelwood at Parity Price)               N.A.                26%
NPV (Rs. Million, base year 2000)                  N.A.               4,823
Treatment Practices                         Financial Analysis at Financial Analysis at
Appraisal (IRR)       ICR (IRR)
Rehabilitation of degraded forestry(TP1)           29%                 20%
Reforestation with teak(TP5a)                      15%                 13%
Non-teak hardwood plantation(TP6a)                 21%                 12%
Reforestation with Ailanthus(TP6b)                 28%                 12%
Rejuvenation of bamboo (TP7)                       39%                 34%
High yield production (TP8)                        16%                 22%
Group farm forestry(TP1 1)                         17%                 14%
- 19 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost Benefit Analysis
(Indicate Currency, units and base year)
Economic Analysis at  Economic Analysis
Appraisal             at ICR
ERR(Base)                                          20%                  22%
NPV(Rs. Million, base year 2000)                   N.A.                4,015
ERR( With Carban Sequestration Benefits)           N.A.                 29%
NPV(Rs. Million, base year 2000)                   N.A.                6,892
ERR( With Fuelwood at Parity Price)                N.A.                 26%
NPV(Rs. Million, base year 2000)                   N.A.                4,823
Treatment Practices                        Financial Analysis at  Financial Analysis at
Appraisal (IRR)        ICR (IRR)
Rehabilitation of degraded forestry(TP1)           29%                  20%
Reforestation with teak(TP5a)                      15%                  13%
Non-teak hardwood plantation(TP6a)                 21%                  12%
Reforestation with Ailanthus(TP6b)                 28%                  12%
Rejuvenation of bamboo (TP7)                       39%                  34%
High yield production (TP8)                        16%                  22%
.Group farm forestry(TPI1)              _          17%                  14%
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Implementation        Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                            Progress            Objective
Identification/Preparation
January 1992/                    10    Task Leader (1); Economist (2);
April 1992 - February                  Program Assistant - COSTAB
1993                                   (1); Env. Specialist (1);
Forestry Specialist (2); Forest
Technology Specialist (1);
Sociologist (2);
AppraisallNegotiation
April 1993/November               9    Task Leader (1); Economist
1993                                   (1); Env. Specialist (1);
Forestry Specialist (2);
Forest Technology
Specialist (1); Sociologist
(2); Procurement Specialist
(I)
Supervision
June 1995                         3   Forestry Specialist (2);                  S                   S
Forest Technology Specialist
(1)
July 1995                         3   Forestry Specialist (2); Forest           S                   S
Technology Specialist (1)
October 1995                      7   Sociologist (1); forestry                 S                   S
Specialist (2); Economist (1);
Procurement Specialist (1);
Forest Technology Specialist (1);
IT Specialist (1)
May 1996                          4   Forestry Specialist (1);                  S                   S
Sociologist (2); Natural
Resources Economist
February 1997                     9   Natural Resources Economist               S                   S
(1); Progran Assistant-
COSTAB (1); Economist (1);
Forest Technology Specialist (1);
Procurement Specialist (1);
Environmental Specialist (1);
Disbursement Specialist (I);
Sociologist (1); Forestry
Specialist (I)
June 1997                         2   Forestry Specialist (1);                  S                   S
Sociologist (1)
- 21 -



December 1997                      5   Forestry Specialist (I); Social           S                    S
Forester (1); Forest Technology
Specialist (1); IT Specialist (1);
Community Participation
Specialist (1)
June 1998                          3   Forestry Specialist (1); Social           S                   HS
Forester (1); Silviculturist (1)
December 1998                      7  Forestry Specialist (1); Social            S                    S
Forester (1); Sociologist (1);
Forest Technologist Specialist
(1); FM Specialist (1); IT
Specialist (1); Silviculturist (1)
June 1999                          2   Forestry Specialist (1); Natural          S                    S
Resources Management
Specialist (1)
November 1999                      8   Forestry Specialist (2); Natural          S                   HS
Resources Mgmt. Specialist (I);
Sociologist (I); Forest
Technology Specialist (1); Env.
Specialist (1); FM Specialist (1);
Social Forester (1)
June 2000                          2   Forestry Specialist (I); Social           S                    S
Forester (1)
ICR
November 2000                     2    Bank Team: Forestry                      HS                   HS
Specialist (2)
FAO-CP Team: Forestry
Specialist (1); Economist (1)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
|___ __ _   No. Staff weeks             US$ (,0O0)
Identification/Preparation                     143                           348.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                           76                           197.4
Supervision                                    136                           351.7
ICR                                              5                               6
Total                                          360                           903.9
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
[7] Macro policies                         O H  O SU OM  O -N  * NA
El Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
O Physical                                 OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Ol Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                 * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
LI Gender                           OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Other (Please specij)             * H  O SU O M   O N  O NA
(Tribai)
LO Private sector development              0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                   0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
L Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
31 Supervision                                      OHS OS  Ou  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS   O U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS  O  U  0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS   0  U  O HU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Appendix A: Aide Memoire
2. Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
3. Additional Notes on Joint Forest Management
- 25 -



