CREDIT NUMBER 2573 IN
Project Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
Dated       MA/CH                   ,1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2573 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      M A(I C               , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF
ANDHRA PRADESH, acting by its Governor (Andhra Pradesh).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
November 27, 1993 from Andhra Pradesh attaching sector reforms that
constitute the framework for improving forest development in Andhra
Pradesh including policy, institutional and technical reforms
(hereinafter called the Forestry Sector Reform Program), and
declaring Andhra Pradesh's commitment to carry out such Forestry
Section Reform Program;
(B)   by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to fifty-five million six hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,600,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Andhra Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, and in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Andhra Pradesh, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh declares its commitment to
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the


﻿- 2 -
Project through FD, with the assistance of: (i) FDC for Part
A.2.(ii) (b); and (ii) DSW for Part B.5; all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, and forestry practices, and shall provide, or cause tc be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Andhra Pradesh
shall otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)   Andhra Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Andhra Pradesh of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of Andhra Pradesh
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 3-
(b)   Andhra Pradesh shall:
(i)   have its records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors    acceptable    to   the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Andhra Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the  date   on  which  the  Development   Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Andhra
Pradesh of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Andhra Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Secretariat, Saifabad
Hyderabad 500022
Andhra Pradesh, India


﻿-5-
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Hyderabad
Andhra Pradesh, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh may be taken or executed by
its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Andhra
Pradesh shall designate in writing, and Andhra Pradesh shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                     /5/    . 7DSCPH    ioo6
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
By                  /5/   N.   JALLU41
Authorized Representative


﻿- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency com-
ponents and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part, Andhra Pradesh shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purpose of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, Andhra Pradesh shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs I through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿-7-
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, civil works under
the Project, and plantation works under Part A.2 (ii) (b), may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,  in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$8,800,000, and other plantation works under the Project, may be
carried out by force account in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
3.    (i) Domesticated clonal seedlings for Part A.2 (ii) (b)
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $3,700,000, and (ii) items or group of items estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding $3,500,000, may be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    (i) Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent
of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,400,000, (ii) construction materials estimated to
cost not more than $1,900,000, and (iii) vehicles estimated to cost
less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.    Specialized items comprising satellite imagery and aerial
photographs, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$150,000, and books and periodicals estimated to cost the equivalent
of not more than $400,000, may be purchased directly in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to (i) each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more; (ii) all soil preparation contracts


﻿-8-
under Part A.2 (ii)(b); and (iii) the first five goods and first
five works contracts, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist in carrying out the Project, Andhra Pradesh
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provision of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than


﻿$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts, nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignment of critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association, and to amendments to
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or more.
3.    For complex, time based assignments, Andhra Pradesh shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed with the Association. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, Andhra Pradesh shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Association.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    Andhra Pradesh shall ensure that seedlings used for the
Project shall be suitably culled in the existing nurseries in the
project area.
2.    (a)   To assist in the design of the research program and in
plant propagation under Part B.1 of the Project, Andhra Pradesh
shall appoint consultants not later than June 30, 1994, in
accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Association, and
with the procedure referred to in Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
(b)   Andhra Pradesh shall discuss with the Association, not
later than October 31, 1994, the resulting programs under (a) above,
including the implementation timetable, and shall, taking into
account the Association's comments, promptly thereafter implement
such programs.
3.    Andhra Pradesh shall complete, in consultation with the
Association, not later than September 30, 1994, the study for the
development of the integrated protected areas network under Part B.3
of the Project.
4.    Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the Tribal Development Plan
agreed with the Association under Part B.5 of the Project, in a
manner and timetable satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Andhra Pradesh shall, not later than March 31, 1995, complete
and discuss with the Association the institutional development study
under Part C.2 (i) of the Project, and shall thereafter implement
the results of such study in accordance with a time-bound action
plan agreed with the Association.
6.    Andhra Pradesh shall: (i) select the staff for overseas
training under the Project in consultation with the Association;
(ii) upon completion of such training, post such staff for at least
three years in areas in which training was received; and (iii)
ensure that research staff remain in post for at least five years.


﻿- 11 -
7.    Andhra Pradesh shall, in consultation with the Association:
(a)   not later than December 31, 1994 complete the overview
forest inventory under Part C.2 (ii) of the Project;
(b)   not later than June 30, 1995: (i) complete and operate
the management information system under Part C.2 (iii) of the
Project; and (ii) install the geographical information system under
Part C.2 (iv) of the Project; and
(c)   not later than December 31, 1995, complete, under
principles agreed with the Association, the design of new type
working plans for managing the forest estate, under Parts A.1, A.2
and B.3 of the Project, and shall thereafter initiate their
implementation.
8.    Andhra Pradesh shall complete, not later than December 31,
1994, in consultation with the Association: (i) the transfer of the
required forestry staff to the Wildlife Wing of FD; and (ii) the
staffing of the Planning Cell of the Wildlife Wing.
9.    Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the field investments in each
location under Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with a
microplan for joint forest management between the villagers in that
location and FD; each such plan to be prepared in accordance with a
methodology agreed with the Association.
10.   Andhra Pradesh shall ensure that: (i) Joint Forest Management
benefit sharing arrangements agreed between the villagers and FD,
shall be adhered to, and shall not be changed without prior approval
of the Association; and (ii) joint accounts between the villagers
and FD will be used for joint forest management field investments.
11.   Andhra Pradesh shall: (i) ensure that seedling distribution
shall follow a policy agreed with the Association; and (ii) adjust
the seedling prices every year to cover the full production costs,
as agreed with the Association.
12.   Andhra Pradesh shall, without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, implement a system satisfactory to
the Association for channelling the funds required for the Project,
to the entities involved in carrying out the Project.
13.   Andhra Pradesh shall make available to FDC land of adequate
site quality and in blocks of suitable size for implementation of


﻿- 12 -
the planting program under Part A.2 (ii) (b) of the Project; such
land to be selected in accordance with criteria agreed with the
Association.
14.   Andhra Pradesh shall obtain, or cause to be obtained, in a
prompt and efficient manner, all approvals and clearances from the
Borrower or its relevant departments or agencies as may be necessary
or required for the purpose of implementing the activities under the
Project.
15.   Andhra Pradesh shall, by December 31, 1996, undertake in
collaboration with the Borrower and the Association, a mid-term
review  of  the  Project, and    shall  thereafter  implement  the
recommendations of such review.
16.   For the purpose of assisting in carrying out the Project,
Andhra Pradesh shall select NGOs in accordance with procedures and
criteria agreed with the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


