                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 27511

                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                          (TF-27855 TF-27856 IDA-25990)

                                      ON A

                                    CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 136.2 MILLION (US$188 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                     FOR A

                 SECOND ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT




                                December 24, 2003




Transport
Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                            Currency Unit = Mozambican Meticais
                                Mt 23,250 = US$ 1.00
                                  US$ 1.40 = SDR 1.00

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1   December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASDI (or SIDA)  = Swedish International Development Agency
ADT             = Average Daily Traffic
AfDB            = African Development Bank
BADEA           = Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CFD             = Caisse Française de Development
DCA             = Development Credit Agreement
DEP             = Provincial Department of Roads and Bridges, DNEP
DNEP            = National Directorate of Roads and Bridges
ECMEP           = Provincial State Enterprise for Construction and Maintenance of Roads
                 and Bridges
EU              = European Union
EIRR            = Economic Internal Rate of Return
ESRP            = Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program
FRP             = Feeder Roads Program
FY              = Fiscal Year
GDP             = Gross Domestic Product
GOM             = Government of Mozambique
HDM             = Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IDA             = International Development Association
ICB             = International Competitive Bidding
IRP             = Tanzania Integrated Roads Project
KDF             = Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KfW             = Kreditanstt fir Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LCB             = Local Competitive Bidding
LRC             = Local Road Contractors
LRCI            = Local Road Construction Industry
N.A.            = Not Applicable
OED             = Operations Evaluation Department
p.a.            = per annum
PDP             = Priority Districts Program
RMI             = Road Maintenance Initiative
ROCS            = Roads and Coastal Shipping Projects
RSA             = Republic of South Africa
TA              = Technical Assistance

TOR          = Terms of Reference
USAID        = United States Agency for International Development
voc          = vehicle operating cost
vpd          = vehicles per day

                         Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
                      Country Director    Darius Mans
                       Sector Manager     C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Abdelmoula M. Ghzala

                                       MOZAMBIQUE
                 SECOND ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            44

Project ID: P001804                                                  Project Name: MZ 2nd road and coastal
Team Leader: Abdelmoula M. Ghzala                                    TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: MZ 2nd road and coastal                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-27855; TF-27856;
                                                                                                     IDA-25990
   Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (93%); Central government administration
                            (4%); Sub-national government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/07/1992                                     Effective: 08/13/1994                07/11/1994
     Appraisal: 06/28/1993                                         MTR: 09/30/1995                  09/09/1996
      Approval: 04/07/1994                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MIN. OF CONTRC-WAT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Edward V.K. Jaycox,
Country Manager/Director: Darius Mans                                          Stephen Denning
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Team Leader at ICR:             Abdelmoula M. Ghzala                           John Roome
ICR Primary Author:             Ephrem Asebe


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context. In 1992, following the peace accord, the reconstruction of the Mozambican economy became an
urgent task. To support the recovery of the agricultural sector which accounted then for roughly 50% of the

GDP and 80% of employment, and export earnings, the Bank along with the donor community supported
the Government's Transport Sector Strategy by committing funding in parallel for the First Roads and
Coastal Shipping Projects (ROCS1) in 1992, followed by Second Roads and Coastal Project (ROCS 2) in
1994. ROCS1 focused on laying the groundwork in the sector through the provision of extensive technical
assistance and training to strengthen institutional capacity and the formation of critical Government of
Mozambique's Policy (GOM) to improve the transport sector on a sustainable basis. The Second Roads
and Coastal Project (ROCS 2) was to focus mainly on road rehabilitation and maintenance investment
program while further enhancing the institutional capacity of the road sector being implemented under
ROCS1.

Objective. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the original objective of the ROCS2 were:

(i)      to contribute to the restoration of economic growth through improving road transport and
protecting selected past road investments by rehabilitating priority roads, undertaking backlogged periodic
maintenance, and resuming regular maintenance with a goal of restoring 85% of the paved network and
60% of the unpaved network to good or fair condition; and

(ii)     further strengthening the capacity of the Road Sector, to ensure effective planning and monitoring
by the government, and the development of private sector contractors and operations.

Both objectives are equally important. The sustained restoration of economic growth, depends in part on
the institutional capacity of the road sector. Both objectives were clear and reflected the key elements of the
GOM's 15-year Road Recovery Strategy which was accorded very high priority by GOM to support its
immediate economic recovery target and long-term development goal of economic development. The Road
Recovery Strategy had three key elements: (i) reforming the regulatory and policy environment; (ii) further
strengthening institutional capacity; and (iii) restoration of priority road links (improving access to
marketing for agricultural produces and imports) through minimum cost rehabilitation and deferred
maintenance works. The Project objectives were also in line with International Development Association's
(IDA) country assistance through its Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP) and, more
specifically, the Priority Districts Program (PDP) of Mozambique. The project objectives had also the
support of the donor community who considered them worthy of their respective financial support. While
the risks due to the large size of the project relative to the implementing agencies' capacity were of concern,
the amount of planned investment would only meet the threshold level of transport sector investment needed
to help the recovery of the economy. Recognizing the risks due to the large size of investment the
following decisions were made: the road program was developed taking into account the managerial
capacity at National Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DNEP), now Autonomous Road Agency, (ANE)
and each Provincial Department of Roads and Bridges (DEP-DNEP); the limited number of local
contractors and funding (local and donor, recurrent and capital). Given the uncertainty of peace in the
country at the time, the design of the project was specifically made flexible and various risk mitigating
measures were incorporated to capture the full benefits of the investments under varying conditions of
project implementations.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Project Objectives remained the same through out the project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The project was estimated to cost a total of US$ 814.6 million and planned for co-financing by: African



                                                        - 2 -

Development Bank (AfDB): US$83.4 million (10.2%); the European Union (EU): 97.9 million (12.0%);
United States Agency for International Development (USAID): US$25.0 million (3.1%); Caisse Française
de Development /Republic of South Africa (CFD/RSA): US$17.0 million (2.1%); Arab Bank Economic
Development (BADEA): US$14.9 million (1.8%); Kuwait Fund (KDF): US$14.0 million (1.7%);
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW): US$9 million (1.1%) Feeder Roads Program (FRP) Donors:
US$14.6 million; and, Phase II donors: US$181.8 million (22.3%). The International Development
Association (IDA) Credit was US$188 million. IDA as a lender of last resort was committed to finance
"the next highest unfunded priority" while initially leading the other donors by funding two main roads in
the early phase of the program. At the time of appraisal of the project about US$276 million in addition to
IDA Credit was committed by the donor community, sufficient to finance the first two years of the program
and part of the third year. Assuming peace agreement hold an estimated additional US$170-200 million
was expected. GOM was committed to finance about US$169 million - 100 % of the routine maintenance
and an increasing share of the periodic maintenance over the life of the project estimated at US$114 million
and annual US$10.5 million to cover the emergency and rehabilitation part of the Program. GOM in a
letter of commitment had assured IDA to provide the level of resources needed and the mechanism of
funding for road maintenance and rehabilitation program.

As stated in the SAR, the project's three components were to be co-financed, and included:

Component A: A civil work program (US$750.6 million, or 92% of project costs) comprising:

(i)     emergency rehabilitation or "backlogged" maintenance of about 11,700 km of mainly unpaved
        roads, about 3,200m of Bailey bridges and a road signing program in all 10 provinces;
(ii)    rehabilitation of about 3,450 km priority trunk roads;
(iii)   labor based reconstruction of about 3,250 km of feeder roads; and
(iv)    routine and periodic maintenance of that portion of the network that was in good or fair condition;

Component B: Engineering Services (US$50.1 million or 6% of project costs), such as detailed feasibility
studies, design studies and supervision of civil works in support of the project; and,

Component C: The continuation of the ROCS1 Institution Building Program (US$13.9 million or 2% of
project costs) including the extension of limited technical assistance originally included in ROCS1,
assistance to the local road contracting industry, and short term assistance in engineering, policy and
management issues and logistical support to DNEP and the DEPs (including office equipment, vehicles,
laboratory equipment and housing).

The design of the above three components were clearly linked to the two objectives of the Project described
above. The Project focuses on rehabilitating and maintaining a road network essential to support the
economic recovery and ensure the sustainability of the road assets through building institutional capacity
and funding mechanisms. As noted in the project SAR, the project design incorporated essential lessons
learnt from experience of a similar project in Tanzania and, prior project implementation experience in
Mozambique and the lessons of OED (see Section 3.5).

3.4 Revised Components:

The original objectives of the project remained unchanged. However, over the implementation period, the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended five times to accommodate the challenges the
government faced in meeting its counterpart funds, to allow carrying out of emergency works (repair works
to 2000 and 2001 floods), and to changes in the closing date to allow time for the completion of ongoing



                                                      - 3 -

works.

Specifically, the DCA was amended on December 2, 1998 to increase the percentage share of IDA Credit
contribution for periodic maintenance. The rational for the amendment was: (i) the need for additional
periodic maintenance works with a prioritization of the road program to account for the postponement of a
few major rehabilitation works financed by the donors; and (ii) the gap between the programmed
expenditure to be financed by the road fund and the Road Fund's revenues due to the cap imposed on road
fund revenues for macro-economic reasons. Accordingly, paragraph 1 of schedule 1 of the DCA was
amended increasing IDA funding of periodic maintenance to 80% disbursement.

Further, on June 18, 2001, the DCA was amended to extend the original closing date of June 30, 2001 to
June 30, 2002. Again, on March 24, 2001, the DCA was amended to extend the closing date from June 30,
2001 to June 30, 2002. On April 2, 2002, the closing date was further extended from June 30, 2002 to
June 30, 2003. These were mainly due to extreme floods to two successive years 2000 and 2001, which
was caused extensive damages to the road network and which ANE and the donors (including IDA which
was able to react quickly due to the flexibility of ROCS project) to shift attention to emergency roads
repair (instead of periodic maintenance and rehabilitation). The other minor factor of delays was due to the
nature of the project itself, which was opening roads with no systematic approach and no prior detail
design, which in some cases resulted in major rehabilitation works instead of simple periodic maintenance
as foreseen in the SAR.

Issues such as HIV/AIDS, gender and poverty monitoring not initially included in the project, were
addressed through establishing a Social Unit. However, funding for the HIV/AIDS was provided by the
cofinanceirs and did not require the amendment of the credit.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessed the "project design to be sound" and "ready for
implementation at the time of project approval". The ICR, too, assessed the quality at entry as satisfactory
based on:

(i)   the consistency of the project objectives with GOM priorities and IDA's country assistance programs
      of removing the transport bottleneck to economic recovery on a sustainable basis;

(ii)  the special attention given in project design to lessons of experience from similar projects in other
      countries (such as the Integrated Roads Project in Tanzania), OED's recommendations and
      Mozambique's implementation of IDA financed projects. From the Integrated Roads Project in
      Tanzania, the design incorporated: carefully phasing of policy and investments, explicitly addressing
      the demand side issues in developing local contracting industry through the provision of suitable
      package works, attention to the quick resolution of the equipment issues; from OED, its
      recommendations form "Free-standing Technical Assistance for Institutional Development in
      Sub-Sahara Africa (No. 8573); and from prior projects in Mozambique, advance establishment of
      special accounts and careful disbursement planning; and advance agreement on maintenance and
      counterpart financing.

(iii) clarity on the roles of IDA, donors and GOM in project implementation - with the support of the
      donors, GOM and IDA agreed that IDA's main role would be to continue assisting GOM in
      implementing its regulatory reform and institutional strengthening; financing priority civil works, as a




                                                     - 4 -

      lender of last resort; and coordinating donor participation in the transport sector;

(iv)  risk management, the design of the project recognized the relative large size of the project to the GDP
      (15%) and the budget (27%) - key elements of risk mitigation measures in the project design were
      flexibility and the exit strategies through annual review of outcome in the event one or more of the
      assumptions did not work out. The design also recognized at the outset the institutional weakness of
      the implementing agencies at the start of the project and identified activities to enhance the capacity
      of the implementing agencies including technical assistance for implementation under ROCS1;

(v)   Performance indicators - an important aspect of the design of the project was the quality of the
      performance indicators covering economic, road condition, funding, capacity building and policy
      performance measures (Annex 1); and,

(vi)  Last but not least, the design of the project recognized the weakness in the institutional capacity of
      the project, and made provisions for the development of the local staff on a sustainable basis.

For all the above reasons, the project design was assessed to be comprehensive and sound. It incorporated
relevant lesons identified and could well serve as a model for a more flexible sector investment approach,
with wider applicability within Mozambique and the Africa region under post-conflict condition.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Despite the large size of the Project, institutional weakness at the start of the project and the relative
inexperienced staff of the implementing agencies, both project objectives were substantially met, and the
achievement of the project objectives is assessed as satisfactory. The relative increase in traffic and
decrease in transport cost are reflected in the relatively high post-construction economic rates of return on
rehabilitated projects (see Section 4.3).

A.       Support to Mozambique's Economic Recovery Program through Rehabilitation and
Maintenance of Priority Roads.

This objective has been satisfactorilly achieved in several respects. Overall, the quality of the civil works
significantly improved the serviceability and maintainability of the critical restored road network. Through
extended maintenance and rehabilitation, the road assets of past investments are being preserved. The share
of good and fair road network which was 10% at appraisal now stands at 56% close to appraisal target of
60% for the total road network of 25,339 km in 2003. At closing date of project, about 78% of the paved
road network was also in good or fair condition compared to completion target of 85%. On the average
travel time declined by more than 50%.

Through the rehabilitation of the road network and bridges in the selected priority districts, especially the
significant achievement of the Feeder Roads Program (FRP), the project helped remove transport
bottlenecks particularly for agricultural production and distribution. Overall, the economy has recovered.
GDP, which grew at annual rate of - 0.1% between 1980-1990, averaged 7.5% for the period 1990-2001.
In particular, export of goods and services, which includes transport services, increased to 13.4% of GDP
in 1990-99 from -6.8% in 1980-90. The high rate of growth of the construction sector has also added to the
overall GDP. In particular, the six fold increase in expenditure as compared to appraisal for the
labor-based reconstruction of priority feeder roads in which both gender participated have created
significant number of jobs and generated income for the participants in the works, and has contributed to
the overall alleviation of poverty. The job creation and income generation in the country side through



                                                       - 5 -

construction industry has been highly appreciated both by the beneficiaries and the donor community.

Resumption of regular private transport services to formerly inaccessible areas is now possible as road
conditions have improved. The land mines were removed and the security situation had improved allowing
the people to engage in social and economic activities. The lower unit transport costs in real terms have led
to significant increased traffic as vehicle fleet have also increased from 13,000 to about 200,000 vehicles
over the last ten years. The result is the increase in the basket of goods and services available in rural areas.
The number of bicycles, improved school and social services, increased market activities, better housing
conditions along rehabilitated roads, use of health posts, development of informal sectors are all evidence of
the positive impact of roads improvement.



B. Strengthening the Capacity of the Road Sector

The institutional capacity building programs (technical assistance, training and studies) carried over from
ROCS1 to ROCS2 were substantially achieved and contributed to better planning and monitoring of the
road maintenance by the government and the development of private sector contractors and operations.

Planning and monitoring. While effective planning and monitoring by the Government need to be further
strengthened, modest progress has been made under the project. Further, to make the sector more efficient
and effective, the Road Agency (ANE) has been established and strengthened as an autonomous agency
with its own Board. The Road Fund, intitially under ANE, has become independent of ANE with its own
separate board. A direct transfer mechanism of road fund revenue has been agreed and mechanism for the
transfer of revenue from oil companies to the Road Fund is being worked out. Capacity to manage the
sector and sustain gains from the investments has substantially improved in both ANE and the
Mozambique road sector as a whole. Of over one hundred young engineers trained under ROCS1 and
ROCS2, 41 engineers were employed in ANE where some have taken line responsibility. The remaining
engineers are either working in the public or private sector in Mozambique. A Social Unit which was
established under DNEP, is now part of ANE with an expanded responsibility to address HIV/AIDS,
poverty and gender. The Unit also has setup a database for monitoring the use of labor based methods in
road works.

Local contracting industry. A competitive local road construction industry is emerging. The number of
private contractors in the industry has significantly increased. Local contractors were trained and local
contractors association with over 50 construction firms have been formed. Their capacity has improved
with the support of the TA funded under ROCS1 and ROCS2 projects. With the direct fund transfer
mechanism expected to be in place soon for the Road Fund, the uninterrupted funding for road maintenance
and operation would remove major constraints and further enhance the development of a competitive road
construction industry.

CETA Sarl, a construction enterprise, has been transformed from a state owned enterprise to private
enterprise with acquisition of the major equity by company managers, technicians and workers. The
partnership with Mozambique Investment Company, a venture capital company, has provided CETA Sarl,
an opportunity for acquiring good practice in the construction industry. In addition, the ten Provincial State
Enterprises for Construction and Maintenance of Roads (ECMEP) have been consolidated into three
enterprises. Increasing share of their annual works is now shifting from direct to competitive bidding. By
2005, no direct contract will be assigned to ECMEPs.

Technical Assistance and Consultants Services to ANE have been effective. While students were


                                                       - 6 -

recruited and trained in universities both in country and abroad, the large technical assistance has enhanced
the capacity of ANE. The young engineers trained under ROCS1 and ROCS2 financing have taken line
responsibilities. In addition, several critical useful studies have been financed under the projects and the
findings and recommendations of some of these studies are being applied with positive impact. In
particular, the Integrated Road Sector Strategy for Mozambique, the Financial Management Systems
Developments and Implementation Study, and the Environmental Impact Assessment for the Roads and
Bridges Management and Maintenance Program helped the development and preparation of the on-going
Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program (RBMMP). The Highway Network
Management System (HNMS) was another important study which may need additional work to lay down a
good basis for the assessment of road roughness and road condition. On the institutional front, GOM
planning and procurement capacity was improving with a number of planning, accounting, payment and
procurement procedures now, well established. Local contractor and consultant capacity was also showing
improvement. Nearly US$ 168.08 million, contracted out for road maintenance works and feeder roads
program, was carried out by local contractors.

4.2 Outputs by components:

A. Civil work program (US$750.6 million, SAR; US$ 695.0 million, ICR)

Overview. The outpot of this component is rated as satisfactory and has contributed to the achivement of
objective 1. Field inspections at completion of rehabilitation and maintenance works showed the quality of
works to be overall above average. To accelerate the economic recovery, especially agriculture, enhance
job creation and income generation more resources were directed to funding labor-based construction of
feeder roads from the rest of the civil work program. Social clauses in civil works contracts were applied to
help create awareness of and to mitigate the spread of HIV/AIDS.

(i)      Emergency rehabilitation or "backlogged" maintenance (US$105.5 million SAR; US$ 141.1
million, ICR). The project was declared effective on July 11, 1994, just three months after Board
Presentation. Since the project was ready for implementation, within a short time emergency rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance works through out the country were launched. At the time, about 11,700 km of
mainly unpaved roads, and about 3,200m of Bailey Bridges were estimated to need emergency
rehabilitation or "backlogged" maintenance. A total of 5,993 km of roads and 3,200 meters of Bailey
bridges types were executed under emergency maintenance. The road-signaling program in all ten provinces
was fully executed. As noted above, the traffic volume increased and travel time decreased on rehabilitated
roads. For example, the price of fish fell in inland towns served by the rehabilitated roads. As reported in
the Project's supervision report, by April 1996, over 6,200 km had received major or labor-based
rehabilitation, emergency opening or periodic maintenance.

(ii)     Rehabilitation of priority trunk roads (US$ 400.4 million, SAR; US$ 386.1 million, ICR). The
plan was to rehabilitate about 3,450 km. Actual total roads rehabilitated was 1,436.7 km consisting of
1,227.1 km of major paved road and 209.8 km of major unpaved roads. The small share of rehabilitation
works as compared to appraisal target was due to the serious deterioration of the road condition, higher
costs due to the limited number of contractors participating in the bids, the lack of additional resources due
to the six fold increase in actual expenditure (compared to the planned) for feeder roads to stimulate
economic growth and alleviate poverty through more intensive Feeder Road Program, and the shortfall of
US$42.5 million in expected donors' funding.

(iii)    Labor based reconstruction (US$ 12.0 million, SAR; US$ 73.86 million, ICR). The total
planned labor-based Feeder Road Program for rehabilitation was about 3,250 km of feeder roads.


                                                        - 7 -

However, the total actual length of feeder roads rehabilitated was 6,106.6 km. The labor based Feeder
Roads Program created significant jobs and generated income. The program served as a training ground of
local contractors whose number now stands at over 50 contractors.

(iv)     Routine and periodic maintenance (US$137.0 million; US$ 94.2 million, ICR). The road
network at the start of the project had only about 10% in good to fair condition, compared to 56% at
project completion due the successful routine and periodic maintenance carried out under the project. Over
the project implementation period, a total of 88,545 km of roads received routine maintenance - on the
average of 11,000 km per year. However, the length of roads which had periodic maintenance was 434 km
or 18% of the initial target. This was due to shifts in resources allocations to (i) routine maintenance from
periodic maintenance; (ii) labor-based reconstruction (US$ 12.0 million, SAR; US$ 73.86 million, ICR);
and (iii) emergency rehabilitation or "backlogged" maintenance (US$105.5 million SAR; US$ 141.1
million, ICR) the reduction in the anticipated contributions of the donors (US$42.5 million) and the
increase in road construction unit cost. The Government, however, despite the weakness in making timely
transfer of resources to the road fund, has slightly exceeded its commitment to the project financing.

B. Engineering Services (US$50.1 million, SAR; US$38.4 million project costs)

This component financed: (i) Feasibility and Surveys (Appraisal: US$4.5 million; Actual: US$7.0 million);
(ii) Detail Design (Appraisal: US$9.4 million; Actual: US$4.5 million) and, (iii) Supervision (Appraisal:
US$31.9 million; Actual 26.9 million). Overall, execution was satisfactory. The government has
continuously been committed to enforcing the contract, especially with regard to the quality of works.
Government supervision of consultants and contractors was strict. Those who did not perform as expected
were replaced. This may have contributed to the overall quality of the civil works.

C. The continuation of the ROCS1 Institution Building Program (US$13.9 million, SAR; US$ 38.1
million)

This component financed: (i) Road Sector Capacity Building and Local Contract Development Program
(Appraisal: US$4.3 million; US$11.6 million; ICR); (ii) Policy Support (Appraisal: US$1.5 million;
Actual: US$1.0 million); and (iii) Logistics (US$6.7 million; Actual US$25.5 million). The execution of
this component was also satisfactory. Significant resources were used for Bailey bridges, and logistic
support to ANE such as office equipment, vehicles, laboratory equipment and housing. The latter is an
incentive that ANE has to attract and retain key staff, a key issue of sustainability in Mozambique where
demand for qualified engineers is high.

D. Safeguard Policy

HIV/AIDS, social, gender and environmental issues emerged as a major concern of ROCS2. An estimated
1.3 million people are infected with HIV in Mozambique and the epidemic is now into its second decade.
HIV/AIDS is a major challenge to social and economic development, and the capacity of the Government,
communities and families. This is now addressed through ANE's Social Unit's Action Plan. ANE's Social
Unit is the designated AIDS Focal Point for the road sector at the central level, in charge of dealing with
issues related to HIV/ AIDS. Its mission is the coordination of programs at the level of ANE and
overseeing its follow-up and evaluation, and coordinating with the other national HIV/AIDS programs. The
social Unit has commissioned two studies aimed at recommending on actions to minimize the impact of the
road works on STIs and HIV transmission (Austral, 2002) which form the basis of the Strategy for the
HIV/AIDS sub-component of the Social Unit's Action Plan (from 2003 to 2005). Guidelines were issued
and a set of Social Clauses is now attached to the technical specifications of all roads sub-projects.


                                                      - 8 -

The relationship between the project staff and the local communities, government officials and traditional
leaders is considered an important aspect that will contribute to the overall success of road projects. Under
the social clauses, the contractor is obliged to comply with a series of requirements related to social issues
­ social relations, gender, health, security, wages, living conditions, etc., concerning the contractor's
employees as well as the local communities. The social clauses state that the contractor should use all
reasonable endeavors to ensure workers follow this program. The contractor is required to allow his
workers to participate on HIV/AIDS activities for three hours per month during working hours; to schedule
appropriate timing and duration for the implementation of HIV/AIDS activities as part of the work plan of
the work force and key personnel; to provide suitable sites for communication activities and for condom
distribution, monitoring of the implementation of Peer Educator activities and the provision of support as
necessary to the ASP. The Social Unit has developed AIDS awareness and information activities in
coordination with the health institutions, with support from NGOs. These activities are now being financed
by the follow-on Project. With respect to gender issues related to road work, the social clause also states
that at least 25% of the total unskilled labor force should be women.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic evaluation is based on following six selected roads. As shown in the list below, works on the
different roads ranged from periodic maintenance to new construction.

Road section                  Length     Type of works
Maputo ­ Namaacha Road      75 km        Part construction, part overlay
Marracuene ­ Manhica Road     48 km    Widening and overlay
Chonguene ­Chibuto Road       52 km      Upgrading to paved surface
Inxhope ­ Gorongosa Road      73 km      Part reconstruction, part periodic
                                         maintenance
Gorongosa ­ Caia Road         224 km     Mostly new construction
Pemba ­ Montepuez Road        202        Reconstruction



The re-estimated EIRRs relative to the appraisal estimates and NPV for each road is summarized below.
Five of the six roads show ERR values exceeding 12 per cent, with a range from 12.8 to 57.6 per cent. The
exception is the Gorongosa-Caia road, where the indicated rate of return is 10.6 per cent, below the 12 per
cent benchmark. However, the road will in practice constitute a vital link in the country's main north-south
highway, and may yield substantial development benefits in the longer term, especially once the Zambezi
river has been bridged at Caia, as is currently planned. Sensitivity analysis carried assuming a 20%
decrease in projected benefit showed above the 12% for all except for Gorongossa-Caia road which
reduced to 8.2%.

         EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, US$ million)

                                           SAR                        ICR
                                           EIRR                  EIRR      NPV
Maputo ­ Namaacha Road                      24.7                  18.81      7.9
Marracuene ­ Manhica Road                   49.0                 57.63      9.71
Chonguene ­Chibuto Road                     32.8                   20.1     4.03
Inxhope ­ Gorongosa Road                    23.0                   12.8     0.53
Gorongosa ­ Caia Road*                         -                  10.6     -6.13
Pemba ­ Montepuez Road                      22.7                 18.51      6.50



                                                         - 9 -

*Result could radically change for the better once the Zambezi River Bridge is constructed



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Overall, institutional impact is positive. DNEP, responsible for maintenance and management of the road
system under ROCS2, saw further strengthening following its transformation to ANE. The Road Fund
which is part of ANE is being reorganized as a separate unit with its own board. Over one hundred students
have graduated from universities mainly in engineering studies. These young engineers are having hands-on
experience under experts financed under the project. A private local contracting industry has emerged with
over 50 contracting firms and executed most of the feeder road program and road maintenance civil
works.The contractors have formed an association which has been fighting for a bigger share of the of the
investment contracts. The former roads brigades, ECMPs are increasingly operating on competitive bidding
basis. The training provided to the contractors has significant positive impact on efficiency and quality of
works completed. The Social Unit with its social clauses is addressing issues of AIDS/HIV, gender and
environmental issues. The findings and recommendations of studies completed under the project are being
implemented with an overall positive impact (section 4.1). However, notwithstanding the positive impact
made by the project to date, systematic strengthening of the planning and monitoring capabilities of ANE
need to be pursued in follow-on projects.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Flooding: In 2000 and 2001, exceptional rainfall caused a one in 100-year flooding. Resources had to be
diverted from the rest of the program to repair the damages done to certain sections of the roads. The flood
exposed that certain sections of roads experienced repeated failure, underscored the need to address such
problems with special design taking into account the long-term solution.

Phasing of institutional and policy reforms and civil works: By focusing on institutional and policy
reforms under ROCS1 and creating institutional capacity, the project was able to make progress on the
civil works program under ROCS2. In this regard, the Project staff made wise decisions by taking into
account the experience from similar projects and the recommendations of OED report on free standing
technical assistance for institutional development in sub-Saharan Africa. The subsequent success of
ROCS2 has attracted the attention of the Governments of Angola and DR of Congo which are addressing
similar post-conflict economic recovery and institutional problems in the road sector, as did Mozambique in
the early 1990s.

Donor coordination: The donor coordination in the road sector in Mozambique was generally good and
greatly contributed to the successful implementation of the program. However, more donors having support
staff at the local level will further improve coordination. The alignment of the individual donor's assistance
with the project objectives and IDA's country assistance program made coordination relatively easy for
IDA, the lead agency.

Technical Assistance: The quality of technical experts recruited for TA was overall good and contributed
to the accomplishments of the project objectives. At the time of project implementation start up, ANE had



                                                                      - 10 -

only about 5 national engineers. ANE now has retained 41 of over 100 young engineers trained under the
project. The TA also provided hands-on-experience for ANE's young engineers.

Lack of adequate materials in the close vicinity of some road works: To address this general issue
(which is typical in many other countries), the Bank assisted ANE to set up a research and development
unit headed by an international material engineer to develop alternative economic road construction
materials. This was done and a joint paper by Mozambique and Uganda (with Bank support) on the new
construction materials was prepared and published and presented at the International Conference on Low
Traffic Roads held in Nevada in June 2003.

Cost escalation. As noted in Section 5.4, cost escalation was higher than anticipated at design due to
several factors including cost of material and higher increase in the general level of the domestic prices.
During project implementations, such increase in prices affected price adjustment clause to contracts
lasting less than 18 months.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:


Government Commitment: Despite delays in timely disbursement, particularly from the Road Fund
which continues to be of concern for the implementing agency and the donor community, the commitment
of GOM to the sector has remained strong. GOM has largely met its share of the counterpart funds. In fact,
it paid US$176.8 million to the project compared to US$169.0 million foreseen originally. However, the
low level consumption of fuel due to low traffic volume may constraint generating adequate road fund in
the immediate future.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Delays in payments of local contractors: Over the course of project implementation, for reasons of
meeting macroeconomic targets, the Ministry of Finance exercised payment restrictions from the Road
Fund. This had adversely impacted the continuity of payments to the local contractors. Until the mechanism
for direct transfers to the Road Fund is put in place, the uncertainty will continue to be a potential problem
to the development of the local contracting industry.

Flexibility: The establishment of a Social Unit within ANE has helped articulate policies, and taking
measured actions related to social, gender, environment and HIV/AIDS issues. Based on recommendations
of studies, and experimentation on a small scale, Social Clauses are now an important feature of every civil
works contract. As noted above (Section 4.2), the social clauses oblige the contractor to take measures
related to the welfare of the workers and the community where roads construction and maintenance works
are being executed.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$ 814.6 million, including contingencies of US$
102.0 million of which US$ 188.0 million equivalent was financing by IDA, US$ 169 million from GOM
and the balance US$ 457.6 million from the cofinanciers. The total actual cost of the project was
US$776.26 million, falling short by US$38.34 million of the appraisal amount. Financing was from IDA
Credit, US$186.26 million; from GOM US$176.8 million, and US$413.2 from other donors (Annex 2).

On the cost side, unit costs assumed at appraisal for each category of works were on the low side, partly
due to the absence of a competitive construction industry, partly to the greater than expected deteriorated



                                                     - 11 -

state of the roads, and partly due to lack of adequate construction material in close proximity to the road
works (See Section 5.1).
                 Average Cost (US$/km)
Type of Activity              Appraisal Actual              % increase
"Backlogged"/emergency             6,000          23,500            292
works
Rehabilitation                    150,000       286,740              91
Feeder Roads                       17,000         61,000            259
Periodic maintenance                 4.500         12093            169
Routine maintenance                  250              765           206

"Backlogged" maintenance/emergency works/ was appraised at US$6,000/km but actual cost averaged
US$23,500/km, an increase of 292%; average planned cost of rehabilitation was US$150,000/km
compared to actual cost of US$ 286,740 per km (ranging from US$ 106,000 per km to US$350,000 per
km). Assumed periodic maintenance cost was US$17,000/km for resealing of paved roads while actual cost
averaged US$61,000/km. Feeder roads which had an estimated cost of US$4,500/km at appraisal but has
actual average of US$12,093 per km. Routine maintenance cost US$250 per km had an average US$
765/km. Thus, net increases in unit prices range from 91% for periodic maintenance to 292% for
"backlogged' maintenance or emergency works, far above the price contingencies of the baseline costs
allowed in the project design. This explains in part the relative shortfalls in the actual length of rehabilitated
roads and in the limited size of the length of roads receiving periodic maintenance. A six-fold increase in
resource from the appraisal estimate which resulted in doubling of the feeder roads as well as the US$38.34
decrease in expenditure also contributed to the shortfall in the length of roads receiving rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The Project sustainability is rated as likely due to the favorable factors made possible by the achievement
of the project and GOM commitment:

Favorable sector policy environment: The favorable private sector policy stance has helped develop
local contractors. The EMCEPs are increasingly being encouraged to bid for contracts. By 2005, they are
expected to fully compete for all works. CETA Sarl, is transformed from state-owned to a private company
and is operating with a venture capital company as a shareholder, Mozambique Investment Company. The
development of such a competitive construction industry environment is likely to reduce costs and enhance
quality of construction.

Growing institutional capacity: The streamlined Road Agency organizational structure focuses on
contract management and monitoring, while trained young engineers are being exposed to best practices by
working with experts in their fields. However, although the current relative higher remuneration to
professionals at ANE gives the Agency a competitive edge to attract and retain qualified staff, the incentive
needs to remain competitive as ANE has already lost over half of its trained staff to the private sector and
other Government agencies.

Road maintenance fund: Mechanism being developed for direct transfer will encourage planning and
allow optimum allocation of the resources of the Road Fund by the Road Fund Board, which is separate


                                                      - 12 -

and independent from the Road Agency (and its Board).

A follow-on Project: The quick commencement of the ongoing ten-year follow-on project, Roads and
Bridges Management and Maintenance Project (RBMMP) which provides broad donor financial and
technical support to the road sector is likely to deepen institutional and policy reforms and contribute to the
sustainability of the road network in good to fair condition.

Social recognition for members of the Board of the Road Fund: Members of the Board include
representatives of the contractors association and road users. The institutional arrangement is expected to
provide transparency and effective use of the road fund. Moreover, given the potential social pressure on
members of the Board by their respective constituents, the probability of a good functioning Road Fund is
enhanced. This is evidenced by the relatively high success of the routine maintenance program under the
project where local contractors serve as pressure group as they are the main beneficiaries of the road fund
expenditure.

A functioning Social Unit: In the Road Agency, the Social Unit advocates for measures related to
HIV/AIDS, gender, road safety, and environment policies. The Social Unit's social clause included in every
bidding document has enhanced the quality of works and the welfare of the workers recruited locally. By
creating awareness and behavioral changes, its policies promote the fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS,
the participation of female in the work force, the preservation of the environment and the road safety.
Through the policies promoted by the Social Unit, the human resources of ANE and the community, for
whom the roads are being constructed, may be protected from the spread of AIDS/HIV. The participation
of women in civil works activities would enhance poverty alleviation.

GOM commitment: GOM has demonstrated its commitment to its Road Recovery Strategy. During the
implementation of ROCS2, GOM has contributed US$178.6 million compared to its commitment of
US$169 million at project appraisal. However, there were times when contractors experienced delayed
payments. This will be corrected through direct transfer mechanism to the road fund from the oil
companies.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

As noted above, most of the measures needed for sustainability of the benefits of the project were integrated
or being integrated into regular operation of ANE. In particular, the road maintenance and institutional
capacity building measures have been continued under IDA funded follow-on project, Roads and Bridges
Management and Maintenance Project (RBMMP). However, continued donors support to the follow-on
project depends on the Government commitment to improve the transfer mechanism for the road fund. The
government has adopted a legislation, which support the establishment of a separate Road Fund, and it is
actively studying the experience of other countries with direct transfer mechanism from the oil companies
(road user fee).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank Performance in lending operation was satisfactory. The extended dialogue between the Bank and
GOM, the desire of Project team and management to develop a model investment program which
incorporated the lessons from the experience of GOM in project implementation, other projects in the
region, OED's findings and recommendations and lessons from Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI)


                                                     - 13 -

contributed to the quality (Section 3). This resulted in a model investment program, which is characterized
by flexibility, realism and focused on supporting the economic recovery of Mozambique, and creating
institutional capacity and policy reform. Already, the Governments of Angola and DR of Congo are
studying the Mozambique's successful post-conflict experience.

Identification was satisfactory. ROCS1 became effective in 1992 and ROCS2 in 1994. The phased
investment program allowed ROCS1 to address mainly institutional and policy reforms to create favorable
conditions for successful implementation of the works program under ROCS2.

Preparation of the Project was also satisfactory. Preparation of the project was undertaken during a very
difficult period in Mozambique's history. Although the peace accord was signed in 1992, the road network
was mined and the bridges have been destroyed. It was difficult to drive around and ascertain the road
condition. Some of the surveys had to be done from the air, as there was no access. Priority had to be given
to areas, which can contribute to improved agricultural production. There was no certainty which
agricultural product the market would favor. The intuitional capacity was relatively weak. Implementing
agency had no more than five engineers. The uncertainty, the lack of full knowledge of the situation on the
ground, the direction of development of the agricultural sector all led the Bank team to approach the
preparation from a new perspective and hence the focus on phasing of investment activities, institutional
capacity and policy reforms in stage. The development was to be gauged through annual reviews.
Subsequent developments have confirmed that the model was appropriate for Mozambique during the
post-conflict period where long-term planning was difficult due to the political and economic uncertainties
facing the country.

Appraisal was satisfactory. An appraisal team of specialist in finance, engineering, operation, procurement,
and environment participated. Government commitment was documented in the Letter of Sector Policy and
Letter of Commitment of Local Resources. The risks due to the pattern and speed of agricultural recovery,
the possibility of reversal of the security situation, the timing and extent of regulatory reform and
institutional strengthening were considered. The implementation risks in particular in the area of funding,
procurement, contract management and contract supervision, equipment and contract development, and
training and staff retention within Road Agency were analyzed. Flexible overall project design, phased
investment plans, and annual project reviews mitigating some of the risks emerged as key aspects of the
appraisal.

7.2 Supervision:

Over the period of 1994-2003, supervision missions was led by three task team leaders. The continuity of
the staff was maintained through relatively well-documented supervision activity reports. The change in
staff did not seriously affect the quality of supervision. The skill mix of the supervision varied depending
on the issues the staff had planned to address during the specific supervision. As noted in Section 3, the
Quality Assurance Group rated the quality of supervision assessment as 'satisfactory' and the realism of the
project performance indicators as 'highly satisfactory'. The supervision team is credited for greatly
improving the social orientation of the project, the development of an HIV/AIDS component, and piloting
in one subproject area with the intent of expanding it in all subproject areas. In view of the limited technical
staff of the implementing agency, Bank team's involvement was critical in assuring the quality of
institutional and policy reforms. The task team, has remained within the spirit of the design of the project
by being flexible throughout project implementation. In particular, during the period the government was
unable to meet its commitment on the road fund due to its other commitments to achieve macroeconomic
targets, the teams's flexible stance was critical to assure continued donors' commitment and to the overall
success of the project. Overall, the performance of the IDA supervision staff was consistent and



                                                       - 14 -

satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance was rated satisfactory. The lending team has developed a sectoral
investment model for Mozambique, which has generated wider interest as a good prototype for project
design in post-conflict countries in Sub-Sahara Africa region, although the model could have even wider
application under certain circumstances. The supervision team, with the appropriate skill mixes has
followed the flexible approach and contributed to the overall quality of the project outcomes. The
supervision team's initiative has helped launch Social Action Plan which addressed HIV/AIDS, poverty,
gender and labor input data base, not initially included in the project appraisal.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower reparation of the project was satisfactory. Since the government had planned to provide only
about 20% of the total appraisal project cost of US$814.6 million, a key element of project preparation was
winning the support of the donor community who would fund the balance of 80%. Through well
documented Letter of Sectoral Policy, Letter of Commitment of Local Resources, Transport Sector
Strategy and Road Recovery Strategy; GOM persuaded the donor community of its serious commitment to
the project. With only five engineers in house, most of the preparation had to be contracted out, or
implemented with recruited technical assistance staff. The selection of TA staff was executed well. Thus,
the government has performed well in policy formulation, resource mobilization and consultant
recruitments.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall, government implementation performance has been satisfactory. Having charted the strategy, it has
stayed the course. Given its limited capacity, it had to rely on technical assistance for much of the
implementation. Its selection of TA staff proved to be satisfactory. In some cases where the TA staff did
not perform as expected, the Road Agency's management did not hesitate to ask for replacement. Except
for the recurring issue of the road fund transfer mechanism, which has at times been a source of conflict
with the donor community, it has performed well given the major institutional constraints it faced at the
start of the project. Moreover, at project closing, the road fund transfer mechanism has been agreed and the
Road Fund was established with a separate Board from the Road Agency's Board. It has supported the
social issues by enforcing the social clauses.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Overall, ANE (its predecessors DNEP and DEP), has performed satisfactorily. It has been proactive in
certain areas such as establishing of the Social Unit. Over the implementation life of ROCS2, ANE has
emerged as a potential model Road Agency. It has young engineers willing to get field experience.
However, to retain its staffs, it need to pay relatively competitive salaries. Moreover, at this time, the skill
mix of ANE is strongly biased towards civil engineers and may benefit from recruiting economists, and
statistician, particularly in the area of planning.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory. Both the implementing agencies and the
Government have shown serious commitment even under difficult budgetary constraints. GOM's


                                                      - 15 -

commitment to institutional reforms and staff training, its willingness to provide better incentives to retain
the staff are evidences that the government has remained committed to the policies expressed in the sector
letters to IDA at the time of preparation of the project.


8. Lessons Learned

Successful post-conflict transitional model: ROCS's relatively large size of investment, number of
donors, and number of contracts and the relative weak institutional capacity puts it in the category of
complex projects. Yet, the success of the Mozambican experience under the ROCS project confirmed the
validity of the hypothesis on which the project was initially conceived --that flexible overall design, phased
investment plans and annual project reviews can lead to effective outcome even under weak institutional
environment, provided the project design incorporates technical assistance, training and supervision,
and up-front policy reform to manage the risks. This view was shared by other donors. This model, put
forward by the project team in cooperation with the borrower, provided the strategic conceptual framework
for donors consultation. It also provided the basis for building the donor community trust and confidence in
support of the program with IDA as a lead agency. The approach helped mobilize significant share of the
needed resources and helped remove the transport bottleneck with significant positive impact on
post-conflict reconstruction of Mozambique. The success of ROCS2 and its significant impact on the
economic recovery is evidenced by the relatively high GDP growth (7.5% over 1990-2001), increased
export of goods and services (from ­6.8% to +3.4 % of GDP); significant jobs and employment creation
under FRP; improvement in the basket of consumption in rural areas. Moreover, as noted above, the
success of ROCS has inspired curiosity of other neighboring post-conflict countries who have also seen,
like Mozambique, their road networks not only deteriorated but also mined. Overall, the project design
incorporated best practices and could serve as a model for a more flexible sector investment approach with
potential applicability within Mozambique and the Africa region. However, while the approach has been
successful for post-conflict situation, once the transition phase is completed, continuing on the same path
would have serious drawback. The flexibility in investment work may lead to disregard serious planning
and execution towards achieving specific targets on long-term basis. With limited resources for the sector,
this could be a serious problem. The follow-on project is designed to inculcate discipline and careful
planning, execution and achieving of well planned and prioritized targets, according to the national
integrated road strategy.

The Road Fund Dilemma: In 1997, during the fourth year of project supervision, GOM was faced with
hard budget constraints arising from competing commitments. On one hand, there was a resource need for
additional periodic maintenance for works, stemming from the rephrasing of a few major rehabilitation
works financed by donors; and on the other hand, there was a resource gap between the programmed
expenditures to be financed by the Road Fund and the Road fund's revenues due to the cap imposed on road
fund revenues for macroeconomic reasons. Bank project team and management, after due consideration of
the borrower's resource constraints; supported the borrower's request for an increased IDA funding of
periodic maintenance up to 90%. As a lead agency, IDA's response played a critical role in harmonizing
the competing demands of the donors and helped the government meet its international commitments. Such
flexibility with respect to conditionality constraints, particularly in a post-conflict society, is critical to
bridge resource gaps during transitional adjustment period, and the conflicting demands of international
development agencies.

Social orientation of the project: Though mitigating measures for HIV/AIDS was not included in the
original design, the supervision team together with the Borrower addressed social issues by including an
HIV/AIDS component, piloted in one subproject area and expanded it to all subprojects. This experiment



                                                      - 16 -

has led to social clauses, which oblige contractors for the welfare and protection of their workers,
particularly, from the spread of HIV/AIDS. In addition, supervision has led to improvement in the
mechanisms of monitoring and evaluating the social and economic impact of the project. Such proactive
stance of supervision team need to be encouraged and such team should be recognized for its innovative
approaches.

Appropriate engineering planning and design: The 2000 and 2001, one in a hundred-year flooding
exposed serious repeated failures in certain sections of the rehabilitated roads. Floods of less than one in a
hundred-year are more frequent in most of the developing countries and are known to cause serious
damages to roads and bridges. This underscored the need to specifically address the trade-offs of the
economic life of roads and bridges in flooding areas and to carefully construct such flood prone road
sections. The flexibility of the project design allowed to quickly respond to the urgent needs for road repair
following floods. However, unless for emergency operation, it is preferable to approach the road sector and
road works with a systematic approach with appropriate detailed design prior to starting works. This would
allow to know the exact nature of works needed and properly estimate the costs and avoid surprises,
overruns, unnecessary claims and undue delays during construction.

Development of competitive local road construction industry: With the support of TA and demand for
contracting capacity under ROCS2 to the local road contracting industry, the number of private contractors
in the construction industry have significantly increased. A contractor association which champions its
members interest has been created. However, quality of works and cost of construction have emerged as a
concern (section 5.4). ANE plans to address these issues through more training and through the promotion
of competitive bidding to stimulate innovation and cost effectiveness of the industry. By 2005, the plan is to
eliminate all direct awards of all civil works and bid all contracts, including Provincial State Enterprises for
Construction and Maintenance of Roads and Bridges (ECMEPs). In view of the Bank's commitment to
poverty alleviation and the relative importance in value added of civil works contracts to the GDP and
poverty alleviation, special attentions need to be given to the development of domestic contracting industry.
In Mozambique, the stable flow from the road fund to road maintenance and the labor-intensive works for
Feeder Roads Program could serve as ground for the development of the local contracting industry.

Lessons already incorporated in the design of the follow-on project, BRMMP. Reflecting the
requirement of the improved economic environment, under which BRMMP is to be implemented, its design
has: (i) incorporated a systematic approach to all road works; (ii) revised the tender documents to limit the
price adjustment clause to contracts expected to last more than eighteen months; (iii) introduced adequate,
realistic and feasible sector reforms including separation of the road Fund, from ANE and having separate
boards of directors and one road council overseeing the overall sector; and (iv) within ANE and the Road
Fund separate state of the art financial management systems and training program for national staff to
adequately operating these financial management systems.




                                                     - 17 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


Background and Overview

This report has been prepared as part of the Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the Second Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (ROCS-2), in accordance with the
standard requirements for World Bank credit agreements, and on behalf of the Director General of the
Administração Nacional de Estradas (ANE) of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, the Government
of Mozambique's executing agency.

Any assessment of the Second Roads and Coastal Shipping Project must begin with an understanding of the
context in which the project was conceived and implemented. ROCS-2 was initiated very shortly following
the peace accord and the beginning of economic and social recovery efforts in Mozambique. It also
followed immediately on the heels of the First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (ROCS-1) and ran
concurrently with it. Whereas ROCS-1 addressed mainly the problems of institutional capacity and
providing technical assistance to the road sector, ROCS-2 addressed the need to urgently open and
rehabilitate the badly deteriorated road infrastructure, and then to provide the necessary maintenance in
order to sustain the benefits from that investment. It also complemented the institutional support provided
under ROCS-1, a process that began with institutional capacity represented by two Mozambican engineers
and has since grown to a roads management system that now employs dozens of local engineers, supported
by technicians and others, with a total professional staff of over 100.

It must also be understood that at the time ROCS-2 was initiated and during its implementation, there was
public concern, including press coverage, regarding the appropriateness of so much of Mozambique's
scarce resources and access to credit being invested in roads. While the need to upgrade the road network
was apparent, some of the public questioned the capital-intensive nature of road infrastructure investments
at a time when other social needs were so glaring. There were also questions regarding the selection of
roads to open and rehabilitate; the technologies being utilized to reconstruct the road network, the
employment of foreign consultants and contractors, and the lack of capacity of local entrepreneurs. In short,
questions regarding the effectiveness of the project were raised from the start.

The ROCS-2 project was able to respond to these challenges as a result of the flexibility built into its design
and implementation. The main lessons learned from ROCS-1 included the need to strengthen project design
and control. To address many of the issues being raised by the public, the implementing agency, initially
DNEP and later ANE (referred to jointly as DNEP/ANE) with the assistance of the World Bank responded
by selecting a team to examine these problems. To address the macroeconomic-impact and
resource-allocation issues, more systematic social-economic benefit analysis was incorporated into project
selection to ensure that road rehabilitation had the greatest immediate impact. The flexibility of ROCS-2
was demonstrated as programs were developed to train and support local small contractors so as to develop
local capacity. And research into the suitability of local construction materials was undertaken so as to
improve the quality and sustainability of the civil works.

The challenges continued during implementation as Mozambique was ravaged by floods in 2000 and 2001,
which in addition to the horrendous human and social costs, also caused substantial damage to a still fragile
road network. ROCS-2 enabled the Government to respond quickly and effectively to these needs by
allocating emergency funds to the repair of the most impacted sections of roads.




                                                     - 18 -

During the course of ROCS-2, contracting problems also arose, due to both institutional and financial
reasons including significant depreciation of the local currency, resulting in the need to efficiently deal with
claims and price adjustment issues. The flexibility of ROCS-2 enabled the Government to resolve these
problems and to ensure that projects and contracts were successfully realized.

In all these matters, the very close collaboration of ANE, the Bank and other donors enabled the
Government to react effectively and efficiently. Moving from ROCS-1 to ROCS-2 and now ultimately to
Roads-3 (the current program being funded by the Bank and other donors), DNEP/ANE has been able to
move forward and ensure sustainability.

Mozambique's road network at the end of ROCS-2 is dramatically improved over its state at project
inception. But as importantly, road sector management is also dramatically improved, including the
realization of sector and institutional reforms, increased management capacity, planning capabilities, better
engineering design, proper contract management, and state of the art financial management.

To be sure, much remains to be accomplished in upgrading the road infrastructure and in continuing
institutional development. These are the objectives of the Roads-3 program, the World Bank component of
which is called the Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Programme (RBMMP). Using the
accomplishments and lessons learned from ROCS-2 as a base, there is every reason to believe that this next
program should be very successful.

1.       Project Assessment

The condition of the road infrastructure, at the start of ROCS-2, presented a major challenge to
Mozambique in general and ANE in particular. Following years of civil war and neglect of the road
network, a weak, poorly staffed and trained roads maintenance and management administration faced great
difficulties in mobilizing resources and methods needed for the rehabilitation of the road network, sorely
needed as a precondition to economic growth and national development.

ROCS-2, following almost immediately on the heels of the First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (
ROCS-1), established the necessary institutional, manpower, and financial resources, which enabled the
GOM to start the rehabilitation of the road network, ensure the implementation of maintenance, and develop
the capacity to plan and implement road management strategies.

1.1      Objectives

The primary project objective of the ROCS-2 project was defined as "to contribute to the restoration of
economic growth through: (i) improving road transport and protecting selected past road investments by
rehabilitating priority roads and eliminating much of the huge backlog of deferred maintenance and
resuming regular maintenance activities; and (ii) further strengthening the capacity of the Road Sector, by
continuing the regulatory reform and institution building initiated under ROCS-1, to ensure effective
planning and monitoring by the government and by the development of private sector contractors and
operators, to a large extent through on the job activities."

The physical (civil works) objectives were to be achieved in parallel with the institutional objectives. It was
clearly understood that the improvements in the latter were necessary to ensure the efficient implementation
of civil works, but that the most pronounced impact of institutional reforms and strengthening would only
become evident toward the end of the ROCS-2 project. It was also clear that successful achievement of


                                                     - 19 -

objectives would depend on the timely delivery of the required financial resources by both government and
donors.

It is clear today, simply from the increase in road traffic and reduced travel times throughout most of the
road network, that the ROCS-2 project substantially addressed the objectives of improving road transport
and reducing backlog maintenance. Very significant improvements in institutional capacity have also been
realized, accompanied by a complete reform in the management of the road sector. The principle of regular
maintenance has been institutionalized and accepted at all levels. The main challenges remaining to ensure
the sustainable realization of this objective include ensuring the availability of adequate local funding and
additional improvements in institutional capacity to manage the process.

1.2      Design

Due to the uncertainty surrounding projected agricultural and industrial developments and hence traffic
levels, road conditions and rehabilitation costs, the project was designed with flexibility. This functioned
well and facilitated changes to the program to accommodate changed priorities resulting from delays in the
completion of the backlog maintenance, changes in priority districts, the need to address natural disasters,
(e.g. the floods of 2000 and 2001). A further advantage of the flexible approach was the ability to
accommodate new donor support throughout the project (e.g., the Japanese bridge funding which permitted
the replacement of some thirty bailey bridges on primary and secondary roads with permanent concrete
structures, and then the reuse of the bailey bridges on tertiary roads).

Whilst the flexible approach allowed for changed priorities it also offered a convenient mechanism for
accommodating institutional delays and for being able to deal with technical issues such as the suitability of
materials. And although total Government contributions to the project exceeded the levels established in the
original PAD, delays in funding were also able to be accommodated.

1.3      Implementation

The ROCS-2 project was conceived as a five-year program with closure in June 2001. The closing date was
twice extended, first to June 2002 and then to June 2003, to accommodate the Government's needs to
consolidate its financial commitment due to macroeconomic reasons and also in order to accommodate
completion of civil works due to changes that arose during the course of the project. These included some
changes in orientation as more systematic approaches to project selection and implementation, and also as a
consequence of the priorities that had to be given to emergency works in response to the floods of 2000 and
2001.

Under ROCS-2 substantial improvements were achieved in reopening nearly half of the classified road
network. The percentage of roads in good or fair condition increased from 10% at project appraisal to 56%
at the close of ROCS-2, very close to the target of 60%, while impassable roads decreased from 50% to
only 8% of the network. Similarly, at closing about 78% of the paved road network was in good or fair
condition compared with a target of 85%.

The management of the road sector was reformed with the creation of the semi-autonomous road agency
(ANE), which replaced the government's National Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DNEP) previously
responsible for the road network, and the strengthening of the Road Fund for the financing of road
maintenance. Simultaneously, substantial progress was made in institutional capacity building, development
of local road works execution capacity, and training of technicians and engineers.




                                                     - 20 -

The difficulties that the Government faced in making available in a timely fashion the committed and
required levels of funding for maintenance did lead to delays in the achievement of periodic maintenance
and rehabilitation targets; yet these targets were eventually attained as both Government and donors
accommodated the program to financial constraints.

1.3.1    Civil Works

Primary and Secondary Roads: Under ROCS-2, planned rehabilitation of priority trunk roads was
approximately 3,500 kilometers and actual rehabilitation was 1,437 kilometers consisting of 1,227
kilometers of paved roads and 210 kilometers of unpaved roads. The low percentage of rehabilitation
achieved in relation to that planned was largely due to the serious deterioration of the road network, higher
costs due to the limited numbers of contractors participating in bids and the desire to stimulate economic
growth and alleviate poverty through a more intensive Feeder Road Program. The shortfall was, however,
partially offset by execution of a total of 5,993 km of roads and some 3,200 meters of bailey bridges under
the emergency maintenance component of the project. All of these works have lead to reductions in travel
times of up to 50%.

Tertiary Roads: Between 1992 and 2000, 6,630 kilometer of tertiary and unclassified roads, out of a total
of 15,868, were rehabilitated under the ROCS-1 and ROCS-2 rural programs, which were carried out by
ANE's Directorate of Regional Roads (DER). Actual labor-intensive works totaled 6,107 kilometers,
almost double the planned amount of 3,250 kilometers. Over half of the rural roads works were located in
the northern four provinces of Zambezia, Nampula, Cabo-Delgado, and Niassa where the feeder roads
programs were largely focused.

Routine Maintenance: Routine maintenance execution also improved steadily and substantially. In 1994,
less than four thousand kilometers of the total classified network were subject to routine maintenance. This
number climbed steadily to almost 15,000 kilometers of road in 1998. Over the 8 years of ROCS-2, a total
of 88,546 kilometers of road received routine maintenance, an average of 11,000 km per year. Measured
against the targets established by the Government, the amount of routine maintenance executed from 1994
through 1999 was, on average, nearly 80% of the programmed amount. The average level of coverage
(percent of total network given routine maintenance) during this period was 36%, ranging from 26% in
Zambezia province to 58% in Manica province.

Periodic Maintenance: By contrast, execution of periodic maintenance fell short of the planned levels.
According to the targets established by the 1994 Sector Policy Letter, an average of over 3,000 kilometers
of periodic maintenance were to be executed from 1994 to 1999, while an average of only 434 kilometers
(18% of the target) were carried out. This shortfall in the physical volume of periodic maintenance was
largely due to higher unit costs of maintenance as the scope of required maintenance activities became
known and due to a shifting of priorities some planned periodic maintenance was redefined to rehabilitation
to take into account the actual condition of roads as more systematic selection and design of civil works
was built into the project. These problems of planning and executing maintenance were evaluated and led to
a strengthening of highway network management through the development of the Highway Network
Management System and subsequently contributed to the improved design of the follow-on project, Roads-3
.

1.3.2    Capacity Building

Regulatory Reforms: Considerable progress was made with regard to regulatory reforms, which culminated


                                                    - 21 -

in the disbanding of DNEP and the establishment of the autonomous ANE. The establishment of ANE did
not, however, address all of the planned regulatory reforms, namely the separation of the administrative
authority from the Road Fund. This separation was, however, achieved at the same time as the closure of
ROCS-2 i.e. in June 2003.

Institutional Capacity Building: Both DNEP and now ANE have benefited from substantial institutional
building initiatives. At the start of ROCS-2, the professional staff of DNEP consisted of some 5 engineers
(there were 2 engineers at the start of ROCS-1. During the course of the project around 100 engineers have
graduated, some 41 of which are on the ANE staff. In addition, DNEP and ANE staff have benefited from
specialized courses and specially tailored on-the-job training. As expected given the shortage of qualified
personnel and personnel throughout the country in both the public and private sector, some of these trained
personnel have moved from DNEP/ANE to work in the private sector and related government institutions as
well. Thus the impact on national capacity in fact surpasses the substantial benefits that have been realized
in DNEP/ANE capacity alone.

Planning Capacity: Under ROCS-2, a computerized highway management information system was
developed and implemented, which permitted a more systematic and methodical planning of civil works
interventions. During the course of ROCS-2, the Highway Network Management System (HNMS) has
significantly improved the ability of ANE to analyze road network data and to plan maintenance schedules.
Further development of local capacity to manage and utilize this planning tool is required to fully realize the
potential of the HNMS. In particular, the need to focus on the development engineering skills did not
adequately permit the employment or development of information systems, planning, and other specialists
who are needed to most effectively apply these specific planning tools. However, these needs were
recognized and training priorities in the follow-on project, Roads-3, reflect this.

Engineering Capacity: Under ROCS-2, considerable advances were made in the adoption and development
of appropriate standards for structural design and rehabilitation of road pavements and for road
construction materials. DNEP/ANE also developed standards for the maintenance of Mozambican roads.
But foremost among the engineering issues addressed under ROCS-2 was the quality of local materials and
their suitability to design requirements--mainly with regard to the "wearing" course in unsurfaced roads
and the base on surfaced roads. It was determined that road construction materials meeting standard
specifications are simply not available in large areas of Mozambique and that between 30-40% of the road
network falls in areas where suitable wearing course materials are not available within an economically
viable hauling distance. In the past these materials were either used as they occurred on unsurfaced roads,
or stabilized with high cement content in the case of surfaced roads. As a consequence, unsurfaced roads
tended to fail within six months and cement stabilization of surfaced roads led to many construction-related
problems and substantial maintenance difficulties.

DNEP/ANE undertook an extensive applied research program in order to find an effective use of the
extensively occurring substandard base materials. The objective was to improve the engineering properties
of these materials so that they could be used as base material and at the same time permit maintenance of
the road network with labor-intensive methods. Extensive laboratory testing was followed by trial sections
which were monitored. The results enabled ANE to prepare and implement its own specifications for
low-volume sealed roads using these substandard materials. The results have been presented internationally,
and will be applied during Roads 3 permitting more efficient and effective rehabilitation and maintenance of
the road network.

Development of Local Contractors: Similarly, considerable effort was put into the development of the local
construction industry, especially following the identification of this particular constraint. Approximately 50


                                                    - 22 -

mainly small and medium contracting enterprises were trained under this initiative. Although the initiative
was quite successful, the difficulties faced by nescient small contractors were identified, including that
contractors were not given sufficient time or work to facilitate their development to "independence". Again,
this lesson has been incorporated into Roads-3. One exception to this was CETA which is now functioning
successfully as a local contractor, following its privatization.

Studies and Technical Assistance: Under ROCS-2 numerous studies were undertaken, the results of which
contributed to increased institutional capacity. Notable were the Integrated Road Sector Strategy for
Mozambique, the Financial Management Systems Development and Implementation Study, and the
Environment Impact Assessment for the Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program, all
three of which served as foundations for the development of the follow-on project, Roads and Bridges
Management and Maintenance Programme (RBMMP). In addition, the HNMS, noted above, was
developed and implemented; two roughness and road condition surveys were implemented, and several
social-economic studies were undertaken. Considerable technical assistance was also funded under ROCS-2
, including specialists in pavements, materials, highways, bridges, contracts management and training (all
under IDA funding), and several other specialists working in regional roads funded by other donors.

2.       Assessment of Borrower's Performance

Overall, the performance of the Borrower should be rated as very good, especially considering that one
hundred percent of the credit was utilized as planned and amended during the course of the project. As
noted above, many of the targets were explicitly achieved or even surpassed. And the ability of the
implementing agency, DNEP/ANE, to respond to shortcomings and problems in collaboration with the
major donors, including the World Bank, should be seen as an accomplishment in its own right. The major
areas of shortcomings deserve special attention in order to continue improvements in performance in the
future.

2.1      ANE's Technical Performance

Institutional Transition Effects: The necessary time to transform the DNEP into ANE probably should have
been recognized from the start. The changes in institutional structure, the preparation of internal
regulations, the appointment of staff and, last but not least, the delay in establishing market related salaries
certainly limited the positive impacts to some degree. Regardless, the performance of ANE as a roads
management institution today is vastly improved over the role of DNEP at the initiation of ROCS-2. The
lesson learned would seem to be that such transition effects need to be considered and catered for in project
design.

Management Capacity Constraints: As a result of the rapid recovery of the Mozambican economy, the
emphasis placed on the road sector and a general shortage of suitably experienced personnel, some
personnel assigned to this sector have been required to perform in positions for which they have not been
adequately trained. Although the development of ANE's management skills and capabilities was a critical
goal of both ROCS-1 and ROCS-2, the competing pressures of developing a cadre of engineers and actual
implementation of the program during its early days made it difficult to dedicate the resources necessary
(especially the scarce time of DNEP/ANE's senior management) to ensure the rapid achievement of this
goal. This is a matter of comparing the objectively "good" performance against potential. Management
constraints had their most significant impacts in delays in implementing the project, procurement, and in
some of the various errors built into a number of the earlier projects. The project recognized the needs and
by end of ROCS-2, increased management training was incorporated into the institutional strengthening
component, and is also a targeted objective in Roads-3.


                                                     - 23 -

Attrition of Trained Staff: As noted above, despite the substantial improvements in DNEP/ANE staff
capacity, one further constraint on the implementing agency's ability to function more efficiently was the
transfer and loss of staff which benefited from both formal and on-the-job training, out of the organization.
While ANE has served the useful function of providing "trained" personnel for the general government
structure and the private sector, this problem is likely to continue for the foreseeable future until such time
as Mozambique has sufficient suitably qualified personnel or ANE can offer compensation packages that
rival the private sector options available to the most capable personnel. This "fact of life" must be taken
into account in future designs.

Appropriate Skills Mix and Personnel Management: Related to the points raised above, despite a much
improved staff, at project close, ANE still lacks sufficient qualified and motivated personnel to undertake
many of the required functions, particularly in the areas of contract management, planning, and finance.
This suggests the importance of developing a human resource program appropriate to a roads management
organization. In the future, staffing plans and development activities will need to be more responsive to the
roads management requirements and the responsibilities of ANE and the Road Fund (as opposed to pure
engineering activities). The institutional reforms that created ANE have given the agency the necessary
autonomy and flexibility to implement personnel policies that can establish a climate of responsibility,
accountability and delivery for all levels of personnel, with commensurate rewards. Recognizing this,
Roads-3 has been designed to improve these shortcomings.

Technical Assistance: During the implementation of ROCS-2, the lack of required skills among
DNEP/ANE staff necessitated the use of technical assistants for specific line functions. In general, the
technical assistance component of ROCS-2 performed well in filling gaps in staff competencies, especially
in the areas of procurement and contract management. This led to the situation where, although local staff
lack the specific skills required to undertake their jobs, technical assistants did not have the time to properly
focus on technological transfer component of technical assistance because of the pressures to deliver
immediate results. Now that ANE has substantially improved local staff capacity, the technical assistance
component of Roads-3 will be able to focus more effectively on developing local capabilities through more
technology transfer and mentoring roles.

2.2      ANE's Financial and Administrative Performance

The DCA required ANE to maintain records and accounts in a manner which would permit reporting on
resources and expenditures in accordance with sound accounting practices. In addition the DCA required
that the records and accounts for each fiscal year be audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA. ANE complied with these requirements.

The DCA also included an implementation program, which planned for the strengthening of ANE's
financial information and technology systems, financial management and accounting procedures.

In support of the implementation of the program, ANE, in 1999, implemented a new Financial Management
System (FMS) which included an advanced computer accounting system, by SunSystems, which was
finally installed in 2002. The system is configured to facilitate Project Management Reports (PMR) as
required by IDA..

The development and installation of the FMS was a major accomplishment of ROCS-2. It puts ANE in the
position of being able to better manage performance through finance-based reporting as opposed to pure
technical (engineering) reporting. ANE's experience with the FMS has pointed out two areas which do


                                                      - 24 -

require additional strengthening. First, senior management must become accustomed to requesting and
using the output of the FMS. Secondly, the administrative unit responsible for operating the FMS continues
to suffer from a lack of qualified personnel, notably at the level of senior accountants. Such skills are in
short supply nationally, and the competition for these services is intense. As a result, ANE does not have
sufficient capacity to carry out in a timely manner some basic accounting and finance functions such as
account reconciliations, project tracking, and budgeting, all of which are included in the FMS. These
constraints are similar to the challenges that arose on the technical side (implementation and effective use of
the HNMS for example) and are being given high priority in Roads-3.

In general, however, ANE's financial and administrative performance must be considered very satisfactory,
most especially when compared to capabilities and performance at the start of ROCS-2. For example, ANE
is now capable of independently producing timely preparation of Replenishment Requests and other
Withdrawal Applications, preparation of accounts for Audit and submission of Audit Reports to IDA. ANE
has also prepared an operating procedure for the assignment and handling of Government of Mozambique
counterpart funds.

2.3      GOM Performance

The Government of Mozambique, through the Letter of Sector Policy, committed itself to finance about
US$169 million of ROCS-2 expenditures. This included 100 % of the routine maintenance and an
increasing share of the periodic maintenance over the life of the project estimated at US$114 million. An
additional US$10.5 annually was committed to cover the emergency and rehabilitation part of ROCS-2
That the Government met its overall commitment can be seen by the fact that total Government
contributions to ROCS-2 totaled US$176.8 million, i.e., almost US$ 8 million in excess of the planned
amount.

The counterpart funds for maintenance were generated via a fuel levy and general user charges and
accessed via the Road Fund. These funds pass through the Ministry of Finance, and for reasons of
macroeconomic constraints, the Government was not always able to fulfill its obligations in a timely
transfer of funds to the Road Fund. The effect of the above delays did have an impact on the
implementation of maintenance activities, a result that has been recognized and has been addressed in the
planning for Roads-3, in which the Government has committed itself to specific timely transfer of resources
to the Road Fund.

The Road Fund and ANE were separated in mid 2003. It is hoped that the measures taken to secure timely
and necessary funding for the future Road Programme will avoid the problems. These include, but are not
limited to, the strengthening of ANE and Road Fund's project management capacity and the allocation of
the Government of Mozambique's counterpart funds in dedicated accounts prior to the effectiveness of next
Road Programme.

One additional area that has had an impact on project performance concerns the introduction of Value
Added Tax. In consequence of the introduction of the VAT system in June 1999, the Government
introduced a promissory note system for the payment of VAT charged to ANE by Contractors. In principle,
the promissory note system as designed should have functioned adequately. However, in practice it has
caused difficulties that have resulted in inordinate payment delays and consequent claims for interest on late
payments. The Government is currently modifying the system in an effort to remedy the problems so as to
avoid transferring the impact of delayed payments onto the pricing of future projects.

3.       Financiers' Performance


                                                     - 25 -

The ROCS-2 Project was financed by both donor and lender agencies, including IDA which assumed an
overall coordinating role of the various agencies, for the macroeconomic aspects of the project and that of
supervising their own element of the project. In general the coordination and performance of the various
funding agencies was very satisfactory.

ANE has established and leads a donor coordination program which includes as a regime of quarterly
meetings between ANE and the financiers. These meetings follow agendas that are determined by ANE but
which also include matters suggested by the donors as a group or individually. These are occasions for
ANE to convey to donors its strategies, plans, and performance reports. Meetings have also focused on
specific issues such as emergency works. At these meetings donors are able to raise issues that they would
like to see addressed. ANE intends to continue and expand this coordination by also implementing regular
less formal forums where donors can discuss technical matters with ANE professionals. It is expected that
this will address some of the problems of coordination experienced during the implementation of ROCS-2.

3.1      Performance of the World Bank

The role of the World Bank in the implementation of the project included supervision, oversight, issuance of
prior approvals ("no objections") and formal reviews. The Borrower notes that the Bank and the teams
assigned to work with the Borrower performed well. The team worked in concert with DNEP and later
ANE staff to design ROCS-2 and later to refine the project as challenges and opportunities presented
themselves. A true sense of partnership developed between the staff of DNEP/ANE and World Bank team.

Three areas merit specific attention:

Supervisory Visits: These are the most essential forms of interaction between IDA personnel and the
Borrower's staff. These missions were well planned and quite effective, as can be seen from the record of
the Aide Memoires. The Borrower uses the Aide Memoires to formulate specific action plans from the
actions and measures which are contained in the Aide Memoire for each mission. From the Borrower's side,
staff were always made available as a priority to facilitate the missions' objectives. During ROCS-2, and
especially due to the capacity constraints facing DNEP/ANE, supervisory missions were fairly frequent.
These enabled the Borrower and World Bank team to work together to make adjustments to the program as
required.

Local Supervision: Most donors have local offices that deal with the implementation of their projects and
programs on a continuous basis. This has the advantage of permitting rapid and hands-on interaction
between the Borrower and the Funding Agencies, especially in the preparation of procurement approval
requests. For a short time, the World Bank had a local staff member assigned to assist ANE in the
implementation of the project, but otherwise, the local office of the World Bank has had limited
involvement in project implementation and planning. Given the size of the Bank's participation in the
project (and in the subsequent RBMMP) it would be helpful to have a full-time local contact which would
facilitate the Borrower's communication, adherence to procedures and submissions to IDA.

3.2      Performance of Other Donors

As it has been noted above, several funding agencies (donors and lenders) funded the Project. The Total
Project Cost was at about US$ 815 million, of this approximately US$ 772 million was made available to
the Government of Mozambique, by these agencies, for the execution of ROCS-2.




                                                    - 26 -

The major financial contributors to the project are detailed below (in million US$s):

   Financier        Planned     Actual                Financier     Planned      Actual
 ADB                    83.4       76.3           GOM                  169.0       176.8
 AFD                                 2.3          IDA                  188.0       182.3
 ASDI                                 36.2        IDB                                   3.7
 BADEA                   14.9         14.1        KfW                      9.0        37.1
 CFD/RSA                 17.0          0.2        KFAED                   14.0        18.3
 DFID                                  6.8        Phase II Donors        181.8        39.8
 EEC                    97.9       59.4           USAID                 25.0         92.0
 FRP Donors             14.6       26.6           Total                814.6       772.1



In general the performance of the other funding agencies was quite satisfactory. The presence in many cases
of local representatives, in general, greatly facilitated the implementation of these projects.

In contrast to IDA, a number of the other funding agencies utilize Banco de Mozambique to validate direct
disbursements to contractors. This introduces an additional level of bureaucracy which almost always leads
to additional delays and difficulties in obtaining information. In the future, ANE will encourage funding
agencies to either use the special bank account system, as used by IDA, or to make direct payments to the
Road Fund, in an attempt to reduce the problems and delays experienced.

4.        Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned from ROCS-2 would seem to be constructive ones. Commitment to the goals of
institutional strengthening and regulatory reform yielded generally very good results. The civil works
targets were largely attained as a result of program flexibility. But where problems have been identified, it
is clear that either more could have been accomplished, or at least accomplished sooner..

4.1       Project Design

The flexibility built into ROCS-2 was clearly an advantage, but one not likely to be easily replicated. At the
same time, the use of performance indicators in ROCS-2 which served as milestones and which assisted in
the revision and refinement of the program are also an integral part of the follow-on project, Roads-3.

The design of the project also included asymmetries in goals and objectives. In particular, the range of
outcomes over which the implementing agency, DNEP and later ANE, could reasonably be expected to
have command was somewhat limited. The regulatory reforms and sector financing were clearly beyond the
control of the ANE professionals and decision makers who were the main interlocutors with the World
Bank. It would be best to clearly distinguish which outcomes are directly under the control of the
implementing agency so as to have a clearer idea of controllable measures of project success.



4.2       ANE Performance




                                                       - 27 -

The Borrower believes that its overall performance has been good, as indicated in the sections above. Still,
it is recognized that the implementing agency, ANE, will be required to do more in the future, and to
perform at a higher level of efficiency. The lessons learned during the implementation of ROCS-2 will be
instrumental in this regard.

The main lesson learned from ROCS-2 would seem to be that strengthening institutional capacity through
the addition of trained engineering staff, organizational reforms, and development of tools such as HNMS,
are necessary but not necessarily sufficient conditions to effective roads management. The follow-on
project, Roads-3, will focus more on the management and planning side of capacity strengthening. In
particular, attention is being paid to the skill mix, making sure that, for instance, engineers are used to
achieve their full potential as engineers. This requires the recruitment and training of specialists in statistics,
transport economics, and administrative support.

The second generation of institutional reforms that have just been realized also put into practice lessons
learned from ROCS-2. ANE and the Road Fund have been split into to two separate administratively and
financially autonomous bodies, operating under the management of separate Boards of Directors. Each will
be better able to take advantage of their autonomy, authorities, and responsibilities in order to become more
efficient commercial and results-oriented institutions. Performance-based systems of management and
personnel remuneration are planned to be adopted by each, and this should go a long way to improving
sector management efficiency.

Better use of technical assistance is another important lesson coming out of ROCS-2. Previously, the
pressure to get projects implemented combined with the capacity constraints in DNEP/ANE necessitated
that technical assistants be used to fill in the skills gaps directly. But management recognizes that the cost
of this was somewhat slower development of local staff. In the future, technical assistance will be used
more for mentoring and technology transfer to ANE's professional staff, as a concerted effort will be made
to use technical assistance in a more balanced fashion.

On the civil works side, ANE's management recognizes that improved planning is required to ensure the
necessary balance among routine maintenance, periodic maintenance and rehabilitation interventions. At the
same time, it is recognized that since this also crucially depends on assured and timely sources of funding,
ANE and the Road Fund will strive to coordinate their funding and implementation planning.



4.3      GOM Performance

One of the key lessons learned from ROCS-2 is the importance of payments discipline. The Borrower is
committed to working with other Government organs to ensure the Government's timely adherence to their
funding commitments and improvements in VAT payment procedures. It is recognized that failure to do so
will almost certainly lead to delays, some shortfalls in achieving targets (which are more time-based in
Roads-3), and even higher unit costs.

Several measures are being proposed to deal with these issues. Attempts are being made to have fuel levies
and user charges paid directly to the Road Fund rather than via the Ministry of Planning and Finance,
which would greatly alleviate the current funding problems. Also, the next project requires a financial
contribution from the Government's capital budget for certain works. This distinction should make it easier
for the Government to identify its specific targets and to comply with their commitment in this regard.




                                                       - 28 -

4.4     Funding Agency Performances

Access to the agencies via locally based representatives greatly facilitated the implementation of projects
where these representatives were given sufficient authority, which, in general, was the case. Certain of the
finding agencies have made changes to their local structures and this is seen as a positive step for the
implementation of the next project.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Co-financiers were consulted during the ICR mission and their views taken into account in drafting the
ICR. The draft final ICR was sent by fax to four of the major donor representatives in Maputo,
Mozambique, on December 2 requesting their comments by December 15. However, no comments were
received from the cofinanciers by December 29, 2003.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

None.




                                                  - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
              Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Amendment of Road Fund regulations.        100%                                100% completed
Creation of the Road Board.                100%                                100% completed
Creation of DNEP as an independant Road    100%
Authority.
Housing policy agreed by MOPH and in       100%                                100% completed
place,
Proposal for a sustainable and self-funded 100%                                100% completed
ChimoioTraining center.
Legalization of ECMEPs as commercial       100%                                100% completed
contractors.
85 % of the paved network and 60% of       85%                                 78%
upaved roads in good and fair condition.   60%                                 56%
Cumulative training of 2,500 persons.      100%                                100%
Completion of the design standards study.  100%                                50%
Implementation of the Highway Network      100%                                100%
Management System.
Bridge inspection system in place.         100%                                100%


Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
              Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Completion of the rehabilitation of the    180 km                              69 km
Quelimane-Namacurra road.
Completion of 70% of the 2,400 km Rural    1600 km                             6,106.6 km of rural roads completed
Road Program.
Completion of a 530 km periodic            530 km                              434 km periodic maintenance completed
maintenance program.
13,000 km of roads under routine           13,000 km                           13,000 km of roads under routine maintaince
maintenance (10,500km by local contractors
including ECMEPs).
Construction of 24 houses                  24 houses                           24 houses completed
Creation of 40 small local contractors.    40 local contractors                40+ contractors +Association created

1End of project




                                                             - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                              Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                              US$ million     US$ million
Road Network Rehabilitation and Maintenance                     654.40         699.66          106.3
Engineering Services                                             45.70          38.40             84
Institutional Development                                        12.50          38.20          305.6

Total Baseline Cost                                             712.60         776.26
 Physical Contingencies                                          54.40
 Price Contingencies                                             47.60
                         Total Project Costs                    814.60         776.26
                   Total Financing Required                     814.60         776.26
Actual IDA disbursements as of June 23, 2003, difference is due to rounding.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB               NCB                   2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                     Other
1. Works                          196.10            26.70            10.00        513.80      746.60
                                 (140.50)          (12.50)           (5.86)        (0.00)    (158.86)
2. Goods                           4.00              0.00             1.60         5.90       11.50
                                  (4.00)            (0.00)           (1.60)        (0.00)     (5.60)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00            22.30         32.90      55.20
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (22.30)       (0.00)     (22.30)
4. Refund of PPF                   0.00              0.00             0.00         1.50        1.50
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)        (1.50)     (1.50)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00              0.00             0.00         0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00              0.00             0.00         0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                          200.10            26.70            33.90        554.10      814.80
                                 (144.50)          (12.50)           (29.76)       (1.50)    (188.26)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB                   2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                     Other
1. Works                          411.62           211.79            76.25         0.00      699.66
                                 (84.26)           (54.43)          (10.34)       (0.00)    (149.03)
2. Goods                          33.37              6.56             6.43         0.00      46.36
                                  (4.65)            (0.00)           (2.34)       (0.00)     (6.99)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00            29.96         0.00      29.96
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (29.96)       (0.00)     (29.96)
4. Refund of PPF                   0.00              0.00             0.18         0.00       0.18


                                                 - 31 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.18)            (0.00)           (0.18)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.10             0.00              0.10
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               444.99            218.35            112.92             0.00             776.26
                                           (88.91)           (54.43)           (42.92)            (0.00)          (186.26)
   Difference is due to rounding. Data valid as of October 31, 2003.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Road Network                   157.33       168.55      424.75       149.03       176.80     373.96      94.7     104.9     88.0
Rehabilitation and
Maintenance
Engineering Services           17.25         0.00        32.90       32.16         0.00       6.24       186.4     0.0      19.0
Institutional Development      13.42         0.45         0.00        5.07         0.00      33.03       37.8      0.0       0.0

   Actual IDA amounts are as of June 23, 2003. CoF represent aggregate figures. Total may not add due to
   rounding.




                                                           - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

POST-EVALUATION OF ROCS ROADS


Introduction

The post-construction evaluation of six selected roads from the ROCS2 program and the selected roads,
and works performed, were as follows:

        Maputo ­ Namaacha                  75 km Part reconstruction, part overlay
        Marracuene ­ Manhica               48 km Widening and overlay
        Chonguene ­ Chibuto                52 km Upgrade to paved surface
        Inchope ­ Gorongosa                73 km Part reconstruction, part periodic maintenance
        Gorongosa ­ Caia                  224 km Mostly new construction
        Pemba ­ Montepuez                 202 km Reconstruction.

Principal donors financing the construction works included the Kuwait Fund, IDA, African Development
Bank, USAID and BADEA. IDA was the principal financier for Marracuene-Manhica, and also funded the
design for Chonguene-Chibuto and Pemba-Montepuez. As shown in the list above, works on the different
roads ranged from periodic maintenance to new construction.

Methodology

The six projects have been broadly evaluated on the basis of data available within ANE concerning
construction costs, periodic maintenance costs, past and present road condition, traffic flows, and vehicle
operating costs. For two roads (Marracuene-Manhica and Pembe-Montepuez) previous feasibility studies
were available, but for the other roads no such studies could be located.

The economic evaluations followed the same procedure as is used in HDM-4, whereby project-related
capital and periodic maintenance costs are compared with economic benefits resulting from vehicle
operating cost reductions. It was decided, however, not to include details of routine maintenance costs,
which in practice account for comparatively small elements of the typical overall cash flow.

HDM-4 automatically calculates deteriorations in road roughness resulting from traffic levels and forecast
maintenance activities. Since HDM-4 was not used in this study, it was necessary to make assumptions
about rates of road deterioration in terms of International Roughness Indicator (IRI) values between
successive years. These assumptions, made in accordance with experience in other countries, are detailed in
the annexes for individual roads.

The evaluations have been performed using economic values at 2003 prices for all costs and benefits. For
the four roads receiving periodic maintenance or undergoing reconstruction, they have included fifteen
years of benefits, while for the two roads involved in upgrading or major new construction the benefit
period has been extended to twenty years. These benefit periods are in accordance with standard practice.

While these evaluations are post-evaluations in the sense that they take place after completion of
construction, they are still made at a time when benefits will continue to be enjoyed for many years to
come. Although based on the latest available information, they thus remain as being no more than best
assessments of the economic viability levels likely to be achieved in practice.



                                                    - 33 -

Detailed methodological assumptions and results for individual roads are set out in Annexes 1 to 6 (project
file)

Data Sources

Capital Costs

Capital costs were based on actual expenditure figures supplied by ANE. These figures were generally split
into design, construction and supervision components, and were stated to exclude value added tax (VAT).
On the basis of economic pricing assumptions set out in previous consultancy reports (including those on
project roads by Roughton International and Louis Berger), the values were further reduced by 10 per cent
to reflect shadow pricing of labour and other input factors.

Capital costs were all quoted by ANE in US dollars. Values were converted to 2003 prices by assuming
dollar inflation at 3 per cent per annum.

Periodic Maintenance Costs

Standard costs of periodic maintenance on a paved road (typically for a reseal every seven years) were
given by ANE as US$ 61,500 per kilometre. This figure was at 2003 prices. On the basis of available
earlier consultancy reports, it was assumed that this figure should be multiplied by a factor of 0.75 to give
an economic value. The economic cost of periodic maintenance was therefore taken to be US$ 46,125 per
km.

Road Condition Data

     Data on road surface and condition were available from the Sweroad road condition survey of 1995.
This survey predated all the six projects except for the Maputo-Namaacha road, where works started at the
end of 1993. It classified all road sections on the main and secondary network as being `paved, gravel or
earth', and as having surface condition which was `good, fair, poor, bad or impassable'. For practical
purposes it was assumed that for paved roads these surface conditions could be equated to the following
IRI values for road roughness:

         Good               2.0
         Fair               4.0
         Poor               7.0
         Bad               12.0.

Verbal descriptions were also obtained from senior ANE engineers on pre-project conditions of the various
roads. Finally, data on road roughness (in IRI) were obtained from the mid-2003 Roughton International
inventory of the road network. The detailed current data by 100-metre section for the Marracuene-Manhica
and Chonguene-Chibuto roads is in project file.




                                                    - 34 -

Traffic Data

Traffic data are gathered by counts, on an annual or less frequent basis, at a number of designated count
stations around the country. These data are then used to prepare annual estimates of average daily traffic
(ADT) on individual sections of all roads on the classified network. Estimates for road sections where no
count has been conducted are generally made on the basis of interpolation between traffic levels recorded at
adjacent count stations.

Print-outs giving traffic flows for all six roads under study (and also, where thought relevant, for possible
parallel routes) were obtained for the years 1995 to 2003 inclusive. Some data for 2003 were not yet
available.

Since traffic counts are not made in all years at all of the count stations, some results in count station
sections are themselves estimates, often made by applying a growth rate to the figures of a previous
counting year. It is therefore not always possible to know whether the flow given for a particular year and
section is actual or estimated, and the figures are therefore sometimes confusing, especially as they often
show large variations from year to year. Some care is therefore required in interpreting the ANE traffic
data.

On roads where consultants' feasibility reports were available, it was possible to cross-check data from
these reports with those from the ANE information system. This proved useful for the
Marracuene-Manhica and Pemba-Montepuez roads.

It was thus possible to make reasonable estimates of traffic flows and growth rates over the past few years
on the various project roads. In preparing traffic estimates for use in the computation of benefits, four
vehicle types were defined, namely light vehicles (cars, pick-ups and minibuses), buses, medium trucks (2/3
axles), and large trucks (4 or more axles). Agricultural tractors, also specified in the ANE traffic counts,
were excluded from these estimates, as tractors are unlikely to generate significant vehicle operating cost
savings.




                                                    - 35 -

Vehicle Operating Costs

Standardized vehicle operating costs (VOCs) are maintained by ANE, and a print-out of the latest version
was obtained. Results are shown in meticais per vehicle-km for the four vehicle types specified in the
previous section. The costs provided were stated to relate to the year 1997.

In order to convert the meticais costs to US dollars at 2003 prices, they were firstly converted to 1997
dollars at the appropriate exchange rate for that year of M 11,404 to the dollar, and then multiplied to
reflect six years of dollar inflation by the factor,

         (1.03)6 = 1.19405.

The VOCs are specified for a wide range of road roughness values, and results were extracted for the four
vehicle types and for IRI values between 2.0 and 12.0 (corresponding to the range between `good' and
`bad' surfaces). They include passenger and cargo time costs, which amount to approximately 10 per cent
of the total for light vehicles and buses, but to less than 1 per cent for the goods vehicles.

Summary of Results

Details of the evaluations and results for individual roads are set out in Annexes 1 to 6 (Project file). Table
1 presents a summary of results for all six roads, giving brief project details including capital costs, plus a
set of feasibility indicators including Net Present Value (NPV), Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR) and Economic
Rate of Return (ERR). All costs and benefits are expressed in 2003 US dollar prices, and all discounted
values are discounted at a test rate of 12 per cent per annum to the first year of construction.

It may be seen that five of the six roads show ERR values exceeding 12 per cent, with a range from 12.8 to
57.6 per cent. The exception is the Gorongosa-Caia road, where the indicated rate of return is 10.6 per
cent, a short way below the 12 per cent benchmark. Since much of this road did not exist when construction
started in 2000, and since a copy of the earlier feasibility study document was not available, assumptions
made may well have been conservative. This road will in practice constitute a vital link in the country's
main north-south highway, and may yield substantial development benefits in the longer term, especially
once the Zambezi river has been bridged at Caia, as is currently planned.




                                                       - 36 -

Table 1. Summary of Economic Feasibility Results for Selected ROCS Roads

                                      Maputo/        Marracuene/   Chonguene/ road:

                                      Namaacha       Manhica       Chibuto

Length (km)                                75           48           52
Works performed                              Reconstruct/   Widening and
                                      Overlay              overlay  Upgrading
Construction period                       1994-97          1995-96     1998-99
Benefit period                         1998-2012        1997-2011      2000-19
Economic capital cost (a) (US$ mn)         26.216            6.209       5.512
Econ. cap. cost per km (US$ `000)               350           129          106


Discounted capital cost (b) (US$ mn)     - 29.008          - 7.237     - 6.050
Discounted periodic maint. costs (b)
                         (US$ mn)        -   1.633         - 1.159     - 1.407
Discounted benefits (b)    (US$ mn)        48.539           48.107      11.481

Net Present Value (b)    (US$ mn)          17.898           39.711       4.024
Benefit-Cost Ratio                            1.62            6.49        1.67
Economic Rate of Return (% p. a.)            18.8              57.6       20.1


                                      Inchope/              Gorongosa/    Pemba/
        Road:                         Gorongosa      Caia          Montepuez

Length (km)                                    73            224           202
Works performed                              Reconstruct/
                                      Periodic maint.   New road   Reconstruct
Construction period                       2001-03         2000-03      2000-02
Benefit period                            2004-18         2004-23      2003-17
Economic capital cost (a) (US$ mn)           9.572      54.000 (c)      33.941
Econ. cap. cost per km (US$ `000)            130              241         168


Discounted capital cost (b) (US$ mn)       - 8.838       - 48.234     - 32.775
Discounted periodic maint. costs (b)
                         (US$ mn)          - 1.773       -  4.832     -  4.890
Discounted benefits (b)    (US$ mn)        11.145          46.934       54.090

Net Present Value (b)    (US$ mn)            0.534       -  6.132       16.425
Benefit-Cost Ratio                            1.06            0.87       1.50
Economic Rate of Return (% p. a.)            12.8             10.6      18.5




                                               - 37 -

Notes: (a) Taken as 90 % of construction costs net of VAT
         (b) Revalued at 2003 prices, and discounted to first construction year at 12 % p.a.
         (c) Estimated cost including provision for outstanding claims.

Sensitivity Analysis

Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to assess the effect on feasibility indicators if benefits are for any
reason reduced. The implications of a 20 per cent benefit reduction have been examined for all roads.

For most roads capital costs are already known, and no assessment is therefore made of the effect of a
change in costs. The exception is for the Gorongosa-Caia road, where a large claim from the contractor is
still outstanding. For this road additional cases are examined in which financial costs to be paid in 2003 are
either increased or reduced by US$ 5.0 million. (These cases thus assume total financial capital costs
excluding VAT of US$ 65.0 million and US$ 55.0 million respectively). Following the convention of the
main analysis that economic costs are equivalent to 90 per cent of financial costs excluding VAT, it is
assumed that the two cases correspond to an increase or decrease in economic capital costs of US$ 4.5
million. Results are presented in Table 2.




                                                      - 38 -

Table 2. Results of Sensitivity Analysis

(NPVs in US$ million at 2003 prices discounted at 12 % p.a. to first year of construction)


                                               NPV               BCR              ERR
                                               (US$ mn)                           (% p.a.)

1. Base Results

Maputo-Namaacha                                  17.898           1.617               18.8
Marracuene-Manhica                               39.711           6.487               57.6
Chonguene-Chibuto                                  4.024          1.665               20.1
Inchope-Gorongosa                                  0.534          1.060               12.8
Gorongosa-Caia                                 (6.132)           0.873                10.6
Pemba-Montepuez                                  16.425           1.501               18.5

2. Reduce Benefits by 20 %

Maputo-Namaacha                                    8.190          1.282               15.2
Marracuene-Manhica                               30.090           5.158               48.7
Chonguene-Chibuto                                  1.728          1.286               15.4
Inchope-Gorongosa                               ( 1.695)          0.808                9.5
Gorongosa-Caia                                 (15.519)           0.678                8.2
Pemba-Montepuez                                    5.607          1.171               14.1

3. Additional Results (Gorongosa-Caia)

(a) Financial cost reduced by US$ 5.0 mn

Benefits as forecast                            ( 2.929)          0.935               11.2
Benefits reduced by 20 %                        (12.316)          0.726                8.8

(b) Financial cost increased by US$ 5.0 mn

Benefits as forecast                            ( 9.335)          0.819                9.8
Benefits reduced by 20 %                        (18.722)          0.636                7.6




                                                 - 39 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/1990                   1    Transport planner (1);
              06/1990                   3    Transport planner (1); highway
                                             engineer (1); port engineer (1);
              12/1990                   2    Highway engineer 91); training
                                             specialist(1)
              05/1991                   2    Highway engineer (1); training
                                             specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/23/1993                6    Financial analyst/mission
                                             leader (1); operation officer
                                             (1); highway engineer (1);
                                             civil engineer (1);
                                             procurement specialist (1);
                                             environmental specialist (1)

 Supervision
              06/10/1994                5    Financial analyst/mission
                                             leader (1); operation officer
                                             (1); environmental specialist
                                             (1); economist (1); training
                                             specialist (1)
              04/28/1995                5    Engineer (1); highway engineer         S               S
                                             (1); training specialist (1);
                                             administration (1);
                                             finance/economics specialist (1)
              03/11/1996                3    Engineer (2); finance/economics        S               S
                                             specialist (1)
              04/07/1997                3    Co-team leader (1); team leader        S               S
                                             (1); project assistant (1)
              07/12/1997                3    Co-team leader (2); project            S               S
                                             assistant (1)
              10/03/1997                2    Team leader (1); project assistant     S               S
                                             (1)
              04/03/1998                3    Team leader (1); engineer (1);         S               S
                                             project assistant (1)
              07/17/1998                3    Team leader (1); engineer (1);         S               S
                                             project assistant (1)
              10/15/1998                3    Team leader (1); project assistant     S               S
                                             (1); engineer (1)
              02/05/1999                5    Team leader (1); engineer (1);         S               S
                                             project assistant (1); senior
                                             operations officer (1); senior
                                             highway engineer (1)
              07/26/1999                6    Team leader (1); senior                S               S
                                             operations officer (2); engineer



                                              - 40 -

                                            (1); consultant (1); principal
                                            transport economist (1)
               12/18/1999              7    Team leader (1); engineer (1);         S    S
                                            consultant (4); lead specialist (1)
               04/07/2000              3    Team leader (1); engineer (1);         S    S
                                            consultant (1)
               10/07/2000              2    Engineer (1); financial specialist     S    S
                                            (1)
               03/06/2001              2    Operations officer (1); senior         S    S
                                            highway engineer (1)
               07/25/2001              2    Team leader (1); highway               S    S
                                            engineer (1);
               12/08/2001              2    Task team leader (1); financial        S    S
                                            management specialist (1);
               02/22/2002              2    Team leader (1); financial             S    S
                                            management specialist (1)
               07/19/2002              3    Senior highway engineer (TTL)          S    S
                                            (1); Financial management
                                            specialist (consultant) (1); liaison
                                            officer (1);
               04/14/2003              2    Team leader (1); Financial             S    S
                                            management specialist
                                            (consultant) (1)

 ICR
               08/05/2003             2      Operations officer (1);               S    S
                                             economist (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            31.4                                96.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 37.2                               118.5
  Supervision                        208.22                            1,104.53
  ICR                                     5.0                              10.00
  Total                              281.82                            1,329.13
As of August 25, 2003




                                            - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        AIDS Awareness
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, The Republic of Mozambique, Second Roads and Costal
Shipping Project, March 15, 1994.

The World Bank, Mozambique First Road and Coastal Shipping Project, Staff Appraisal Report, May 6,
1992.

The World Bank, Memorandum and Recommendations of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors of the Proposed Credit of SDR 136.2 million to the Republic of
Mozambique for a Second Roads and Coastal Shipping Project, March 15. 1994.

The World Bank, Review of the Performance of the Roads and Coastal Shipping Projects, June 12, 1998.

Nampula, The Northern Region, Feeders Programme, Annual Progress Report , 1998, February 1999.

The World Bank, First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project, ICR, June 29, 2000.

CETA S.A.R.L, Company Overview, 1992-2002,

QAG, Summary Assessment Sheet, August 5, 1999

QAG, Summary Assessment Sheet, not dated.




                                                 - 44 -

- 45 -

