CREDIT NUMBER 2599 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Roads and Coastal Shipping Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       4     A         , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2599 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         O%4'      \ \ C     , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the ?roject;
(B)   the Association has received from the Borrower a Letter
of Sector Policy (LSP) dated February 10, 1994, describing a program
of actions, objectives and policies designed to implement its
national road rehabilitation and maintenance program (the Program)
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of said
Program;
(C)   the  Borrower   intends  to   contract  from   Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA) a grant (the SIDA Grant) to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the SIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and SIDA;
(D)   the  Borrower   intends  to   contract  from   African
Development Bank (AfDB) a credit (the AfDB Credit) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the AfDB Credit Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and AfDB;
(E)   the Borrower intends to contract from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) a grant (the USAID
Grant) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement (the USAID Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and USAID;
(F)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) a grant (KFW Grant) to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(KFW Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
KFW;
(G)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) a credit (the BADEA Credit)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set


﻿-2-
forth in an agreement (the BADEA Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and BADEA;
(H)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Community (EC) a grant (the EC Grant) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
EC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EC;
(I)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait
Development Fund (KDF) a credit (the KDF Credit) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Kuwait Credit Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and KDF;
(J)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Caisse
Frangaise de D6veloppement (CFD) a grant (the CFD Grant) to assist
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the CFD Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and CFD; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"  of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "DEP"1 means Departamento de Estradas e Pontes, the
Department of Roads and Bridges of DNEP;


﻿-3-
(b)   "DNEP" means Direccao Nacional de Estradas e Pontes, the
National Directorate of Roads and Bridges of the Ministry of
Construction and Water of the Borrower;
(c)   "ECMEP" means Empresa de Construcao e Manutencao de
Estradas e Pontes, any of the state enterprises for construction and
maintenance of roads and bridges operating at the provincial level;
(d)  "'MCA" means Ministerio da Construcao e Aguas, Ministry
of Construction and Water of the Borrower;
(e)   "Project  Preparation   Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant tc :xchange of letters dated November 21, 1991 and December
18, 1991;
(f)   "fiscal year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31;
(g)   "Project Year" means each period of twelve months,
corresponding to the Borrower's FY, beginning the first Project Year
on the Effective Date;
(h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(i)   "Key Project Staff" means the staff responsible for
Project implementation referred to under Part A of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement;
(j)   "Road Fund" means Fundo Dara a Manutencao de Estradas e
Pontes, the Borrower's fund designed to finance the rehabilitation
and maintenance works of roads and bridges established and operating
pursuant to its Statutes (Estatuto Organico do Fundo para a
Manutencao de Estradas e Pontes) approved by Decree No. 45/89, dated
December 28, 1989 and by Decree No. 25/93 dated November 16, 1993;
(k)   "Performance Indicators" means indicators designed to
measure the Borrower's performance in achieving Project objectives,
as agreed between the Borrower and the Association and referred to
in Section 3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement;


﻿-4-
(1)   "Institutional Action Plan" means the monitorable
targets to be met by the Borrower, deemed as satisfactory progress
in the implementation of the Program, as set forth under Part B of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)   "CETA"  means  CETA  Obras  de   Engenharia,E.E.  the
Borrower's enterprise established and operating under its Statutes
approved by the Borrower's Decree No. 14/90, dated August 14, 1990;
(n)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance; and
(o)   "LOC" or "Letter of Commitment" means the letter
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred thirty-six million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 136,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause DNEP to open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against setoff,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. DNEP shall have full authority to
manage the Special Account.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of


﻿- 5 -
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on July 1 and January 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each July 1 and January 1 commencing
July 1, 2004 and ending January 1, 2034. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 1, 2014 shall be one


﻿-6-
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through DNEP
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, engineering and transportation practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.


﻿-7-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of Section 3.01, and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all
necessary measures to make available in a timely manner resources
required for the Project that are consistent with the mechanisms and
funding amounts set forth in the Letter of Commitment of Local
Resources (LOC), dated December 30, 1993 to the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not undertake any proposed investment in the road
sector, estimated to cost more than:
(a)   $4,000,000 (four million dollars) equiValent, unless:
(i)   the   Borrower  has   submitted   the   proposed
investment to the Association for its review and
comments; and
(ii)   the investment has an estimated economic rate of
return of at least 20% (twenty percent), taking
into account socio-economic criteria acceptable
to the Association; and
(b)   $1,000,000 (one million dollars) equivalent, unless the
Borrower has carried out an environmental assessment and prepared
and applied design standards and construction methods aimed at
minimizing possible adverse environmental impact, all in accordance
with environmental guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than September
1 prior to each succeeding fiscal year, submit to the Association,
for its review and comments, annual work plans covering the period
of 12 months commencing on the following January 1.


﻿-8-
(b)   Each work plan shall set out detailed proposals for the
carrying out of the Project and shall contain information
satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall make such revisions to such work
plans as may be appropriate having due regard to the comments
emanating from said review, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, carry out the Project in the year in question on
the basis of such work plans, as may have been so revised.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than September 30 of each year, until the
completion of the Project, carry out with the Association annual
Project implementation reviews, including a midterm review, by
September 30, 1995 to:
(i)  monitor, in accordance with the Program      and
Performance Indicators, progress achieved by the
Borrower in the implementation, inter alia, of
the following: (A) improvements in the policy,
legal and regulatory framework for the transport
sector; (B) scope and effectiveness of institu-
tional capacity building programs carried out
under the Project; (C) measures designed to
ensure appropriate transfer of technology to
local counterparts and the most efficient
utilization of technical assistance financed
under the Project; (D) performance achieved
during the current Project Year, pursuant to the
terms of the Program, with respect to road
maintenance and rehabilitation, and provision of
funding to finance road maintenance and rehabi-
litation works as set forth in the LOC; (E)
annual surveys of truckers and contractors; (F)
operation of the Special Account; and (G) overall
implementation of the Program;
(ii)   review with the Association on proposed budgetary
allocations for the upcoming Project Year to: (A)
finance  Project  recurrent  expenditures;  (B)
ensure timely provision of local counterpart
funds to the Project pursuant to the terms of the
LOC; and (C) bear the cost of the reimbursement


﻿-9-
of the Borrower's taxes applicable to foreign
consultant's contracts under the Project;
(iii)   identify  implementation   issues  and   propose
appropriate solutions;
(iv)   update Project timetables, the Implementation
Program and Performance Indicators; and
(v)   at the midterm review confirm and agree with the
Association on: (A) a detailed action program of
works to be carried out under Part A.1. (b) of
the Project; (B) a long term capacity building
program prepared on the basis of the results of a
detailed review of all institution building
initiatives carried out under Part B of the
Project; and (C) an action program prepared on
the basis of the results of the study of the
operations of the Road Fund.
(b)   Not later than four weeks prior to such annual and mid-
term reviews, furnish to the Association, for its review and
comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request, including an evaluation of progress achieved in
Project implementation in accordance with the Performance Indicators
and the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
(c)   Promptly after completing such reviews, carry out those
recommendations arising out of said reviews, as agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, until the completion of the
Project:
(a)   maintain institutional arrangements and Key Project
Staff, with such responsibilities for Project implementation, and
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association, as specified under Part A of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
(b)   appoint and maintain qualified local counterpart staff,
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association,
to closely work with, and receive training from the consultants


﻿- 10 -
contracted under the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2 of Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples  consistently  applied,  by  independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain,   or  cause   to  be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures;


﻿- 11 -
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
diture submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with  the   procedures  and  internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   that as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant
part thereof will be carried out;
(b)   that the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action that would materially affect the ability
of the DNEP to carry out its obligations under this Agreement;
(c)   the following shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to the
ability of the Borrower to finance the costs of road maintenance
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, in a timely and
efficient manner:


﻿- 12 -
(i)   Despacho, dated January 11, 1994 of the Ministry
of Construction and Water of the Borrower
delegating full management authority to the
National Director of DNEP; and
(ii)   Decree No. 45/89, dated December 28, 1989, and
Decree No. 25/93, dated November 16, 1993,
establishing the Road Fund.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of thirty (30) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor of Banco de Mocambique of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Mocambique
Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
P.O. Box 423
Maputo, Mozambique


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                Telex:
MOBANCO                   6576/7
Maputo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By  is) k-\\\pekK        z6i'Vo      P&    >o
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    PAS
Regional Vice  resident
Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works under:
(a) Part A.1 (a)          19,820,000        95%
(ii) of the
Project; and
(b) Part A.1 (b)          34,510,000        95%
(ii) of the
Project
(2) Civil Works under        28,000,000         90%
Parts A.1 (a) (i)
and A.1 (b) (i)
of the Project
(3) Incremental recur-
rent costs for
maintenance works
undertaken:
(a) in 1994, under        4,350,000         60%
Part A.1 (a)(iv)
of the Project;


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b) in 1995, under        3,990,000        50%
Part A.1 (a)(iv)
of the Project;
(c) under Part A.1 (b)   14,340,000        90%
(iv) of the Project
(4) Housing under                              90%
Part B.6 (b)
of the Project:
(a)                       1,160,000
(b)                       1,740,000
(5) Consultants' ser-
vices under:
(a) Parts B.1, B.2        2,370,000         100%
and B.3 of the
Project; and
(b) Parts A.2, A.3,      12,580,000         100%
A.4, B.4, and
B.5 of the
Project


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Vehicles and              3,790,000         100%
equipment
(7) Refunding of              1,090,000         Amounts due
Project                                     pursuant to
Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                     of this Agreement
(8)   Unallocated               8,460,000
TOTAL                    136,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "incremental recurrent costs" means the costs
of carrying out periodic maintenance works carried out by the
Borrower under Parts A.1 (a) (iv) and A.1 (b) (iv) of the Project in
accordance with technical, engineering and financial terms agreed
between the Borrower and the Association; and
(b)   the term "housing" means the costs of rehabilitating
existing infrastructures, construction of new buildings or importa-
tion of prefabricated units.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of five million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,800,000), may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 31,
1993;
(b)   Category (1) (b), unless the Association has received
evidence, satisfactory to it, confirming that the Borrower has
carried out the following: (A) implementation of the Institutional
Action Plan, in accordance with terms agreed between the Borrower


﻿- 17 -
and the Association and as set forth under Part B of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; (B) preparation of a detailed program of road
rehabilitation and maintenance as referred to under Part A.1(b) of
the Project, including the Borrower's commitment to make available
the necessary local counterpart funds pursuant to the terms of the
LOC; and (C) completion of detailed design, surveys and bidding
documents for works to be carried out during the Third Project Year;
(c)   Category (4) (a), unless the Association has received
documentary evidence, satisfactory to it, certifying:
(i)   DNEP's legal right to develop land for the
housing units financed under Part B.6 (b) of the
Project; and
(ii)   preparation  of  a plan   detailing  legal  and
financial mechanisms for the transfer of said
housing units to DNEP and DEP staff and repayment
by them;
(d)   Category (4) (b), unless the Association has received
documentary evidence, satisfactory to it, certifying:
(i)   DNEP's legal right to develop land for the
housing units financed under Part B.6 (b) of the
Project; and
(ii)   approval of the plan stipulated in (c) (ii)
above; and
(e)   Category (5) (a), unless the Borrower has submitted to
the Association for its approval, a long term capacity building
program for the road sector, satisfactory to the Association,
prepared on the basis of a detailed review of institution building
initiatives described under Part B of the Project.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods and works not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the
restoration of economic growth through the implementation of the
Project including: (a) road rehabilitation and maintenance; and (b)
strengthening institutional capacity within the Borrower's road
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Civil Works Programs
1.    Carrying out the Borrower's five-year civil works program for
road rehabilitation and maintenance in two phases:
(a)    First Phase: First and Second Project Years
(i)   implementation  of  an  emergency  civil works
program through: (A) rehabilitation and main-
tenance of paved and gravel roads and bridges
leading to key agricultural areas; (B) backlogged
maintenance on priority secondary roads; (C)
installation of Bailey-type bridges; and (D) road
signing;
(ii)   rehabilitation of paved trunk roads;
(iii)   rehabilitation and maintenance of secondary and
tertiary feeder roads in forty districts;
(iv)   carrying out periodic maintenance works on paved,
gravel and earth roads in good or fair condition;
and
(v)   provision of routine basic maintenance on paved,
gravel and earth roads in good or fair condition.
(b)   Second Phase: Third, Fourth and Fifth Project Years
(i)   Carrying out emergency works and road signing on
priority roads and bridges;


﻿- 19 -
(ii)   rehabilitation of priority trunk roads;
(iii)   rehabilitation and maintenance of secondary and
tertiary feeder roads;
(iv)   carrying  out  periodic maintenance   works  on
unpaved and paved roads; and
(v)   provision of routine basic maintenance on paved,
gravel and earth roads in good or Iair condition.
2.    Carryin- out of feasibility studies for the rehabilitation of
bridges and sections of major roads selected in agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
3.    Preparation of detailed engineering design for rehabilitation
works to be carried out during the Second Phase of the civil works
program referred to under Part A (1) (b) of this Schedule.
4.    Supervision of civil works program.
Part B:     Institution Building
1.    Strengthening of DNEP's managerial and technical capabilities
through the provision of general consultants' services.
2.    Strengthening of DEP's implementation capabilities through the
provision of specialized managerial and technical services.
3.    Strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities to elaborate and
implement training programs in the transport sector, through the
provision of specialized manpower development services.
4.    Development and strengthening of the local road contracting
industry.
5.    Formulation and implementation of an institutional development
program through the strengthening of the Borrower's:
(a)   managerial capabilities to address, inter alia, the
following issues: (i) sustainability of the Road Fund; and (ii)
financial and managerial autonomy of DNEP;
(b)   engineering capabilities to address, inter alia, bridge
engineering;


﻿- 20 -
(c)   axle-load control and road safety capacitiy, including,
inter alia, the provision of weigh bridges;
(d)   procurement management capabilities;
(e)   technical capabilities to define and strengthen the role
of the laboratory function; and
(f)   environmental analysis and monitoring capabilities.
6.    Strengthening of DNEP and the DEPs Project implementation
capabilities through: (a) acquisition of office equipment, vehicles
and basic laboratory equipment; (b) construction, rehabilitation,
equipping and furnishing of about forty housing units located in
Maputo and in the provincial capitals of the Borrower for DNEP and
DEP staff and consultants financed under the Project and selected in
agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $2,000,000 per contract or more, shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    Bidders for civil works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $10,000,000 (ten million dollars) shall be pre-
qualified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more.


﻿- 22 -
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local Competitive Bidding
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or
less per   contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  contribution  of  the
Association equivalent to $12,500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate contribution of the Association
equivalent to $1,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Local Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate contribution of the Association
equivalent to $240,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Direct Contracting
Civil works may be awarded after direct negotiations with
contractors, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association, on the basis of prices established by an independent
consultant in the case of: (i) emergency works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate


﻿- 23 -
contribution of the Association not to exceed $2,500,000; (ii) works
part of a local contractor development scheme estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate
contribution of the Association not to exceed $2,000,000; and (iii)
periodic maintenance contracts with ECMEP prior to their
registration, estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or less
per contract up to an aggregate contribution of the Association not
to exceed $1,200,000.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part (A) (1) (b) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for: (i) civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; and (ii) goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿- 24 -
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:     Project Implementation
1.    The Ministry of Construction and Water (MCA) through its
National Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DNEP) shall be
responsible for overall Project implementation.
2.    Key Project Staff
MCA shall designate the National Director of DNEP as the staff
responsible for Project implementation, and shall maintain the
following key staff: deputy national director(s) and the heads of
each department.
Part B:     Institutional Action Plan
1.    Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, prior to commencement of Part A.1 (b)
(ii) of the Project:
(a)   Complete the rehabilitation of about 6500 km of primary,
secondary and tertiary rural roads under Part A.1 (a)
(i) of the Project.
(b)   Complete the rehabilitation of 275 km of paved trunk
roads under Part A.1 (a) (ii) of the Project, with
contracts signed for 1000 km.
(c)   Complete periodic maintenance works on at least 500 km
of paved roads and 1500 km of unpaved roads under Part
A.1 (a) (iv) of the Project.
(d)   Carry out annual routine maintenance works on at least
2500 km of paved roads and at least 3500 km of unpaved
roads under Part A.1 (a)(v) of the Project.


﻿- 26 -
2.    Implementation of the LOC
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, prior to commencement of Part A.1 (b)
(ii) of the Project:
(a)   Allocate sufficient local financial resources to the
Program from the Borrower's national budget and the Road
Fund as follows: at least $45,000,000 (forty-five
million dollars), to Part A.1 (a) of the Project; of
which at least $25,000,000 (twenty-five million
dollars), through the Road Fund, to Parts A.1 (a)(i),
A.1 (a)(iv) and A.1 (a)(v) of the Project.
(b)   Complete a study on the operations of the Road Fund, in
accordance with terms of reference agreed with the
Association.
3.    Operations
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, prior to commencement of Part A.1 (b)
(ii) of the Project:
(a)   Carry out at least 60% (sixty percent) of periodic and
15% (fifteen percent) of routine maintenance works
through contractors, including registered ECMEPs.
(b)   Implement, in accordance with technical, legal and
financial  terms agreed with    the Association   the
following:  (i)  privatization  of   CETA;  and  (ii)
registration of at least four (4) construction and
maintenance companies (ECMEPs).
(c)   Develop the Borrower's local road construction industry
through: (i) the approval of a local road construction
industry strategy and commencement of a training program
for the local road construction industry, in accordance
with terms agreed between the Borrower and the
Association; (ii) completion of procurement procedures
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, to contract civil works as follows: (A) at
least ten (10) packages each estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 (five hundred thousand dollars)
or less; and (B) at least ten (10) contracts have been


﻿- 27 -
awarded to Domestic Contractors, as part of a training
program agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(d)   Restructure DNEP's equipment operations procedures
through the creation of commercial plant hire pools, in
accordance with an action plan agreed with the
Association.
(e)   Design and implement DNEP's programming procedures
satisfactory  to   the  Association,   including  the
establishment of a road condition and traffic data base,
the development of a programming manual, and the
operation of a Road Maintenance Management System
(RMMS).
4.    Capacity Building
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, prior to commencement of Part A.1 (b)
(ii) of the Project:
(a)   Strengthen DNEP's information and technology systems,
management, accounting and financial procedures in
accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the
Association.
(b)   Appoint within DNEP the following: (i) at least eleven
(11) additional staff with university degrees in civil
engineering; (ii) at least five (5) A-level technical
trainers; (iii) at least four (4) additional staff with
tertiary-level training in accounting, economics,
planning or computer systems; (iv) at least fifteen (15)
technicians.
(c)   Implement the Borrower's roads training program in
accordance with   an action plan agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
(d)   Monitor  the  performance  of  consultants' services
financed  under  the  Project,   in  accordance  with
evaluation criteria agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.


﻿- 28 -
(e)   Establish and operate an advisory board to DNEP, com-
prising representatives of public and private sector
road users.
5.    Other policy measures
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall prior to commencement of Part A.1 (b) (ii)
of the Project:
(a)   Design and start to implement a road-safety program, a
weigh-bridge and an axle-load control program in
accordance with an action plan agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
(b)   Implement the Borrower's trucking sector privatization
and liberalization action plan, in accordance with terms
and a timetable agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
(c)   Implement the capacity building program to strengthen
MOF's contract approval capabilities, in accordance with
an action plan agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
(d)   Design  and  implement guidelines for    environmental
analysis and monitoring in the roads sector, in
accordance with an action plan agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 30 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount of   the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 31 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETAkY


