Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24145-PAK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.3 MILLION
(US$26.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
BANKING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
May 14, 2002
Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2002)
Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00 - US$0.0167
US$1.00 = Rs 60.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATM      Automated Teller Machine              HR         Human Resource
BSAL     Banking Services Corporation          ICB        International Competitive Bidding
BSC     Banking Services Corporation           ISSP       Information System Strategy Plan
BSRPP   Banking Sector Restructuring and       IT        Information Technology
Privatization Project
CAL     Consultancy Associates Ltd.            KYC        Know Your Customer
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy            NAB       National Accountability Bureau
CIB     Credit Information Bureau              NBFI       Non-Bank Financial Institution
CNS     Control of Narcotic Substance          NCB       National Competitive Bidding
DFI     Development Finance Institution        NIBAF      National Institute for Banking and Finance
ECW     Economic Crimes Wing                   NIFT       National Institute of Financial Transactions
ERP     Enterprise Resource Package            RTGS       Real-Time Gross Settlement
FATF    Financial Action Task Force            SBP        State Bank of Pakistan
FIA     Federal Investigation Authority        SECP       Securities &Exchange Commission of Pakistan
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program    TABS       Banking Sector Technical Assistance Project
FSDIP   Financial Sector Deepening and         TOR        Terms of Reference
Intermediation Project
GOP     Government of Pakistan                 UNDB       United Nations Development Business
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:  John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:  Marilou Jane D. Uy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Mudassir Khan



PAKISTAN
BANKING SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        15
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           16
2. Financial                                                                          16
3. Technical                                                                          16
4. Institutional                                                                      17
5. Environmnental                                                                     18
6. Social                                                                             18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     19



2. Critical risks                                                                     19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            21
2. Other                                                                              21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          21
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          23
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           39
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       41
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            58
MAP(S)
IBRD 28419



PAKISTAN
Banking Sector Technical Assistance
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASFP
Date: May 14, 2002                              Team Leader: Mudassir Khan
Country Manager/Director: John W. Wall          Sector Manager/Director: Marilou Jane I). Uy
Project ID: P074797                             Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme(s): Financial Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Fifiancing,Data                                      -
[ ] Loan    [XI Credit    [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 26.5
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 15                        Years to maturity: 30
Commitment fee: 0.00-0.50%; effective rate 0.00%  Service charge: 0.75%
Financing P,lan (US$m): i: . tSou j-,' t,ocal,                          Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                     3.80           0.00          3.80
IDA                                                          0.00          26.50         26.50
Total:                                                       3.80          26.50         30.30
Borrower: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Responsible agency: STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN
Address: Central Directorate, I.I. Chundriyar Road, Karachi
Contact Person: Kazi Abdul Muktadir
Tel: 21-9217212           Fax: 21-9217222            Email: kazi.abdulnuktadir@sbp.org.pk
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/U;S$m):
FY'        2003, .-   2004 ,    2005,    ,,0i6      -
Annual      9.00      8.00      6.00      3.50
Cumulative     9.00     17.00 l   23.00      26.50
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
MS PAD Fpm R - DadS 2W0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Banking Sector Technical Assistance Project (TABS) is a follow on of the ongoing Financial
Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project (FSDIP), which will be closing in June 2002. TABS
would support completion of the restructuring measures already initiated under FSDIP as well as
complement broader reforms in the financial sector supported by the Bank and other donors. The
project will assist State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) in its restructuring program of transforming the
central bank into a highly professional, efficient and modem institution. The primary objective being
that the central bank of the country becomes fully equipped to play a meaningful role in the economic
development of Pakistan. The restructuring measures supported under the project include:
(a) Improving the standards and quality of personnel, providing employees an opportunity to work
with modem techniques/tools through enhanced training and re-aligning the bank's training policies
with international best practices for staff development,
(b) Modernizing the operations of the State Bank by automating processes through use of technology,
networking and communication tools and establishing linkages with the banking sector and the
Ministry of Finance for improved functioning,
(c) Streamlining and strengthening the payments system for improved, safe, efficient and affordable
delivery of financial services across the country,
(d) Carrying out a study and supporting further strengthening of the credit information system in the
country in order to provide better quality and wider access to financial information to all
stakeholders,
(e) creating awareness and strengthening regulators and enforcers for prevention of money laundering
and financial fraud,
(f) strengthening and building capacity for banking sector regulation and policy making, and
(g) supporting the privatization of the nationalized commercial banks, specifically, Habib Bank Ltd.
FSDIP has supported the State Bank of Pakistan over the last six years in improving its functioning
as a regulator. The supervision of banks was considerably strengthened with development of new
rules and procedures and the hiring and training of personnel in specialized areas. Manual functions
were automated and existing systems upgraded through state of the art technology. In addition, SBP
took a number of additional initiatives to further build its capability for effective regulation and
management of monetary policy (details of past and ongoing reforms are provided in Section B-2).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*   More qualified, competent and skilled staff at SBP.
*   Compensation, rewards and promotions at SBP based on performance evaluation and linked
to the market.
*   Improved systems, accessibility and flow of information within SBP and with the banking
sector.
*   Implementation of a special purpose Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system to process
large value and time critical transactions without risk and the extension of low value
electronic clearing systems to cities other than Karachi.
* Comprehensive assessment of the existing credit information systems completed.
* Enhanced capacity for supervision and enforcement of money laundering regulations.
Increased awareness in the financial sector on money laundering, its adverse impact and
- 2 -



consequences.
* Due diligence for Habib Bank privatization completed.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22219-PAK; May 16, 2001 Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/12/2001
The overarching objective of the Pakistan program is to reduce poverty through investing in people,
raising productivity, and promoting sustainable economic growth. This is to be attained by achieving
macro economic stability, improving resource allocation, enhancing human development, nurturing a
competitive environment for private investment and promoting better governance.
CAS recognizes the importance of a strong financial sector to support private sector development
and economic growth. It indicates the need for further improving health of the financial sector
particularly the country's commercial banks and development finance institutions. Moreover, further
strengthening of the supervision of banks and enhancing the institutional capacity of SBP will also be
achieved. As the financial sector deepens with new and more complex products and processes by the
advancements in technology and seivice and intermediation capacity develops, it becomes critical to
strengthen the institutional infrastructure of the central bank and the broader financial sector. The
proposed project aims to reinforce the foundations of the financial sector by strengthening the
regulator (both in terms of its humran resource skills as well as its technological base), enhancing the
role of credit information, strengthening the national payments system and establishing deterrents to
financial fraud and money laundering.
The Banking Sector Technical Assistance Project (TABS) is directly in accordance with CAS
objectives to support a safe and sound financial sector, its rehabilitation and privatization as well as
continued assistance for the strengthening of SBP. The project also reinforces broader reforms in the
financial and banking sector and the recently prepared Banking Sector Restructuring and
Privatization Support Project.
2. Main sector issues and Governinent strategy:
The Government in the mid 1990's undertook the first wave of reforms to address vast governance
problems of the financial sector, particularly in the state owned banking and development finance
institutions (DFIs). This was done with objective of replacing the present system with one that is largely in
private hands and one which operates in a strong regulatory environment. Since then, the Government has
been pursuing reforms in the financial sector with the support of the Bank and other donors. As a part of
these reforms, parallel initiatives were taken to make the State Bank more independent and build its
regulatory and supervisory capacity.
Recent Initiatives for Change/Improv ments:
The Technical assistance provided to SBP under FSDIP in the last six years has been responsible for
bringing about a considerable change at SBP. More importantly it has initiated a process of institution
building hitherto ignored. A significant part of FSDIP project was accomplished through a long- tenn
consultancy provided by Arthur Andersen. The project assisted SBP in: improving its management
structure; strengthening banking supeivision through development and adoption of modem bank
examination techniques and training of existing and new qualified staff in this area; introducing computer
technology and preparing an Information System Strategy Plan (ISSP) for automation of SBP
- 3 -



headquarters, regional and branch offices, and establishing linkages with the banking sector; and building
general staff capacity through training. The support has brought about radical changes in supervisory
methodology and a significant change in the quality of supervision. The process is now institutionalized and
supervision are carried out based on internationally recognized CAMELS framework for evaluation of
risks inherent in banking activities. It involves conducting continuous off-site monitoring to identify those
institutions which reflect high probability of financial difficulty for early detection leading to timely
corrective actions. Now, the State Bank's on-site inspection reports are far more specific and focused and
facilitate specific and targeted remedial actions. Institutions given adverse ratings are required to submit
time bound action plans. Recent action on Indus and Prudential banks is an example of the bank's new
enforcement policy. The qualitative improvements in the bank's inspections were confirmed in the feedback
received from the banking sector. This was reported in the Bank's financial sector update of May 2000.
IMF - report of Monetary and Exchange Affairs Department, April 2001, also validated improvements in
SBP's operations and governance related to autonomy, foreign exchange and monetary management, and
compliance with International Accounting Standards.
Human Resource Development Initiatives:
Although the State Bank has improved considerably, it is still a long way from becoming a modem and an
effective central bank. With a change in the management in January 2000, SBP initiated the second wave of
reforms. These included:
(i) Cabinet's approval of an ordinance to divide the State Bank's set-up into two - the core central bank with
1,200 professionals focusing on the monetary policy, supervision and regulation of the financial sector,
foreign exchange management and payments system and, an independent subsidiary, the Banking Services
Corporation (BSC). The BSC consists of 6,500 staff, and is responsible for retail and treasury functions at
the 16 branch offices. Headed by a separate Managing Director, BSC has relieved the Governor and the
senior management to focus on core functions;
(ii) intiatives to improve the skill base of SBP personnel by further training and skill enhancement, for those
uninterested or beyond training the early retirement scheme was offered twice. The first scheme for staff of
25+ years service, achieved a take up of 338. The second for lower level employees with 20+ years service
achieved further reduction in staff by 490. All subsequent vacancies in the non-clerical and clerical
positions were abolished (reducing the ratio between support and professional staff) and the anticipated
substitution of quality among the professionals;
(iii) SBP tapped the private sector and inducted more then 35 staff directly from the market at senior and
middle management levels including: an Economic Adviser, an IT Project Manager, Chief Treasury Dealer,
Director Exchange Policy, Director Accounts, and Director Audit. In addition, Additional Directors looking
after the audit and accounts departments are experienced professionals recruited through a competitive
process. More than 30 Division Chiefs, i.e. middle level managers, in the 12 core departments were
recruited directly from the market, through a merit-based open process. The direct recruits now account
for more than 60 percent of all officers in this category, as compared to about 20 to 30 percent, two years
ago. In September 2001, a very senior private sector banker was appointed as Deputy Govemor (banking);
(iv) the National Institute for Banking and Finance (NIBAF) has been restructured as an independent
subsidiary to focus on training and skill development of staff at SBP. Entry level banking officers are
trained at NIBAF and subsequently on the job before being assigned to various departments. A large scale
professional and managerial retraining program was initiated for all levels of staff and although promotions
are based on performance at work they are also explicitly linked with performance at training courses.
- 4 -



Foreign training for skill up-gradation was intensified and twining arrangements were reached with Bank
Negara (central bank of Malaysia) and FSA, UK; and
(v) SBP contracted services of senior ex Bank staff and other professionals including a Human Resource
Adviser from Bank Negara to assist in restructuring, capacity building and business process re-engineering
of SBP.
Introducing information technologyL
In the area of IT, while some of the manual systems were earlier computerized, SBP's technological base
remained weak, making it difficult for the information to flow within and outside the organization. The
ISSP study had recommended a complete automation of SBP functions to enhance the overall efficiency of
the institution and to improve the control systems both internal and external, which are crucial for optimum
functioning of cental banks. Implementation of ISSP is underway integrating a complete management
information system, and includes: (i) a Banking Solution, (ii) Enterprise Resource Package (ERP) for
accounting, human resources, payroll, procurement, inventory and asset management system, (iii) setting
up a central Data Warehouse to provide a single source of organizational data, and (iv) networking of all
SBP offices and the banking system. Without this level of automation the cental bank would not be in a
position to perform its role as a vi:gilant and effective regulator in this fast changing environmnent led by
advancements in technology.
Improving electronic clearing services:
Although electronic check clearing services were introduced by the private sector in 1996, by the
establishment of National Institute of Financial Transactions (NIFT). The banking sector, however, did not
readily exploit the advantages of these services. Consequently, these services remained limited to Karachi.
It was only recently when all of the commercial banks adapted electronic clearing services, that the clearing
house started its services in Lahore and is now planning to expand to all other major cities of the country.
While these are positive developments, SBP and the commercial banks recognize that substantial
weaknesses exist in the present system concerning both the design and availability of services and
geographical coverage. Weaknesses in the national payment system can be a source of substantial risk and
lack of confidence in the banking system. SBP plans to counter this by introducing an appropriate large
value real-time gross settlement syitem to mitigate risk and support private sector in extending low value
electronic clearing services outside the main population centers.
Strenghening regulatory framework:
The State Bank undertook a review of the financial sector in/ over the past 18 months. The focus was on
assessing market needs, regulatory constraints and institutional weaknesses in the system. The review
showed that, because of the regulatory constraints the sector was fragmented with a multitude of small and
weak institutions thereby limiting the competition within the system. Consequently, SBP has taken several
measures: (i) increasing the minimlm capital requirement for banks and non-bank financial institutions
(NBFIs), (ii) rationalizing the legal and regulatory framework for NBFIs, and (iii) restructuring of the
development finance sector. SBP also intends to continue working for under-served sectors of the economy.
In May 2001, the State Bank requested a follow-on/continuation of the technical assistance project to
support the ongoing institutional reiorms and other restructuring measures that are discussed in detail under
Section-C.
-5 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
TABS will support the continuation of the second phase of the financial sector reforms and the
technical assistance provided to SBP under FSDIP. As a technical assistance project, TABS focuses
on institutional infrastructure development to strengthen the following areas:
1. Improving Functioning of SBP: Recognizing that an independent and effective central bank is
essential for an efficient financial system, SBP took the iniative to reform itself These efforts were
supported by the Government and the Bank. Both, FSDIP and the Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
(BSAL) assisted in bringing autonomy to the central bank and improving its skill and technological
base. To assess the impact of implemented reforms, the Bank carried out a review in May 2000
which indicated that while SBP had come a long way, it required further restructuring and change in
systems to be truly effective.
Learning from the international experience, it was decided to split SBP into a main central bank,
which would focus on core central banking and an independent subsidiary to deal with retail banking
functions. SBP management also took the route of gradually changing its skill base through early
retirement schemes and direct induction from the private sector and revised its HR policies to attract
and retain quality staff. Best practice information systems were selected and are being introduced to
modernize processes and weed out non trainable and unskilled staff. Unions were restricted in their
operations through change in law, which has allowed the central bank to introduce, a broad based
'Change' initiative and professionalism in the institution.
2. Improving Financial Services: For a long time, there was hardly any innovation in development of
financial products and services. Manually operated paper based systems were in use for processing
of payments This was not only time-consuming but left room for errors. To satisfy the requirements
of speed and reliability, SBP, in conjunction with commercial banks, worked towards automation of
check processing. However, there remained substantial weaknesses in the system with regard to
availability of services and geographical coverage.
SBP has engaged the services of a recognized consulting firm to design and acquire a suitable-large
value electronic payments system. In addition, SBP along with the private sector is developing a
strategy for extending low value, clearing services to locations other than Karachi, Lahore, and
Islamabad. These systems will address these issues and foster development of new financial services
by reducing risk, eliminating delays in clearing, and improving use of available money stock.
3. Credit Information on Potential Borrowers: Lack of credit information on both the corporates and
consumers clients, has been a constraint for financial institutions in making informed lending
decisions. To facilitate accurate assessment of repayment probability and better allocation of credit,. a
credit information bureau was set up in the country in 1989. However, while the mechanisms for data
collection and retrieval and the scope of data collected was improved over time, the extent and
accessibility of credit information remains limited. Moreover, these services remained with the State
Bank, no initiative was taken by the private sector to provide these services on an organized basis
except for a few private firms which have recently shown an interest in consumer related credit
services. SBP has made a conscious decision to improve its corporate credit information services and
will review international best practices for expanding the scope and allowing the private sector to
provide such services.
4. Preventing Financial Fraud: Financial fraud had become a systemic problem that was affecting
the country's financial system, in particular, the banking system. The regulatory framework and
-6 -



enforcement mechanisms of financial institutions were weak partially because of insufficient capacity
and partially due to ignorance of the consequences and impact of fraudulent practices.
The project will assist SBP and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SECP) in strengthening
their capacity to effectively detect financial fraud and build awareness in the financial community for
its prevention. In addition, the project will assist in enhancing capacity of the Economic Crimes Wing
(ECW) and the judiciary to invesi igate fraud and enforce the law.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The six components of the Projecl: are discussed below:
Human Resource Development: Human Resource (HR) reforms initiated by SBP were/have been
supported under FSDIP in/over the past few years. The program covered all HR related policies and
development of an HR management system with the objectives of:
(i) reviewing and re-aligning policies of recruitment, training, compensation, performance evaluation,
promotion and separation;
(ii) strengthening the human resource base of SBP by attracting, retaining and motivating professional
staff; and
(iii) carrying out a comprehensive HR audit to identify and fill the skill gaps in relation to the existing and
emerging functional needs of SBP. To achieve the first two objectives, a HR adviser from Bank Negara
(Malaysia) was engaged to advise and undertake restructuring. In addition, Sidat Hyder (local counterparts
of Arthur Anderson) were hired last year for carrying out the audit.
The HR Adviser has done considerable ground work and designed several key policies, however, much
remains to be done particularly on the implementation side. It is planned that the HR Audit Team would
pick up the work at the time when the HR Adviser completes her assignment in June 2002. Although the
initial task of Sidat Hyder was to review positions, prepare job descriptions and conduct job, skills and
training needs analyses, its responsibilities have now been increased. This additional scope would be
supported by the project and inclucles: (i) reviewing policies developed by the HR Adviser; (ii) identifying
suitable compensation strategies and design; (iii) providing training in key soft skill areas such as
behavioral skills; (iv) assessment cf leadership capabilities; and (v) preparing a report on possible
redundancies and potential areas of further restructuring.
Training is essential for sustaining the reform process and has been given particular attention by SBP
management. TABS would continue to support these initiatives in the areas of: (i) Peoples Management;
(ii) Performance Management; (iii) Team work and leadership programs; (iv) Change Management; and (v)
acquisition of HR tools. This support is to ensure that the HR department is committed to adopting best
practices in its human resource management.
Technology Up-gradation: This component would support completion of the automation project as
designed in the Information Systerrm Strategy Plan formulated under the FSDIP. Technology enhancement
will allow regular flow of consistent information for the central bank to play a pro-active role in banking
supervision and take timely actions when needed. The base infrastructure has been successfully installed
already at the head office, and initial deployment of the banking solution (Globus), ERP package (Oracle
Financials) and the data warehouse are being implemented. In each of these areas, TABS would assist in
- 7 -



the following:
Banking Solution - GLOBUS: As the main banking system, Globus will help SBP achieve; compliance
with international banking standards, availability of reliable information, ease of introducing new products
into the market, as well as efficiency and controls. Significant progress has been made according to the
project plan and the project supports implementation and branch roll out of Globus with the following
additional modules:
1. Custom-built systems for export refinance and integration of currency, housing refinance window,
depository functions (loan floated by the government and special government bonds), and to take care
of impact of subsidiary.
2. Roll out of Globus to SBP branches including mapping of staff, training and WAN connectivity.
3. Assessment of Globus functionality to identify new processes and practices that may be implemented in
ERP.
ERP Oracle: ERP will integrate departrnental functions related to financial accounting, human resources,
budgeting, payroll, procurement, inventory and asset management. Implementation has progressed well
including, completion of definition, operations analysis and solution design phases. Under the project, the
following activities would be supported:
1. ERP changes needed to cater for the SBP and subsidiary split, including consolidation of accounts and
custom-built packages such as Oracle Alter Manager, Self Service Web Applications and Oracle
Workflow.
2. Implementation of a self-service HR kiosk for the bank's staff and personnel.
3. Implementation of an OLAP financial analyzer for end user reporting.
4. Oracle workflow implementation.
Data warehouse: Data Warehouse is a central repository of information that provides comprehensive and
high integrity data in a form suitable for decision support to end-users and to the decision-makers. In the
new technologically advanced environment, it has become essential that systems and data structures be
redesigned for sustainability and scalability. The project supports implementation of the following
activities:
1. Initiating Business Process Reengineering of routine processes alongwith additional subject areas
including access to organizational data, interactive query, analysis and presentation of data, modeling
and forecasting and object and multi-dimensional data analysis.
2. Conversion and flow of data from different applications into the data warehouse.
3. Introducing custom-built packages such as OLAP Financial Services, Oracle Express Analyzer, Oracle
9itAS Clickstream Intelligence and Business Intelligence Beans.
Hardware and Networking: Significant progress has been made with 584 PCs deployed and five servers are
in operation. Additional 219 PCs are being installed. Networking in SBP Karachi offices is completed to a
great extent including LAN and radio linked WAN between three offices. Reassessment during
implementation deternined a requirement of 2804 nodes. This revision of requirements has brought about
significant design change resulting in the enhanced scope of work in networking. In addition, the project
would support:
1. The procurement of 925 desktop and 120 laptop computers.
2. 200 Network, 25 Personal and 10 High End Printers.
3. Completion of LAN setup including cabling at Karachi Office.
4. Connecting regional offices through VSAT, digital cross connect and dial up link - WAN.
5. To ensure quality power supply power generators, voltage stabilizers, UPS and related infrastructure
will also be included in this component.
- 8 -



Completion of the automation project includes expansion of the systems to 15 branch offices beyond the
Central Directorate and Karachi Office including; entire roll out of Globus, ERP/Oracle financial and
networking of the branch offices.
Training and Change Management: The project team has successfully trained staff in oracle, Globus and
O/A. Under the current plans further training programs on Oracle, O/A, networking and systems will also
be conducted. This is, however, arn ongoing exercise and is extremely critical for this entire effort. The
project would support completion of these training programs in networking and O/A, as well as conducting
similar programs during transition and before switch over. In addition, the project will support change
management initiatives so that SBiP is fully prepared to accept the new systems and processes.
Strengthening and Streamlining the National Payments System: The payment instruments used in
Pakistan can be broadly categorized into cash and paper-based instruments. Paper-based instruments
comprise checks, drafts etc. Since -the data on the usage of these instruments in Pakistan is currently not
available, it is not possible to give exact ratios of cash payments and non-cash payments. The use of
electronic payments such as Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) and Credit Cards is very limited since
these facilities have been introduced very recently in the country by the commercial banks and are available
only in major cities. However, these modem facilities are becoming popular among the people and demand
for modem services is growing.
Steps have already been initiated to address the well-recognized risk and efficiency weaknesses. To
replace the existing old and manually operated paper based payment system with a modem one, the
commercial banks have established an organization that will be responsible for the automated
processing of checks. This initiative is being undertaken in collaboration with private sector investors
through establishment of a company - NIFT, that was established in October, 1996 as a joint venture
of six large commercial banks and private investors.
In January 2001 the BIS CPSS published a major report containing the Core Principles for Systemically
Important Payment Systems which provide a framework for assessing the degree to which the national
systems satisfy the requirements for speed, certainty, reliability, etc. Despite the actions that have been
taken to date - automation of check processing in a few main population centres - the SBP and the
commercial banks recognize that substantial legal, risk and efficiency weaknesses are present in the
existing systems.
The State Bank team has made excellent progress in preparing for execution of the payments system
improvement component. Organizational arrangements have been put in place to ensure that all SBP and
commercial bank stakeholders have an opportunity to actively participate in the conceptual design of the
envisaged RTGS system and in its detailed specification. Consultancy Associates Limited (CAL) have
been appointed as project consultanls that are asssisting SBP in acquiring an understanding of the relevant
policy, organizational, technical and operational issues that need to be addressed in design of the RTGS
system and its interface with Globus banking package that is now nearing completion. RTGS and Globus
integration will provide an opportunity for SBP to provide a model I Delivery versus Payment (DvP)
capability for secondary market trading in govemment securities as well as a robust vehicle to provide a
repo based intra-day liquidity to RTGS participants. This integration will also provide an appropriate
infrastructure for use by the market in developing a robust and secure inter-bank money market.
The acquisition and implementation of the above mentioned system will cover: (a) acquisition and
installation of a comprehensive and robust RTGS system; (b) all necessary training of SBP and commercial
banks' operations, IT and treasury personnel; (c) services of a dedicated project manager and other
-9-



advisory assistance during system implementation; (d) educational visits by relevant SBP personnel to
central banks that have already installed a RTGS system to enhance understanding and increase confidence;
and (e) specialist legal advice in establishing an appropriate legal infrastructure for the new system
ensuring provisioning of final and irrevocable immediate settlement of payment instructions on an intra-day
basis.
Strengthening and Extending the Scope of Credit Information Bureau (CIB): The State Bank's CIB
was established in 1989. The mechanisms for data collection and data retrieval as well as the scope of the
data collected and maintained in the system data bases has been enhancing progressively, with the most
recent improvements made in May 2001. The C1IB provides valuable and much needed service in a low cost
manner to the credit community i.e. to both the users and providers. The existing system is semi automated
and relies on paper based input-output processes. Nevertheless, the information contained in the system
database as well as in the technical platform used by the system has been improved over time in keeping
with the evolving needs of the participants for a more comprehensive information database.
The State Bank personnel are aware that the issues of policy, legal framework and operations surrounding
the design of credit information services, have recently received considerable attention throughout the
global financial community and could be used to assess current systems at the State Bank, with a view to
identifying worthwhile and cost effective enhancements. The project has three main objectives: (a)
strengthening the existing system and extending its scope to ensure that optimum benefits are provided to
participants consistent with best intemational practice; (b) improving the knowledge and skills of a small
group of SBP specialists; and (c) enhancing the technical platform to provide a basis for an on-line secure
connectivity with the system users. High quality systems facilitate better overall allocation of credit in the
economy, more accurate prediction of repayment probability, more accurate pricing and targeting of credit,
more consistent and efficient application of credit policy, improved borrower discipline, increased
incentives to repay, and reduction in the potential for moral hazard.
Building Awareness and Strengthening the Regulators/Examiners and Enforcers for Prevention of
Money Laundering and Financial Fraud: The State Bank and the Securities and Exchange Commission
of Pakistan are the regulatory and supervisory authorities for banks, financial (non bank) markets including
stock market participants, NBFIs, and insurance. These two authorities have initiated measures to
strengthen their in-house capacity/ competencies to control and prevent money laundering activities. The
central bank is already focusing on formulating rules and regulations to ensure compliance. Measures
initiated so far include issuance of Prudential Regulations to banks, NBFIs Rules of Business, freezing of
accounts, educating supervisory staff, communicating with Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Foreign
Affairs on relevant issues and ensuring that banks and NBFIs have 'know your customer' (KYC) rules
which are strictly adhered to. Moreover, banks are assessed by the State Bank's on-site examniners who
evaluate the KYC policies and procedures of banks during their inspections. Deviations/ violations from
Prudential Regulations and Rules of Business are reported for necessary action. Banks/ NBFIs found in
violation can be penalized and proceedings may be instigated against the responsible officials.
Pakistan is an active member of the Asia Pacific Group on Money Laundering. The Anti Narcotics Force
and the National Accountability Bureau (NAB), (including the Economic Crimes Wing of the Federal
Investigation Authority - FIA) are investigation authorities engaged in prosecution of money laundering
activities. On the State Bank's initiative, a Working Group headed by the Ministry of Finance and
consisting of representatives of Ministries of Law and justice, Interior, SBP, SECP, NAB and FIA, has
been constituted to draft an effective and comprehensive legislation to provide for an institutional
framework for monitoring and regulating money laundering transactions.
- 10 -



SECP has also taken several initiatives to counter money laundering activities/ practices including
requirement of KYC policies for securities' market brokers. Plans to strengthen the systems for monitoring
and surveillance of securities markets, broker licensing and certification criteria are underway. The need
vigilant systems for disclosure requirements and standards is being emphasized with the overarching
objective of creating awareness in the investor community. Moreover, training sessions and seminars will
be held to create awareness among key stakeholders, such as creditors and institutional investors.
Workshops will be arranged under the auspices of major academic institutions, which will focus on
significant corporate governance issues. For the benefit of public at large, brochures and guidelines will be
published to develop their knowledge and understanding of the main perspectives and framework of
corporate govemance and help the public assimilate its various dimensions.
Recognizing that a change in culture and mindset is critical to effectively implement these policies, capacity
of all institutions involved needs to be strengthened. The project supports training of the essential staff of
SBP, SECP, AML unit of Economic Crimes Wing (ECW) of the Federal Investigation Authority, and the
judiciary. Enhancements in the existing computer systems for monitoring and record keeping would also be
supported to improve the capability of enforcing these new policies.
Strengthening and Building Capacity for Banking Sector Regulation and Policy Making: SBP has,
over the past few years, strengthened its capacity for effective regulation and development of the financial
markets. This was achieved largely through training of essential staff and consultant support. Various
studies were conducted in the areas of under served markets, market structure (including Islamic banking)
and regulation of deposit taking/ non-deposit taking institutions. The study on under served sectors, in fact,
led to a paradigm shift in the strategy for development banking sector. In addition, SBP took an initiative
for developing the housing finance market. This initiative was also supported by the Bank under which a
review was carried out covering the role of existing market players and future prospects for the housing
sector. TABS would support further work in these areas including small and medium enterprises, housing
and rural finance.
The project would assist SBP and policy makers to keep pace with developments in global financial
markets through participation in serminars and specialized training programs. It would support the
privatization of the nationalized conimercial banks. It would also assist in developing research capabilities
within the SBP and the Ministry of 'Finance (banking wing). Specifically, the project would finance: (i)
provision of specialized training in "soft skills' areas, particularly management of change and culture; (ii)
appointment of well-regarded senior level trainers from abroad to bring in new ideas to supplement intemal
programs and courses offered withiin Pakistan; (iii) taking part in intemational serninars and conferences;
(iv) hiring consultants/ advisers to support training needs, IT and HR functions; (v) conducting studies for
development of financial markets and services including a comprehensive diagnostic study on Habib Bank
Limited; and (vi) building capacity at the Ministry of Finance (banking wing) for strategy and policy
making to keep abreast of developments in the sector.
- 11 -



The proposed project costs as well as proposed/indicative amounts of Bank financing for each component,
are summarized below
. . ; -: n  - -  X     a     -   Indicative'           Bank-      % of
-Component                  Sector,-      Costs      .       financing   Bank-
,(US$M!l)  Total -  '(US$M): .financing
Human Resource Development       Institutional         1.12       3.7      0.87       3.3
Development
Technology Up-gradation                               16.63     54.9      14.78      55.8
System Reform &
Capacity Building
Strengthening Payments System    Financial Sector     5.00       16.5      4.50      17.0
Development
Strengthening Credit Information  Financial Sector     0.60       2.0      0.50        1.9
Services                         Development
Anti Money Laundering and Financial System Reform &    0.80       2.6      0.70        2.6
Fraud                            Capacity Building
Strengthening Banking Sector Capacity Institutional    4.65      15.3      3.65       13.8
Development
Contingency                                            1.50       5.0       1.50       5.7
Total Project Costs                  30.30     100.0     26.50      100.0
Total Financing Required                    30.30     100.0     26.50     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project primarily aims to transform the State Bank into a highly professional, efficient and
modem institution. This vision is to be translated into reality through a strategy of bringing about
qualitative improvement in economic policy formulation, pro-active supervision and regulation of the
financial institutions, prudent management of foreign exchange market and strengthening of the
payments system and associated oversight/supervisory/overseeing arrangements.
To date, sector policy reforms have been supported by projects such as BSAL, Banking Sector
Restructuring and Privatization Project (BSRPP) and FSDIP. As FSDIP will be closing in June
2002, a number of initiatives started under the project would continue beyond the closing of the
project. TABS is an effort to provide for completion of these initiatives and to strengthen institutions
to support the implementation of policies.
- 12 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits                            Target Population
Improved human resource quality at SBP.  Employees of the State Bank of Pakistan.
Modem technological base and sitnplified  Employees of the State Bank, financial sector
business processes for effective regulation.  institutions and their customers.
Qualitative improvement in managing      General public.
monetary policy.
Pro-active supervision and regulatRon of the  Financial institutions, corporate entities and
financial markets.                       general public.
Improved payments systems for safe, secure  Financial institutions and their customers.
efficient and affordable delivery of financial
services.
Better quality and more comprehersive    Financial institutions, consumer and
information on consumer and corporate    corporate entities, and the public.
sector borrowing behaviors for improving the
allocation of credit. A subsidiary additional
benefit will be a more disciplined use of
credit by private sector borrowers.
Heightened awareness of what constitutes  Financial market players, corporate entities
money laundering and associated penalties.  and the public.
Increased capacity of regulators and     SBP, SECP, ECW and judiciary.
enforcers to prevent financial fraud and
money laundering.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Government of Pakistan will be the Borrower, which will pass-on proceeds of the loan to SBP,
on grant basis. The State Bank will be the main implementing agency. The project will be managed
by a Project Director, currently Director of Banking Inspection Department. However, three of the
main components would have their owvn project managers due to the extended scope and complexity
of the activities involved. These include: (a) the Human Resource Development component for
implementation of HR reforms in SB P, (b) the Technical Up-gradation component for
implementation of the IT project, and (c) the Payments Systems component.
The SBP project team would also be responsible for coordinating and managing utilization of funds
for SECP, ECW, Ministry of Law and the Ministry of Finance under AML and capacity building
components.
- 13 -



SBP would submit regular quarterly implementation progress reports for the project. It would also
carry out a comprehensive staff survey after two years of project implementation. Results of the
survey would be used for mid term review to assess impact of the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The first alternative considered was to allow other donors (e.g. ADB, UNDP) to finance the proposed
project. This option was turned down as the Bank and ADB have in principal agreed to focus on
separate areas of work in Pakistan to avoid overlap. ADB covers the non banking sector while the
Bank has been supporting reforms in the banking sector including institutional strengthening of the
regulator. UNDP did not have adequate funds to meet the funding requirements for the proposed
reforms.
The other alternative of no further assistance was also considered. However, this was rejected not
only due to the importance of the institutional reforms being introduced but also to support
completion of the human resource restructuring as well as up-gradation of management information
systems. Moreover, strengthening of the national payments system and credit information services -
additional components of the TABS project, were regarded essential areas for improving the banking/
business environment in Pakistan. Not supporting SBP at this critical juncture would jeopardize
future reforms as well as undermine previous reforms introduced under the earlier projects.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
t(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Regulatory and market distortions and  Banking Sector Restructuring  HS         HS
weaknesses in the legal framework.  and Privatization Project
Overall banking sector distress; weak  Banking Sector Adjustment   HS           HS
banking regulation and supervision;  Loan
financial market segmentation;
ineffective banking court system
Weak bank supervision department in  Financial Sector Deepening and  S           S
the central bank and lack of      Intermediation Project
privatization expertise in the
Privatization Commission          _
Other development agencies
Weak institutional capacity.      UNDP - Pakistan Action
Research and Development in
Governance and Management
Project
Underdeveloped capital markets; weak ADB - Capital Markets
regulatory framework for capital  Development Program Loan
- 14 -



markets; poor performance of
state-owned mutual funds.
Overall banking sector distress; weak OECF - Co-financing of BSAL
banking regulation and supervision;
financial market segmentation;
ineffective banking court system..
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
1. Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project - The project had two broad components:
(i) a credit line for private financial institutions to meet foreign exchange requirements of project.
financing; and (ii) technical assistance for the Central Bank, the Privatization Commission, the
Controller of Insurance and the Securities and Exchange Commission (then Corporate Law
Authority) for capacity building and implementing policy reforms. The project design was complex
and overly ambitious. The project had multiple objectives and did not have commensurate
commitment of the relevant stakeholders. As a result, the credit line remained un-utilized and the
project was restructured. The restructured technical assistance project was limited in scope to assist
SBP in strengthening its regulatory and supervisory role, and the Privatization Commission in
executing bank privatization. The component for Privatization Commission, however, did not
proceed entirely satisfactorily due to external factors such as law and order and the investment
climate in the country. The SBP component was successful in achieving its objectives.
2. TABS was designed based on the experience of FSDIP as a technical assistance project focusing
on SBP. The design of the project is simple and there is demonstrated ownership and commitment of
SBP to implement (discussed in the following paragraph). The project will support implementation of
activities started under FSDIP as well as a few other important initiatives. The project objective is to
reform SBP and improve the environment of the financial sector.
4. Indications of borrower commsitment and ownership:
The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) has already initiated the process to renew, build and strengthen its
institutional capacity. In February 2000, the Board of Directors approved a concept paper on future
directions of SBP, which were formulated through a broad consultative process involving the
management and staff, and was subsequently endorsed by top managers. The reform efforts have not
only continued over the last two years but their scope has been expanded to other important areas.
The management team has been directly involved in the 'Change' process and meets every week to
review progress and resolve issues. It has taken the initiative to organize workshops at regular
intervals on 'Change Management' to bring the staff on board for acceptability and successful
implementation. The management has, in addition, openly communicated its intentions of improving
SBP and its commitment to complete the initiated reforms, to the public.
The Government has fully supported SBP in its efforts. The Cabinet approved the separation of SBP
into a core central bank and a banking service corporation. This is a major step forward indicating
the resolve of the Government to continue reforms and improve the functioning of the Central Bank.
The President in a recent address to the nation, recognized and appreciated the reforms undertaken by
SBP and the role it has played in economic development.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
- 15 -



SBP has made significant progress in initiating and implementing far reaching reforms to improve its
capacity as a regulator. Bank support under FSDIP has had a deep impact on SBP's supervision
capacity through investment in its staff and information systems. This project would support
completion of the reforms initiated under FSDIP as well other initiatives for further strengthening the
human resource base, streamlining and strengthening the national payments system and improving
the quality and coverage of credit information services for a better banking/ business environment in
the country. In addition, the Bank has been involved in development of the banking sector in Pakistan
from the beginning start of the liberalization and reform process and has supported similar initiatives
in other developing countries. The Bank's extensive knowledge and experience in this area would be
highly valuable in affecting change and facilitating implementation of SBP's reform program. The
project would also complement broader sectoral reforms supported by the Government of Pakistan
and other donors including the IMF and ADB.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
There is no economic evaluation methodology for technical assistance projects. However, further
strengthening of SBP and enhancing the national payments system and credit information services in the
country are likely to have a significant positive impact on financial sector stability, general business
environment and economic development.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
Investment in technology and people will result in effective functioning of the central bank and impact
performance of the financial sector. Although these gains are difficult to quantify, failure of financial
institutions in the past and delays in recognition of these problems by the central bank have cost the country
billions of Rupees. Strengthening and streamlining of the national payments system would result in reduced
risk, efficient use of the available money stock, improved confidence in the banking system and
development of other financial services. In addition, strengthening the quality and extending coverage of
credit information services in the country would facilitate better allocation of credit in the economy,
improved borrower discipline, and reduction in the potential for moral hazard.
Fiscal Impact:
With enhanced capacity of SBP, the project is likely to result in fiscal space for the Government from
improved monetary management and reduced risk of bank failure. Also, strengthening of the payments
system would result in better and more efficient use of available money stock.
3. Technical:
The program would improve functioning of the central bank as a regulator of the banking system. By
enhancement in technology the program would also improve efficiency and monitoring skills. It will
increase the coverage of payment, clearing and settlement services and will assist in expanding the
role of CIB.
- 16 -



4. Institutional:
The institutional arrangements for project implementation at SBP are organically grafted into
existing line management for which there is strong management and institutional capacity enabling
implementation.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The State Bank of Pakistan will be the main executing agency for this project.
4.2 Project management:
A separate project management team has been setup within the State Bank to monitor
implementation. A Director of the State Bank who is also Director of Banking Inspection
Department, will head the team. The project team will also submit regular quarterly progress reports
to the Bank.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement arrangements are specified in Annex - 6. Procurement capacity of the State Bank will
be strengthened by the hiring of one individual procurement consultant for at least the first year of
the project, and through training provided by IDA before and after the project's effectiveness.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management system in place at the central bank is adequate and can generate required
financial statements for the project. Hence, normal supervision by Bank missions is recommended. The
flows of funds and accounting process, which will be adopted for TABS, has been observed to be
consistent and accurate.
Accounts of the project would be rnaintained by the Intemational Organizations Accounts Section that is
responsible for accounting functions of projects financed by donors. The expenditure would be incurred by
Expenditure and General Services Sections and SBP's Expenditure Regulations would be followed - joint
signatures are required for payments. All payments would be subject to pre-audit in the Accounts
Department and post-audit by Intemnal Audit Department.
SBP Project Management tean is responsible for coordination between Project Managers of each
component and SBP staff to facilitate the progress of the project.
Budgeting has been observed as a weak area in the overall financial management system. However, it has
been assured that arrangements would be put in place to produce and monitor detailed budget for the
project. Generally, the books of account are well kept and SBP's policies and working procedures for
accounting and financial reporting are adhered to. Internal control arrangements are by and large effective.
Disbursements: Reimbursement (of expenditure) against advance payments out of SBP's funds would be
done through Special Account to be maintained with National Bank of Pakistan, statements of which would
be regularly reconciled with the accounts. Disbursements would be made using transaction-based
procedures.
Audit: SBP has been in compliance of the audit and financial covenants as far as the other projecl. it is
implementing - FSDIP. Audited financial statements have been received on time and auditors have given
unqualified opinion in respect of Project/SOE and Special Account for FSDIP. The auditors have given a
qualified exception opinion on entily's accounts for FY'01 because of non-verification of assets
recoverable from the Reserve Bank of India and accrual of profit on various facilities granted to the
- 17 -



Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan. However, this has no implications on the project. An
unqualified audit report has been received in respect of the Structural Adjustment Credit for which SBP
was the implementing agency.
Projects financial statements and SOEs would be audited by a leading firm of Chartered Accountants
acceptable to the Bank.
5. Environmental:                  Environrnental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There is no direct adverse-environmental impact of the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the ETP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is not expected to have any adverse social impact. The State Bank has already offered
voluntary separation schemes (VSS) twice. The first offering was to staff with 25+ years service and
the second to staff with 20+ years service. The offerings were completely voluntary and the staff
were given additional incentives over and above their normal retirement benefits for separation/ early
retirement. Any additional VSS schemes will also be on the same principle to minimize any hardship
for staff choosing to leave.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
All policies of SBP are discussed with the stakeholders for their input, before implementation. This
includes financial sector institutions that fall under the regulation of SBP as well as SBP staff.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
This is a technical assistance project for institutional strengthening of the central bank and does not require
any consultations with civil society organizations.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
There are no social development outcomes expected from the project.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
- 18-



Same as above.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy,                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/]BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
It was determined that the project does not have a direct adverse environmental impact.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of reforms is assured by commitment of the top management at SBP and GOP as well
as by bringing about a fundamental change in the functioning of SBP. The way of doing business has
been changed and improved by modernizing systems and processes. This, augmented by a change in
mind set which is being brought about through workshops, seminars and training, will ensure
continuity and permanence of the reform process. SBP is striving for right skills and quality in
staffing, state of the art information systems and best practice in HR policies and procedures to be a
modem and effective central bank.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
SBP management and staff are not able to    S         Greater cormmitment at all levels and
affect 'Change'.                                      dissemination of 'Change' initiative for better
understanding and acceptability.
Staff are not ready or willing to accept    M         Communicating the new vision for the
new assigned roles.                                   organization and benefits of the improved
processes and systems. Training to develop staff
capability.
Business process re-engineering is not      M         SBP is already conducting regular workshops
timely or effective. End-users are not                for acceptance to change and benefits of the new
adequately trained and do not adopt new               systems. Staff need to be directly involved in
processes.                                            redesigning of business processeses. Scope and
frequency of training enhanced for staff at all
- 19-



levels.
Compatibility, reporting and linkage      N         Organizational arrangements have been put in
issues for RTGS implementation are not              place to ensure that all SBP and commercial
resolved.                                           bank stakeholders actively participate in the
system's design and specification process.
SBP management does not implement         N         Changes to strengthen and enhance the role of
recommendations for strengthening credit            credit information services are already under
information services.                               discussion both internally and externally with
the private sector. The scope likely to be taken
over by the private sector over time.
Lack of cooperation by financial sector   M         Conducting workshops and seminars for
institutions to effectively implement               stakeholders to raise awareness on issues related
policies for prevention of money                   to money laundering and financial fraud and its
laundering and financial fraud.                     consequences for the institutions and the
country.
From Components to Outputs
Policies and training not effective in    M         New policies and procedures are already being
retaining and/or attracting quality staff.         implemented and quality and skill mix is
Weak capacity of HR department to                   undergoing change. Additional focus on skill
implement new policies and sustain                  development including 'soft skills', career
change.                                             progression policy and recruitment of qualified
professionals.
Delay in deployment of new systems.       M         SBP project team is working with the vendors to
ensure timely deployment and transfer of
knowledge.
Delay in appointrnent of fimn to          M         Consultant to assist SBP finalize design and
implement RTGS.                                     specifications for the system already on board.
Consultants are also helping SBP prepare
bidding documents for hiring of firm to
implement RTGS.
Hiring of consultant to study credit      N         SBP is already preparing terms of reference and
inforrnation services delayed.                      procurement of these services is being
advertised.
Inadequate response of stakeholders to    M         SBP/SECP are in the process of raising
participate and benefit from trainings on           consciousness on the importance of preventing
money laundering.                                   money laundering and financial fraud through
discussions with financial sector institutions.
Trainings received by staff and           N         SBP has made NIBAF (the training center)
management are not effective.                       independent under new management. A
comprehensive plan for training is under
preparation which includes participation of
trainers from abroad tb supplement local
- 20 -



trainers/ training institutes as well as training
the trainers.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. The standard condition for credit effectiveness is the submission of a legal opinion confirming that the
Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and SBP, respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and SBP, respectively.
2. The Government and SBP will enter into a Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The FMRs requirement for TABS would include financial statements, physical progress reports and
procurement reports for project monitoring. SBP will provide the following quarterly financial statements:
1. Sources and Uses of Funds
2. Uses of Funds by Project Activity
3. Output Monitoring Report
4. Procurement Monitoring Report
In addition, SBP will also prepare progress reports on a quarterly basis. These reports would reflect the
linkage of financial information with the progress of the project. The IOAS maintains expenditure ledger
and fixed asset ledger where expenditure is recorded under each component. The formats of the following
Financial Monitoring Reports and annual audited financial statements have been discussed and agreed with
the International Organizations Accounts Section. Contents of the FMiRs would be agreed at negotiations.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design docurments for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 21 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
12 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
uda 1han                          arilo  ane D. Uy                Jo  W. Wa1
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Technical Assistance
, .Ke ' Pdrformance    Data Collecti'onStrategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          ..                        -Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Building an environment for  Improved functioning of the  Regular reports and feedback  Commitment to continue
private investment and     State Bank of Pakistan,  from SBP, the banking sector implementation of the
sustainable growth through an increased efficiency of  and private sector businesses. restructuring measures at all
efficient financial sector and a financial transaction and                    levels and true autonomy
strong and effective regulator. enhancing access to credit for                 granted to the DFIs.
the privatie sector.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Transform the State Bank of  * Better quality and     * Feedback from SBP staff  * Commitment of senior
Pakistan into an efficient    qualified personnel hired  (through survey), project  management in affecting
central bank by improving the  on merit through a       team and the banking      change.
standards, processes and      transparent and           community.
quality of personnel.         competitive process.    * New policy, procedures
* Compensation, rewards     and training manuals.
and prDmotions based on  * Quarterly progress
the performance           reports.
evaluation and linked to
the market.
* Trained and skilled staff
on board.
To improve SBP's business   * Better amd efficient    * Quarterly reporting on  * Business process
processes by implementing an  intemal functioning of    project implementation    re-engineering carried out
effective management          SBP.                      by the project            effectively and on time
information system and high  * Improved accessibility   management team.          with full ownership of
end connectivity for internal  and flow of information.                           management and
and external linkages.                                                            feedback of end users.
* Adequate and timely
training of end users.
Streamlining and            * Extension of electronic  * Reports from SBP and   * Expansion of services by
strengthening the national    clearing services to other  NIFT.                   NIFT.
payments system to reduce     major cities by NIFT    * Direct feedback from    * SBP management's
risk, improve efficiency and  * Implementation of special  banking sector.         commitment to improve.
provide an affordable platform  purpose large value
for the delivery of enhanced  RTGS system.
financial services.
Strengthening and extending  * Completing a           * Consultant reports.     * Recommendations of the
the scope of credit           comprehensive                                        study implemented.
information services through  assessment/ study of the
enhanced quality, and wider   existing credit
access.                       information systems for
compliance with best
international practice.
- 23 -



* Implementing
recommendations of the
study for access to better
quality data.
Improving confidence in and  * Improve legal and      * Report on new            * Commitment of the
health of the financial system  regulatory framework to  regulations for banks,    Govemment, regulators
for economic prosperity.      prevent money              NBFIs, securities market  and financial institutions
laundering and financial  and insurance             to implement.
fraud.
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
* New job roles assigned to  * HR audit completed with  * Staff survey report. Bank  * Commitment of SBP
all staff and successful  job profiling and new job  supervision reports.       management and Central
transition to new roles.   descriptions and roles.  * New HR policy             Board to adopt new
* Staff recruitment,       * Revised HR policies,      documents.                 policies.
transfer, promotion and    procedures and                                    * Willingness of staff to
compensation policies      performance management                               adopt to new assigned
revised. New evaluation   system implemented.                                   roles and their readiness
system functioning.     * HRMS implemented.                                     to accept change.
* Design completed and     * Training programs for all
tested.                    categories of staff
* Training imparted to new   developed and new staff
and existing staff. Staff  training and development
career development         policy implemented.
programs commenced.
* All financial transactions  * MIS including GLOBUS  * SBP progress reports,   * SBP management and
converted from manual to   bankirrg solution, Oracle  Bank supervision reports  staff commitment to
an electronic system and   ERP, and Data Ware        and user feedback.        implement new systems.
new work flows             House successfully      * Staff survey on new MIS.  * Transition from legacy to
established. Functioning   implemented and fully   * Feedback from banking      new systems managed
electronic mail system in  operational with complete  sector and the            successfully and staff
place. Data conversion     LAN and WAN in place.     Govemment.                 adapted to new systems.
and migration           * Staff trained on new                               * Banking sector also
successfully completed.   systems and modified                                  completely automated
* Staff conversant with the  business processes.                                  with compatible systems.
new technologies and    * Connectivity established
successfully migrated      between the SBP,
from legacy systems to     banking sector and MoF.
the new business
processes.
* Flow of information
electronically initiated
and functioning between
SBP, banking sector and
MoF.
* New processes introduced
and effective.
* Implementation of an     * Consultants engaged to  * Request for Proposal     * SBP management's
- 24 -



appropriate RTGS system   implement RTGS system.    document.                 commitment.
and liquidity           * Newv procedures/rules   * SBP progress reports.   * Successful resolution of
management tools.         devised.                * Bank supervision reports.  linkage, compatibility,
* Feedback of banking       and reporting issues
sector.                   between the SBP and the
banking sector.
* Study for strengthening  * Report submitted and   * Reports of expert/       * SBP management's
of credit information     discussed                 consultant.               commitment to enhance
services completed and                                                         the role of credit
recommendations                                                               information services in
implemented.                                                                  the country.
* Improved systems and    * Improved regulations to  * Progress reports from   * SBP, SECP and ECW
controls for preventing   control and prevent       SBP, SECP and ECW.         commitment to
financial fraud.          financial fraud and     * Reports from trainers.    implement and enforce.
* Enhanced capacity of       money laundering.      * Feedback from financial  * Willingness and
SBP and SECP to detect  * Trained SBP and SECP      institutions.              ownership of financial
money laundering and      staffon detection                                    sector institutions to build
financial fraud.          techniques.                                          awareness and comply.
* Improved capacity of    * Trained ECW staff to
ECW and judiciary to      investigate financial
enforce.                  fraud and effective
* Increased awareness on     banking court judges to
financial fraud/ money    proce3s cases.
laundering and its      * Seminars and workshops
consequences.             on mconey laundering.
* Enhanced capacity and   0 Staff trained on technical  * Quarterly reports from  * Management ownership
skills of SBP staff and   skills. Management         SBP.                     to organize regular
management.               traine(d on 'soft skills' and  * Staff survey.      training and create an
* Increased information for  leaders3hip.            * Reports from trainers.    atmosphere for personal
development of financial  * Studies and reports by  * Reports from consultants.  development in the staff.
markets.                  consultants on best
* Improved functioning       practice for development
and increased research    of financial markets.
capacity of Ministry of  * Research staff hired from
Finance, (Banking         private sector. Adequate
Wing).                    tools provided to staff and
researchers for effective
functioning.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Human resource development US$1.12 mnillion           * SBP Quarterly progress  * HR department
reports                   strengthened and new
effective policies
implemented.
- 25 -



Technology up-gradation   US$16.63 million           * Reports from project   * The vendor and the
management team.         project team successfully
* Bank supervision reports.  deploy new systems
following time lines of
project plan.
Improving the national    US$5.0 million            * SBP progress report     * Firm engaged to
payments and settlement                             * Implementation reports of  implement RTGS.
systems.                                               consulting engaged.    * Commitment of SBP and
* Bank supervision reports  banking sector managers.
* Feedback from banking
sector.
Strengthening credit      US$0.60 million           * Reports of              * Qualified expert/
information services                                   expert/consultant.       consultant engaged to
* Feedback from financial   carry out the study
sector institutions.   * Willingness of SBP
management to proceed
with recommendations.
Anti money laundering and  US$0.80 million           * SBP reports on progress  * Seminars and training are
financial fraud                                        with regulations, training  conducted with
and seminars.            participation of all
* Feedback from financial   stakeholders.
sector institutions.   * There is support from
international agencies to
provide expertise.
Banking sector strengthening  US$4.65 million        * Quarterly reports.     * SBP staff and
and capacity building,                               * Consultant reports.      management receive
including preparation for                                                       regular and effective
Habib Bank privatization                                                        training.
* Due diligence for Habib
Bank privatization
completed.
-26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Technical Assistance
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.12 miillion
Human Resource Development: For years, the State Bank lagged behind in the development of its Human
Resource. The outlook of the governments in power and the political economy perpetuated this despondent
state of affairs. Unions blindly supported the 'promotion on seniority' policy, as a result of which, merit
and performance were overlooked. Many employees, however mediocre, rose to levels of seniority merely
by serving time in the organization. There were no incentives to excel, only to perform the assigned job and
carry out orders.
The World Bank has been assisting SBP transform into a modem, dynamic and effective central bank by
providing assistance in implementing Human Resource Development reforms and in changing its operating
environment. These reforms could only be undertaken in parallel with reforms in other areas, such as IT,
initiatives of training/skill enhancement and Change Management 'Framework' for disseminating values
and providing a platform for behavioral change. The human resource reforms were initiated under FSDIP.
To advise and undertake human resource restructuring and development, SBP engaged the services of a
Human Resource Adviser from Bank Negara (Central Bank of Malaysia) who was involved in similar
institutional reforms in Malaysia's Central Bank. In addition, SBP appointed a firm to carryout a human
resource audit. Implementation of ihese activities is currently underway and includes:
HR Adviser: HR Adviser has designed several key HR interventions over the last year, including:
1. Restructuring of the HR Department - some members of the HR Adviser's team have been placed in
key positions within the Departnent to build capacity and disseminate learning.
2. Recruitment of 211 appropriately qualified officers in key operational areas has been undertaken,
significantly upgrading professionalism of the organization. Successful and comprehensive training at
induction has been delivered to all such new recruits, together with a mentoring program.
3. An early retirement scheme has been implemented in two phases. There has been significant take-up of
both (338 for the scheme for those with 25+ years service, and 490 for the scheme covering lower level
employees with 20+ years of service).
In addition to the work of the HR Aclviser, two Change Management Workshops have been conducted with
focus groups set up to follow through on key strategic areas of change.
HR Audit Consultants (Sidat Hvder): Sidat Hyder was amongst the firms who tendered for, and won, the
contract to carry out an 'HR Audit'. The initial ToR was to review each position in the State Bank, write
job descriptions for them, assess key skills and competencies, determine skills gaps, develop a performance
appraisal system, carry out a training needs analysis, and develop policies and best practices in recruitment
and career development.
These terns of reference were amended during the bidding stage to take account of work already
completed, accelerated or underway by the HR Adviser, or which had been identified as priority areas
which still needed attention. The ToR now reflect key gaps which still exist plus important levers to bring
about change and improved ways of working/an improved way of working. The ToR also include an
analysis of the impact of the work of Ihe Adviser to date (i.e. on the validity and viability of the
Competency Model, Career Development Policy, and Performance Appraisal System) together with
- 27 -



particular emphasis on compensation, leadership assessment and review of other policies being designed by
the HR Adviser, but not yet implemented. The latter is to ensure continuity and to allow for firm proposals
for implementation after the term of the Adviser has been completed.
The consultants have delivered their initial inception report and provided feedback to the State Bank Senior
Management Team.
HR restructuring activities supported under the project: The HR Adviser is due to complete her-assignment
in June 2002, and has made considerable progress in designing key policies. However, much remains to be
done, particularly on implementation. Likewise, the HR Audit Team of Sidat Hyder is due to complete their
work in the above areas by end 2002. The HR Audit team was specifically asked to focus on certain key
areas. Remaining gaps which primarily include development of a grievance system and further types of
training which were not covered mainly due to availability of qualified trainers, are to be addressed at a
later stage. Other areas that need to be addressed under the project include:
I. Recruitment of appropriately qualified HR staff to further build capacity, implement and fine tune
policies, and sustained effort by senior staff to turn the HR Department's role into that of an adviser.
2. Training in 'soft skills', particularly around management of change and culture, including HR skills for
line managers, giving feedback, managing performance, coaching etc.
3. Appointment of well-regarded senior level trainers from around the world to supplement intemal
programs.
Next steps with respect to implementation of HR Reforms that will be supported by the project include:
1. Work on areas outlined above by the HR Audit team, following agreement of revised Terms of
Reference by SBP.
2. Amendments/ Adjustments to the newly designed HR policies brought out by HR Adviser will be
amended or adjusted as required, following recommendations by consultants, particularly on
compensation framework and career development policy.
3. Training plans, recruitment plans and redundancy plans will be developed from the training needs
analysis, job analysis, and recruitmnent analysis prepared by the HR Audit team. This will pave the way
for the introduction of individualized career and training plans to be prepared, later, also linked to
performance management system.
4. Managerial skills training will be stepped up (and may include use of assessment centers to assess and
develop skills). Also there may be some HR management skills training provided for line managers
(e.g. on behavioral interviewing).
5. Implementation of compensation system will be carried out based on analysis done by HR Audit team.
6. Analysis of remaining gaps in HR policies and refinement of existing ones to make them more
sophisticated, or move ahead to next phase (e.g. revise HRMIS system completely around new policies,
rather than existing ones as is currently the case). These changes require staff to adapt to new ways of
working and their ownership and understanding of the new policies thus far.
Project Component 2 - US$16.63 million
Technology Up-gradation: This component would support completion of the automation project as
designed in the Inforrnation System Strategy Plan formulated under the Financial Sector Deepening and
Intermediation Project. Technology enhancement will allow regular flow of consistent information for the
central bank to play a pro-active role in banking supervision and take timely actions when needed. Already,
the base infrastructure has been successfully installed at the head office and initial deployment of the
banking package (Globus), ERP package (Oracle Financials) and the data warehouse is being implemented.
- 28 -



Completion of the automation project includes expansion of the systems to 15 branch offices beyond the
Central Directorate and Karachi Office including; entire roll out of Globus, ERP/Oracle financial and
networking of the branch offices.
Banking Systems - GLOBUS: As the main banking system, Globus will help SBP achieve; compliance
with intemational banking standards, availability of reliable information, ease of introducing new products
into the market, as well as efficiency and controls. Significant progress has been made as per/according to
the project plan including the completion of UATs for 90% of the functionality (FOREX, Govt. Securities,
Govt. banking). Simultaneously EIPR workshops are being conducted that include business staff,
executives, auditors to review "A; Is" and design of "To Be" processes. UATs for the remaining 10%
functions such as letter of credits, over draft, share transfer, IMF loans, Asian Clearing Union and ICU is
continuing. Also re-testing of items identified from the UATs is underway. Mock banking exercise
commenced this month for all functions supported by GLOBUS. This combined with UATs will provide
sufficient coverage of all functions, so that SBP management could launch the system, likely by end April
2002. Definition of mapping staff to roles and assignment of security profiles remains to be completed.
BPR will identify redundant processes and assessment of staff that will be needed to run the new functions.
This will enable the definition of rDles, mapping of staff to these roles and assignment of security profile.
SBP's ability to operationalize GLOBUS has been strengthened with the training of 10 SBP staff and 4
consultants in Globus technology .nd procedures. A Knowledge Transfer Plan is to be prepared to ensure
that all GLOBUS functions are covered and SBP staff are adequately trained. A contingency plan has been
prepared to mitigate risks. However, implementation risks are low since Globus is a commercial package
software and should perform at SEP.
The project supports implementation and branch roll out of Globus with the following additional modules:
1. Custom-built systems for export refinance and integration of currency, housing refinance window,
depository functions (loan floated by the government and special government bonds), and to take care
of impact of subsidiary.
2. Roll out of Globus to SBP brarnches including mapping of staff, training and WAN connectivity.
3. Assessment of Globus functionality to identify new processes and practices that may be implemented in
ERP.
ERP Oracle: ERP will integrate all departmental functions related to financial accounting, human
resources, budgeting, payroll, procurement, inventory and asset management. Implementation has made
significant progress including the completion of definition, operations analysis and solution design phases.
Currently the project is in the build phase and conference r-ooms pilots are being held so that the users can
comment on customized versions of their processes. The build phase will be followed by transition and
production phases including UAT for a target 'go-live' date of May 2002 for Finance and Distribution, and
for HR and Payroll, of April 2002. 13PR for ERP processes is being undertaken. While, customization of
reports, preparation of UAT test packs, conversion strategy and responsibility definition and security
profile assessment is to be completed. Under the project, following activities would be supported:
1. ERP changes needed to cater for the SBP and subsidiary split, including consolidation of accoumts and
custom-built packages such as Oracle Alter Manager, Self Service Web Applications and Oracle
Workflow.
2. Implementation of an HR self service kiosk.
3. Implementation of an OLAP finmncial analyzer for end user reporting.
4. Oracle workflow implementation.
Data warehouse: Data Warehouse is a central repository of information that provides comprehensive and
high integrity data in a form suitable for decision support to end users and to the decision makers. In the
- 29 -



changed environment, it has become essential that systems and data structures are redesigned for
sustainability and scalability. Although this activity is currently behind schedule, progress has been made in
the area of EPD and Statistics and the rationalization of 45 reports into 4 database structures. A pilot data
acquisition process has been developed. The project supports implementation of the following activities:
1. BPR and additional subject areas including access to organizational data, interactive query, analysis
and presentation of data, modeling and forecasting and object and multi-dimensional data analysis.
2. Data conversion and data flow from different applications into the data warehouse.
3. Custom-built packages such as OLAP Financial Services, Oracle Express Analyzer, Oracle 9i/AS
Clickstream Intelligence and Business Intelligence Beans.
Hardware and Networking: Significant progress has been made with 584 PCs deployed, 5 servers in
operation. Additional 219 PCs are being installed. Networking in SBP Karachi offices is substantially
completed including LAN and radio linked WAN between three offices. Reassessment during
implementation ascertained a requirement of 2804 nodes. This revision has brought about significant design
change resulting in the enhanced scope of work in networking. Including the additional requirement, the
project would support:
1. Procurement of 925 desktop and 120 laptop computers.
2. 200 Network, 25 Personal and 10 High End Printers.
3. Completion of LAN setup including cabling at Karachi Office.
4. Connecting regional offices through VSAT, digital cross connect and dial up link - WAN.
5. To ensure quality power supply power generators, voltage stabilizers, UPS and related infrastructure
shall also be included in this component.
SBP has planned to deploy an intemal ISP operation to handle internet connectivity, mail, web hosting and
nationwide internet contact provision. This will provide a higher level of service to SBP and will ease
management/ administration while making efficient use of free bandWidth on backup WAN links. The
proposed ISP setup will allow SBP to meet: (i) reduce internet connectivity costs for the entire network, (ii)
reduce dependence on third party service providers, (iii) ease of deploying and updating the SBP website,
(iv) guarantee security in hosting of website, and (v) secure e-mail connectivity.
Training and Change management: This is an extremely important element of this entire effort. The project
team has successfully trained staff in oracle, Globus and O/A. Under the current plans further training
programs on oracle, O/A, networking and systems will also be conducted. This is, however, an ongoing
exercise. The project would support completion of these training programs in networking and O/A, as well
as programs during transition and prior to switch over. In addition, the project will support change
management initiatives so that SBP is fully prepared to accept the new systems and processes.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.00 million
Strengthening and Streamlining National Payments System: As part of SBP's reform program, a
specific component on payments system was developed to strengthen and streamline the national payments
system infrastructure, to ensure that appropriate services are available and satisfy the evolving needs of all
sectors of the economy in a manner that balances operational cost, processing efficiency and credit,
liquidity, and systemic risk. The payments system component will assist SBP acquire, test, and implement a
Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) capability to process large value and other time critical funds
transfers including its integration with the scripless government securities systems to provide model 1 DvP,
and the automated general ledger and accounting system to provide on-line account balance monitoring
capabilities for commercial bank treasurers. The resulting system will also provide an appropriate set of
liquidity management tools to enable commercial bank treasurers to make optimum use of the liquidity
available within the financial system and will provide the infrastructure necessary to support an active
- 30 -



interbank money market
The SBP recognizes that they have limited knowledge of RTGS systems and their operation. Therefore,
they have acquired the services of an experienced consulting team - CAL - to assist in preparing a
comprehensive set of Requirement Specifications to communicate SBP's current and future needs in a
non-ambiguous manner to prospective suppliers of RTGS software and related implementation services.
The consultants are already on site and, in conjunction with SBP officials, will ensure that the resulting
system;
*   is convenient and easy to use;
*   is flexible and modularlv expandable and thus will accommodate future changes in volumes
and financial sector services;
*   will allow for universality of access and thus make it possible for all potential direct
participants, when accepted, to connect to the system;
*   will have high levels of reliability with particular emphasis on data integrity and security thus
preventing unauthorized disclosure or change of inforrnation;
*   will have high levels of service availability utilizing appropriate back-up facilities and failure
recovery mechanisrris;
*   will allow for auditing and tracing of all transactions;
*   will have appropriate levels of operational performnance ensuring reasonable response times
and vendors share the responsibility of successful implementation;
*   will satisfy intemational best practice as described in the BIS CPSS Core Principles for
Systemically Important Payment Systems; and
*   is affordable to use.
SBP also recognizes that the success of the RTGS initiative will require active participation from all key
stakeholders. A number of critical decisions relating to policy, organizational, technical, and operational
matters will be required and will impact all participants. Organizational arrangements have been
established to ensure that all SBP and commercial bank stakeholders have an opportunity to actively
participate in the system's conceptual design and detailed specification process. The project consultants
have had a range of initial discussions with all stakeholders and NIFT, the provider of electronic low value
payment services and have acquired an understanding of all substantial policy, organizational, technical
and operational issues that need to be addressed in the design of the Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
system and its interface with the Globus general ledger system that is now nearing completion. Specific
attention is being paid to the impact that the new RTGS system will have on the services being provided by
NIFT. It is estimated that some 5% ol the current NIFT transactions representing about 60% of the value
of all NIFT transactions will be processed through the RTGS system and thus the impact on NIFT will be
small as the company generates its income from transaction volume and other specialized services to the
commercial banks.
All funds transfers will be settled on a real time basis using gross settlement mechanisms. The settlement of
govenmuent securities transfers will be on a real-time Delivery versus Payment (DvP). The envisaged
system architecture is depicted in the following diagram:
- 31 -



tl.TGS Components
Paying Bank                     Payee bank
Browser-based
FW                   Workstations u           FM      MBT
nt instruction
nd account      \                                  Co nfi rmafio n
bank                                           advice
ary and account
ent amount
i7leference
Settlement
I FTP               confirmation
SAP              G1lous
'Copy    State Bank of Pakistan
0         'R
Core system functionality has already been the subject of discussions with SBP and financial institution
participants and prelimninary decisions have been made in regard to critical matters including: (a) system
membership; (b) settlement accounting; (c) relationship with the mandatory reserve regime; (d) intra-day
liquidity provisioning; (e) queue management; (f) gridlock resolution; (g) account balance monitoring; (h)
transaction monitoring and audit trails; (i) routine and special purpose reporting; (j) reconciliation; (k)
interfaces with other systems; (1) system reliability and failure recovery including disaster recovery; and
(m) data security.
To reduce project implementation risk and to take advantage of the fact that most commercial banks are
already members of SWIFT, the RTGS system will make appropriate use of the SWIFT financial
messaging system and will use either the Y-copy or V-shape topology.
Comprehensive bidding documents are expected to be available for issue to qualified RTGS software
suppliers by mid June 2002 and will require the successful vendor to supply a fully operational system. The
vendor will undertake all necessary unit, integration, operational readiness and user acceptance testing and
will be required to provide all necessary training of SBP and participant personnel. In addition, the vendor
will be required to operate the system for an initial period of not less than three month as an integral
component of a rigorous technology transfer process.
System acquisition and implementation costs have been estimated as not exceeding USD 4.5 million and
will cover the following: (a) acquisition and installation of a comprehensive and robust RTGS system
within a time period of about 16 calendar months for implementation after inception; (b) all necessary
training of SBP and commercial bank operational, IT and treasury personnel; (c) services of a dedicated
project manager and other advisory assistance during system implementation; (d) educational visits by
relevant SBP personnel to central banks that have already installed an RTGS system to enhance
understanding and increase confidence; and (e) specialist legal advice in establishing an appropriate legal
- 32 -



infrastructure for the new system ensuring provisioing of final and irrevocable immediate settlement of
payment instructions on an intra-day basis.
A realistic cost recovery and pricing policy will be designed and implemented to assure a fair mechanism is
in place to recover all operating costs and an appropriate share of the investment costs. Project preparation
is being undertaken in a robust manner and SBP is well prepared to realize the sought after benefits.
Project Component 4 - US$0.60 million
Strengthening Credit Information Services: The Credit Information Bureau (CEB) was established in
1989. Comprehensive and well functioning credit information systems are recognized by SBP as being
critical components of a robust financial sector infrastructure as such systems facilitate better allocation of
credit in the economy, more accurate prediction of repayment probability, more accurate pricing and
targeting of credit, more efficient and consistent application of credit policy, improved borrower discipline,
increased incentives to repay, more accurate assessment of overall credit risk, and reduction in the potential
for moral hazard. The existing system is a semi automated system that relies on a paper based input-output
mechanisms. The information contained in the system database has been enhanced over time in line with the
evolving needs of the participants for more comprehensive information. The technical platform used by the
system has also been enhanced over time.
Current experience confirms that the CIB provides a valuable and required service to the credit community
- both providers and users of credit - in a low cost manner. However, current system scope is limited and
captures information relating only to relatively large corporate loans in excess of 500,000 rupees. There is
a clear market need to extend the scope of the system to cover middle market borrowing, and small
enterprise and consumer borrowing. In addition, SBP personnel are aware that the policy, legal and
operational issues surrounding the design of credit information services have received substantial recent
attention throughout the global financial community. Specifically, SBP wish to have access to best
international practice for use in assessing the current SBP mechanisms with a view to identifying
worthwhile and cost effective enhancements. The CIB component of the project will assist SBP realize the
sought after benefits through three specific activities: (a) strengthening the existing system to ensure that
optimum benefits are provided to participants consistent with best international practice; (b) developing a
comprehensive SBP policy in regard to how system scope should be improved and the role that should be
played by private sector credit infomiation providers including the role of rating agencies; (c) improving the
knowledge and skills of a small group of SBP specialists; and (d) enhancing the current technical platform
to provide a basis for on-line secure connectivity with users and thus enhance system efficiency and
effectiveness.
A core initial component of the project will be a comprehensive comparative analysis of the current
situation in Pakistan against best international practice in regard to policy, legal & regulatory, system
design, operation, and technical factors. Outline Terms of Reference for this study have been agreed. In
addition to identifying the specific strengthening needs of the CIB; the study will also focus on a number of
specific matters including: (a) scope, accuracy, security and timeliness of data; (b) opportunity for
borrowers to certify the accuracy of data maintained in the system (as well as the opportunity for the record
to contain a note of the borrowers viewv in cases where the lenders view is not complete); (c) the need to
strengthen regulations (for example the need for some form of Fair Credit Reporting mechanisms as this
will be especially important should the. system be widened to cover small enterprise and consumer
borrowing); (d) an assessment of the methodologies used by the two rating agencies now operating in
Karachi; (e) recommendations relating to the policy to be adopted by SBP in regard to the creation of a
separate entity to provide small business and consumer credit information; and (f) a cost effective strategy
- 33 -



for improving the technical information technology architectural arrangements to realize on-line
connectivity with participants. This latter activity would also identify the factors that would be used to
determine the degree to which the CIB IT requirements might be satisfied through an appropriate form of
integration with the central SBP IT capability that is now being created.
Next steps include the development of comprehensive TORs for the critical foundation study and the
issuance of an appropriate Expressions of Interest notification to identify those organizations that have
appropriate knowledge and experience to undertake the work to a high level of quality. In addition, the
project team will provide SBP with material describing current best practice including the results of recent
research undertaken by the Bankl This material will both assist SBP in understanding the ways in which
specific public policy and legal issues are being resolved in other countries as well as upgrading the
knowledge of relevant SBP personnel.
Project Component 5 - US$0.80 million
Anti Money Laundering and Financial Fraud: The State Bank of Pakistan and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, being the regulatory and supervisory authorities for banks, non bank financial
institutions (NBFIs) and the capital markets have initiated measures to strengthen their institutions to
control and prevent of money laundering activities. The central bank is already focusing on formulating
rules and regulations to ensure compliance. Measures initiated so far include issuance of Prudential
Regulations to banks, NBFIs Rules of Business, freezing of accounts, educating the supervisory staff,
communicating with Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Foreign Affairs on relevant issues and ensuring
that banks and NBFIs have 'know your customer' (KYC) rules which are strictly adhered. Moreover
banks are assessed by the on-site examiners of the State Bank of Pakistan who evaluate the KYC policies
and procedures of banks during their inspections. Deviations/violations from Prudential Regulations and
Rules of Business are reported for necessary and bank/NBFI found in violation is penalized. Violation may
also lead to calling explanation from Chief Executive/ President and proceedings by the concerned
authority against the responsible officials.
The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has made 40 recommendations which provide the basis for anti
money laundering activities. SBP has done its own assessment based on FATF 40 recommendations and
its status is provided in the following table.
FATF Recommendations                      Implementation Status and SBP Comments
Criminalizing laundering of proceeds of   Under the Purview of Ministry of Interior and
serious crimes (Recommendation 4) and     Narcotic Control and National Accountability Bureau.
enacting measure to seize and confiscate the
proceeds of crime (Recommendation 7).
Requiring financial institutions to identify all  The Recommendations 10-12 are covered under SBP
clients, including any beneficial owner of  Prudential Regulation No. XII and NBFIs Rule 22.
property, and to keep appropriate records
(Recommendations 10 to 12)
Requiring financial institutions to report  Recomnmendation 15 covered under Chapter IX,
suspicious transactions to the competent national  Clause 67 of Control of Narcotic Substance Act,,
authorities (Recommendations 15) and to   1997, and Clause 20 of National Accountability
implement a comprehensive range of internal  Bureau Ordinance, 1999 in terms of which the banks
-34 -



control measures. (Recommendation 19)      and financial institutions are required to report
suspicious transactions to Director General of
Anti-Narcotics Force and to Chairman NAB
respectively.
Banks and Financial Institutions are also required to
properly investigate the suspicious transactions. Under
Prudential Regulation XII and NBFIs Rule 22
Recommendation 19 covered under Prudential
Regulation No. XII, and NBFIs Rule 22 in terms of
which banks and financial institutions are required to
make arrangements for setting up an Internal Audit
System in order to establish an effective means of
testing/checking and compliance with bank and NBFI
policies and procedures.
Ensuring adequate system for the control and  SBP Prudential Regulation No. XII, and NBFIs Rule
supervision of financial institutions      22 cover this Recommnendation by and large as the
(Recommendations 26-29)                    Banks and Financial Institutions are instructed to
impart suitable training to members and staff and to
setup an internal Audit system in order to establish an
effective means of checking/testing and compliance
with the bank policy and procedure. SBP also
co-operate and lend expertise to other domestic
judicial or law enforcement authorities like NAB
As far as Recommendation 27 is concerned the
Prudential Regulation XII and NBFIs Rule 22
instructs the banks and financial Institutions to
properly investigate the suspicious transaction.
Moreover in terms of Chapter IX, Clause 67 of
Control of Narcotic Substance Act, 1997 and in terrns
of clause 20 of National Accountability Bureau
Ordinance, 1999 banks and financial institutions are
required to report suspicious transactions to Director
General of Anti-Narcotics Force and to Chairman
NAB respectively.
As far as Recommendation 28 is concerned these sorts
of guidelines are not present in existing
laws/regulations. However, may be incorporated.
Establishing international treaties or agreements  Steps taken to formulate money laundering legislation
and to pass national legislation that will allow  by setting u.p a working group on Ministry level,
countries to provide prompt and effective  headed by Ministry of Finance and consisting of
international cooperation at all levels    representatives of Ministries of Law and Justice,
(Recommendations 32-40)                    Interior, State Bank of Pakistan, National
.____________ _  Accountability Bureau, and FIA to draft an effective
- 35 -



and comprehensive legislation to provide for an
institutional framework for monitoring and regulating
money laundering transactions. This working group
will provide a platform for the
cooperation/coordination of different agencies engaged
to combat money laundering and related activities. It
will also facilitate international cooperation.
Pakistan is also a member of Asia Pacific Group on Money Laundering and is actively engaged in their
meetings/workshops. In addition, the Anti Narcotic Force and National Accountability Bureau (including
the Economic Crimes Wing of the Federal Investigation Authority) are investigation authorities and are
engaged in prosecution of money laundering activities. On SBP's initiative a Working Group headed by
Ministry of Finance, and consisting of representatives of Ministries of Law and Justice, Interior, SBP,
SECP, NAB and FIA has been- constituted to draft an effective and comprehensive legislation to provide for
an institutional framework for monitoring and regulating money laundering transactions.
The Control of Narcotic Substance (CNS) Act, 1997 and National Accountability Bureau (NAB)
Ordinance 1999 already have provisions for curbing money laundering activities. Clause (67) of Chapter
IX of CNS Act, 1997 and clause 20 of NAB Ordinance, 1999 banks and financial institutions are required
to report suspicious transactions to Director General of Anti-Narcotics Force and Chairman NAB
respectively. Failure to supply such information in accordance with the provisions of CNS Act and NAB
Ordinance, is punishable with rigorous imprisonment, which may extend to 3 years or with fine, or with
both under CNS Act and 5 years or with fine, or with both under NAB Ordinance.
SECP has also taken several initiatives to counter money laundering including requirement of KYC policies
for securities' market brokers. Plans are under preparation which include strengthening of systems for
monitoring and surveillance of securities markets, broker licensing and certification criteria, disclosure
requirements and standards, and creating awareness in the investor community. Training sessions and
seminars will be held to create awareness among key stakeholders, such as creditors and institutional
investors. In addition, workshops will be arranged under the auspices of major academic institutions, which
will focus on significant corporate governance issues. For the benefit of public at large, brochures and
guidelines will be published to develop their knowledge and understanding of the main perspectives and
framework of corporate govemance and help them integrate its various dimensions.
A Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) by the IMF/Bank team is expected to take place during
the current year. The program covers an assessment of systems in place for monitoring and enforcement of
suspicious transactions and money laundering. SBP/ SECP would utilize results of FSAP that are identified
for compliance under the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) principals. It is, however, recognized that
while compliance with principals is important, bringing necessary change in culture and mindset is critical.
For this reason, capacity of all the institutions involved needs to be strengthened to make a real difference.
Training of key staff is essential for SBP - to regulate the banking sector; SECP - to regulate the
securities markets, NBFIs and insurance sector; AML unit of Economic Crimes Wing (ECW) of the
Federal Investigation Authority - for enforcement; and the judiciary - for execution. Specifically, the
project includes: (i) seminars/ workshops for the financial sector to create awareness; will include a broad
based campaign to increase awareness of commercial banks and other financial sector institutions
conducting seminar in main business centers of the country as well as publications on the subject; (ii)
training and capacity building of the two regulators, enforcement agency and judiciary through SBP; will
- 36 -



include foreign and local training in coordination with FATF, Asian Pacific Group on money laundering,
IMF and the Bank. To enhance sharing of information the component would finance participation of
relevant agencies and officials in international conferences and working groups; and (iii) enhancements in
the existing computer systems for monitoring and record keeping; to enhance enforcement initially the
project would support a pilot to slrengthen the Karachi AML unit of the Economic Crimes Wing of the
Federal Investigation Authority.
Project Component 6- US$4.65 million
Banking Sector Capacity Building: SBP has, over the past few years, strengthened its capacity for
effective regulation and development of the financial markets. This was achieved largely through training
of key staff and consultant suppolt. Various studies were conducted in the areas of under- served markets,
market structure (including Islamic banking) and regulation of deposit taking/ non-deposit taking
institutions. The study on under-served sectors, in fact, led to a paradigm shift in the strategy for
development banking sector. In addition, SBP took an initiative for developing the housing finance market.
This initiative was also supported by the Bank under which a review was carried out covering the role of
existing market players and future prospects for the sector. TABS would support further work in these
areas including small and medium enterprises, housing and rural finance.
The project would assist SBP and policy makers keep pace with developments in global financial markets
through participation in seminars End specialized training programs. It would support the privatization of
the nationalized commercial banks. It would also assist in developing research capabilities within the SBP
and the Ministry of Finance (banking wing). Specifically, the project would finance: (i) provision of
specialized training in 'soft skills' areas, particularly management of change and culture; (ii) appointment
of well-regarded senior level trainers from abroad to bring in new ideas to supplement internal programs
and courses offered within Pakistan; (iii) taking part in international seminars and conferences; (iv) hiring
consultants/ advisers to support training needs, IT and HR functions; (v) conducting studies for
development of financial markets and services including a comprehensive diagnostic study of the operations
and on-going restructuring of Habib Bank Limited. The results of this exercise will be the made available
by the SBP to pre qualified potential parties interested in acquisition of Habib Bank; and (vi) building
capacity at the Ministry of Finance (banking wing) for strategy and policy making to keep abreast of
developments in the sector.
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Technical Assistance
-Local       Foreign       Total
.Proj|ect Cost By Component, :   .,     US:$miilion  US $million,  US $million
Human Resource Development                                0.25         0.87         1.12
Infornation Technology                                    1.85        14.78        16.63
Payment Systems                                           0.50         4.50         5.00
Strengthening Credit Information System                   0.10         0.50         0.60
Anti Money Laundering/Financial Fraud                     0.10         0.70         0.80
Banking Sector Strengtheing & Capacity Building           1.00         3.65         4.65
Total Baseline Cost                                       3.80        25.00        28.80
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00         1.50         1.50
Price Contingencies                                      0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs'             3.80         26.50        30.30
Total Financing Required              3.80         26.50        30.30
,; ., -,, ,- ,-Local  Foreign  Total
Project Cost By,Category               US $million   US $million  US $million
Goods                                                      2.40          19.63        22.03
Works                                                       0.00          0.00         0.00
Services                                                    1.40          3.90         5.30
Training                                                    0.00          1.47         1.47
Unallocated                                                0.00           1.50         1.50
Total Project Costs      3.80         26.50         30.30
TtlPoect Costs
Total Financing Required      3.80         26.50         30.30
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 30.3 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 87.46% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 38 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Technical Assistance
As a technical assistance credit, project benefits cannot be measured in monetary terms. Strengthening and
enhancing institutional capacity oPf SBP is likely to have significant gains with stability of the financial
sector and its contribution to economic development
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 39 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Technical Assistance
Years Ending
Y Year 1  | Year 2  | Year 3     Year 4  | Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         10.2        9.0       5.6       4.1       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0       0.0       1.2       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs        10.2       9.0        6.8       4.1       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Financing            10.2       9.0        6.8       4.1       0.0       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  9.0       8.0       6.0       3.5       0.0       0.0       0.0
Govemment                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                       1.2        1.0       0.8       0.6       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    10.2       9.0       6.8       4.1       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 40 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Technical Assistance
Procurement
Procurement Capacity
6.01   An assessment of the Implementing Agency's procurement capacity was carried out by a
Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) during the appraisal mission and was discussed with the implementing
agency. The main findings are as follows:
Organization
6.02   The existing procurement capacity of the implementing agency i.e. the State Bank of Pakistan,
requires strengthening to be able to effectively carry out the expected project procurement in accordance
with agreed procedures. The existing staff have little knowledge and experience of IDA's procurement
procedures. Procurement support inder the previous FSDIP project (Ln. 3808-Pak) was provided
primarily by consultants who are no longer available.
6.03   The procurement capacity of the State Bank will be strengthened through engagement of
consultants and training to enable the implementing agency to effectively carry out procurement under the
project. The State Bank will engage a qualified individual procurement consultant for at least the first year
of the project. The procurement consultant will serve as the focal point for all procurement matters under
the project, and will provide comprehensive procurement support including procurement planning and
monitoring, preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of bids, and contracts, and overall guidance in
complying with agreed procurement procedures. The State Bank will engage the procurement consultant
under the Project by September 30, 2002 after the Project has become effective.
6.04   IDA will assist in capacity building by conducting procurement training workshops for key
procurement staff of the State Bank, before the start and during implementation of the project, in order to
improve and update their knowledge of IDA's procurement procedures. The dates for these workshops will
be mutually agreed.
Procurement Procedures
6.05   The procurement procedures of the State Bank were reviewed. Procurement procedures were found
to be broadly based on competitive methods of selection. There is also a system for internal
review/clearances through established committees. It was however noted that there are some differences
between the procurement procedures of the State Bank and IDA, such as in the use of
pre-qualification/post-qualification procedures, IDA's open eligibility requirements vs the State Bank's
stated practice of excluding foreign firms, which is unacceptable under IDA procedures. Such differences
will be removed through application of IDA's Procurement Guidelines which will govern all procurement
of Goods financed under the Project. Consultants' services will be procured in accordance with IDA's
Consultant Guidelines. The specific procurement arrangements described below are designed to ensure
conformrity with the Bank's procurement procedures.
- 41 -



Procurement Methods (Table A)
6.06   Goods to be financed under the project shall be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January 1999. Consultants
Services financed under the project shall be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised January 1999. In case of
conflict between IDA's procurement procedures and any national rules and regulations, IDA's procurement
procedures would take precedence.
6.07   The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and bid evaluation forms for procurement under
Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB), and sample bidding documents and bid evaluation forms for
procurement under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) which are already in use on other IDA financed
projects in Pakistan, will be used for procurement of Goods. IDA's Standard Request for Proposal
document and evaluation form will be used in the selection of Consulting firms.
6.08   All expected procurement of goods and consultants' services will be listed in the project's General
Procurement Notice (GPN) to be published in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB). A
consolidated GPN for the whole project has been published in the UNDB and will be updated annually.
Goods (US$22.03 million)
6.09   Goods under the Project would generally include:
Computer hardware and software
* Power Equipment including generators, stabilizers, UPS etc.
Communication equipment
Hardware and software for the Real Time Gross Settlement system
6.10   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be followed for each contract for goods
estimated to cost more than US$200,000 equivalent. Most of the procurement of goods under the project is
expected to be procured through ICB procedures. Domestic Preference will be allowed to local bidders on
ICB contracts. The Project will also finance part of the incomplete activities under the on-going IT systems
contract which was awarded by the State Bank following ICB procedures under FSDIP (Ln. 3808-Pak).
6.11   Contracts for goods estimated to cost between US$50,000 equivalent and US$200,000 per contract
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,000,000 are expected to be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Small value off-the-shelf goods estimated to
cost US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract and up to an aggregate ceiling not to exceed US$700,000
are expected to be procured following National Shopping procedures in accordance with the Procurement
Guidelines.
Improvement of Bidding Procedures under National Competitive Bidding
6.12   The following improvements in bidding procedures will apply to all procurement of Goods under
National Competitive Bidding, in order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency
with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
* Invitation to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper with a wide circulation, at
- 42 -



least 30 days prior to the Jeadline for the submission of bids;
*   bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
required fee;
*   foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given
to national bidders in the bidding process;
*   bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;
*   qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;
*   bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
*   bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without
the prior concurrence of the Association;
*   before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Association's prior concurrence shall be
obtained;
*   bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit prices and not on the
basis of a composite schedule of rates;
*   contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates;
*   contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and
*   post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders.
Consultants' Services (US$3.55 million)
6.13   Contracts with consulting lirmns estimated to cost more than $100,000 per contract will be
procured in accordance with Quality and Cost Based Selection procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less
than $100,000 per contract may be procured through the method of Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications. Contracts with individual consultants will be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section V of the Consultants Guidelines.
Procurement Planning
6.14   Preliminary procurement plans for goods and consultants' services have been provided to IDA and
our available in IDA's files. Prior to issuing the first invitation for bids in the case of goods and request for
proposals in the case of consultants services, the State Bank will prepare and provide for IDA's review,
updated annual procurement plans for Goods and Consultants' Services. Procurement under the project
will be carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan. Procurement plans will be closely
monitored and updated on a quarterly basis.
Review of Procurement by the Bank (Table B)
6.15   Prior Review: The following contracts will be subject to IDA's prior review:
* All ICB contracts for Good ;.
*   The first NCB contract for Goods, irrespective of value, and thereafter each contract for Goods
estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more.
*   The first Consultants' Services contract with consulting firms, irrespective of value, and thereafter
each contract with firmns estimated to cost US$100,000 or more.
*   The first consulting services contract with individual consultants, irrespective of value, and
thereafter each contract with individuals estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent or more.
6.16   All other contracts will be subject to Post-Review by IDA. The State Bank will send to the Bank
on a quarterly basis, a list of all contracts subject to post-review.
Procurement Information and documentation
- 43 -



6.17   Procurement information will be recorded and reported as follows:
(a) Complete procurement documentation for each contract, including bidding documents,
advertisements, bids received, bid evaluations, letters of acceptance, contract agreements, securities, related
correspondence etc., will be maintained by the implementing agency in an orderly manner so as to readily
available for audit.
(b) Contract award information will be promptly recorded and contract rosters, in IDA's sample
format, maintained by the implementing agency.
(c) Comprehensive quarterly reports by the implementing agency indicating:
(i) revised cost estimates, where applicable, for each contract;
(ii) status of on-going procurement, including a comparison of originally planned and
actual dates of the procurement actions, including preparation of bidding documents,
advertising, bidding, evaluation, contract award and completion time for each contract;
and
(iii) updated procurement plans, including revised dates, where applicable, for the
procurement actions.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB             NCB           Other        N.B.F.   Total
Cost
1. Goods                 20.33          1.00         0.70          0.00     22.03
(18.29)        (0.85)       (0.49)                 (19.63)
2. Consultants' Services  0.00          0.00          5.30         0.00     5.30
(3.90)                (3.90)
3. TrainingfWorkshops   0.00            0.00          1.47         0.00     1.47
(1.47)                (1.47)
4. Unallocated          0.00            0.00          1.50         0.00     1.50
(1.50)                (1.50)
Total                 20.33            1.00        7.22          0.00     30.30
(18.29)        (0.85)        (5.86)                (26.50)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include
contingencies.
2/ Includes goods and civil works to be procured through national shopping, consultants' services, and
training
- 44 -



Table Al: C:onsultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
.   l                     Selection -Method-
Consuliant Services
Expenditure Category  -QCBS  QBS      SFB     LCS      CQ     Other   N:B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               2.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23     0.00    0.00     3.08
(2.24)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.16)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.40)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.22    0.00     2.22
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (1.50)  (0.00)   (1.50)
Total  2.85    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.23    2.22    0.00      5,30
(2.24)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.16)  (1.50)  (0.00)   (3.90)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection cf individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-Financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Sr. No.   Expenditure Category  Contract Value    Procurement    Contracts Subject to
Threshold         Method          Prior Review
__ __ __ __ _ _ _  (US$)                    (US$)
1.     Goods                                                      21.5 million
> 200,000             ICB                All
100,000-200,000       NCB                All
50,000-100,000        NCB            First contract
<50,000               NS                None
2.     Consulting Services                                         3.25 million
Firms                 > 100,000             QCBS                All
< 100,000             SBCQ           First contract
> 50,000          Section V- CG          All
Individuals           < 50,000               -do-          First contract
Total estimated value of contracts subject to prior review: US$24.75 million
- 45 -



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment - Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 46 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
6.18   Reimbursement (of expenditures) against advance payments out of SBP's funds would be done
through Special Account to be maintained with National Bank of Pakistan, statements of which would be
regularly reconciled with the accounts. Disbursements would be made using transaction-based procedures.
6.19   The proposed IDA Credit of SDR21.30 million (US$26.5 million equivalent) would be disbursed
over a period of four years and would finance about 87.5% percent of the cost of the project. The proceeds
of the Credit would be disbursed against eligible expenditures, net of taxes and duties indicated in Table C
below. The final disbursement is anticipated to be made by December31, 2006, about six months after the
end of project implementation. (Allocation of Credit proceeds by disbursement category and percentage to
be financed are shown in Table C. )
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category -  : . Amount in US$million.        Financing Percentage
Goods                                      19.63              100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures [ex factory
cost] and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultants' Services                      3.90             98% of expenditures for national
consultants
85% of expenditures for foreign
consultants
TrainingtWorkshops                         1.47                         100%
Unallocated                                1.50
Total Project Costs                        26.50
Total                                      26.50
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
6.20   Disbursements would be fidly documented except for those expenditures: (a) under contracts not
exceeding the equivalent of: (i) US'$100,000 each for goods, (ii) US$100,000 for the services of consulting
firms, (iii) US$50,000 for services of individual consultants; and (iv) for training of the SBP staff. Such
disbursement would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), the documentation for which
would not be submitted to IDA but retained by the project implementation agency at a central place and
made available during the course of project supervision. It is estimated that about US$2 million equivalent
would be disbursed through SOEs. Individual small contracts for works, goods, services and training can
be claimed through submission of Statement of Expenditures. The project implementation agency would be
required to keep all documentation relating to these activities for review by the IDA and for audit. The
estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex '5'.
Special account:
6.21   To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened by the SBP, with an amount of
upto US$1.50 million in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. This
- 47 -



would be used for IDA's share of financing of the project expenditures( equivalent to requirement for about
4 months estimated expenditures). The Special Account would be opened and maintained by SBP and
would be used for payments of all eligible foreign and local expenditures. The Special Account would be
replenished on a monthly basis or whenever 20% of the account has been utilized, whichever occurs first.
Financial Management Arrangements
6.22   State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) is the implementing agency for this project. The financial
management system in place at the central bank is adequate and can provide financial statements for the
project. Hence, normal supervision by Bank missions is recommended. The flows of funds and accounting
process to be followed for TABS have been observed to be consistent and accurate. However, significant
level of coordination is required for formulation of budgets and communication of the same, under each
component. It was assured that this will be done.
6.23   Accounts of the project would be maintained by the International Organizations Accounts Section
that is responsible for accounting functions of projects financed by donors. The expenditure would be
incurred by Expenditure and General Services Sections and SBP's Expenditure Regulations would be
followed, joint signatures are required for all payments. All payments would be subject to pre-audit in the
Accounts Department and post-audit by Internal Audit Department.
6.24   SBP Project Management team is responsible for coordination between Project Managers of each
component and SBP staff to facilitate the progress of the project.
6.25   Budgeting has been observed as a weak area in the overall financial management system. However,
it has been assured that arrangements would be put in place to produce and monitor detailed budget for the
project. Generally, the books of account are well kept and SBP's policies and working procedures for
accounting and financial reporting are adhered to. Internal control arrangements are by and large effective.
6.26   Disbursements: Reimbursement (of expenditure) against advance payments out of SBP's funds
would be done through Special Account to be maintained with National Bank of Pakistan, statements of
which would be regularly reconciled with the accounts. Disbursements would be made using
transaction-based procedures.
6.27   Audit: SBP has been in compliance of the audit and financial covenants as far as the other project
it is implementing - FSDIP. Audited financial statements have been received on time and auditors have
given unqualified opinion in respect of ProjectlSOE and Special Account for FSDIP. The auditors have
given a qualified exception opinion on entity's accounts for FY'01 because of non-verification of assets
recoverable from the Reserve Bank of India and accrual of profit on various facilities granted to the
Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan. However, this has no implications on the project. An
unqualified audit report has been received in respect of the Structural Adjustment Credit for which SBP
was the implementing agency. Projects financial statements and SOEs would be audited by a leading firm
of Chartered Accountants acceptable to the Bank.
6.28   Country issues relevant to the project and financial management of a public sector entity:
(a) Inadequate budget management and control has resulted in weak financial management and
accountability. This limits the internal control and financial monitoring to routine and procedural practice
rather than risk-based activity. Realizing this SBP has stressed the need for strong budgeting system and
effective implementation of the same, a Joint Director in Accounts Department has been assigned with the
- 48 -



responsibility to oversee the budgeting process and system in place at the central bank and rationalize it.
(b) The financial rules applied are old and need to be streamlined. Most of the internal working
procedures/manuals of different departments are outdated including the Banking Department manual,
which is the main manual. The Banking Department Manual is in the process of updating.
6.29   Risk Analysis: There are no material risks that may affect the project.
6.30   Strengths and Weaknesses:
*   Strengths: The project has the following strengths in the area of financial management: (i) all
payments are subjected to double audit i.e. pre-audit in the Accounts Department and post
audit by the Internal Audit Department, unresolved observations are reported to the Governor
on a monthly basis; (ii) payments are authorized by the General Services Section after
pre-audit, recording and processing of the transaction is carried out at Accounts Main Section
and custody of assets rests with the respective departments, effective segregation of duties is in
place; (iii) as agreed in the last review of FSDIP details of all expenditure incurred under each
component of the project are recorded separately in the expenditure register; (iv) fixed asset
register maintained to record all procurements under the project; (v) joint signatures required to
operate Special Account; (vi) payments are made against original sanctions; (vii) details of
expenditure limits against positions in Expenditure Manual; and (viii) written policies and
procedures of key departments are communicated to the relevant staff and are followed, the
internal working procedures manuals are being updated.
*   Significant weaknesses: There are no significant weaknesses in financial management.
6.31   Implementing Entitv: The implementing agency for the project is the State Bank of Pakistin, the
central bank of the country, which is an autonomous legal entity. Previously there were 16 field offices
and a central directorate, which acted as head office. Consolidation of accounts was done at central
directorate. Now the operations have been divided into two areas: (i) Central Directorate, which acts as a
central bank, and (ii) a new subsidiary, SBP Banking Services Corporation that supervises 16 field offices.
6.32   Funds Flow: Flow of funds would be on the lines of the existing system followed for the Bank's
funded projects.
6.33   Flow offunds from the Wo-Id Bank to SBP: A Special Account would be opened by the SBP, with
the National Bank of Pakistan on teirms and conditions acceptable to IDA. This would be used for IDA's
share of financing of the project expenditures (equivalent to requirement for about 4 months estimated
expenditures). The Special Account would be opened and maintained by SBP and would be used for
payments of all eligible foreign and local expenditures. The Special Account would be replenished on a
monthly basis or whenever 20% of the account has been utilized, whichever occurs first.
6.34   Existing system for flow ofjunds within SBP: A cheque is prepared in favor of the supplier, which
is jointly signed by Accounts Officer and Assistant Director, General Services Section. The cheque issued
to the supplier is drawn on SBP account. NBP Special Account is maintained for reimbursement of
expenditure incurred. Documents and bills are sent to IOAS section for reimbursement, which sends
withdrawal applications to the World Bank. A cheque drawn on NBP special account is prepared by IOAS
in favor of the director of the department incurring expenditure. Joint Director and Jr. Joint Director jointly
sign the cheque. Upon realization of funds, Karachi Office intimates and respective account is reimbursed
- 49 -



with the amount.
6.35   Staffinm: Generally, the departments carrying out accounting and financial reporting function under
Bank's projects are adequately staffed except that some staff would be required for detailed budgeting and
monitoring. This would be done by transferring staff from one of the accounting departments of SBP.
6.36   Accounting Policies and Procedures: SBP uses accrual basis of accounting. Expenditure is
incurred out of SBP's funds and charged to a control account maintained in SBP's main accounting
system. Subsidiary accounts in respect of project expenditure are maintained by the IOAS.
6.37   Salaries are processed by Expenditure Department, which follows SBP Expenditure Regulations
Manual. Payment authority rests with the Joint Director and above, no payment is accepted if authorized
by lower than a Joint Director.
6.38   The books of account are generally well kept and working procedures of the bank are adhered to
while processing a particular transaction.
6.39   Internal Audit: There is an effective internal audit system in SBP. All payments at SBP are subject
to double audit i.e. pre-audit at Audit Division of Accounts Department and post-audit, which is carried
out by Internal Audit Department. This strengthens the internal control over the flow of funds across
different departments. However, during the review it was noted that the internal control and audit function
is limited to routine and procedural monitoring and is not a risk based activity. The expenditures incurred
are not compared to the budgets related to specific activities at the time of pre-audit as a result of which the
control over expenditure against budgeted allocations is not what may be required by an efficient financial
management system. However, the rationalization of budgeting activity is under process and has been
incorporated in the new computerized financial and accounting system to be implemented this year. The
budgeting mechanism at SBP is discussed in detail in Reporting and Monitoring Section
6.40   In pre-audit, documentation, proper verification through invoices is checked, approval is granted if
authorized official has initiated the payment according to the expenditure manual. Payments are made
against original sanctions to prevent double payment. However, budgets are not taken pre-audit section
which is maintained for each department. Monthly reports are sent to internal audit department for follow
up. An appraisal report is prepared in respect of unresolved observations for the Governor. The Internal
Audit Department comprises of professionals headed by an experienced chartered accountant.
6.41   Internal audit of all activities is carried out once a year and is a continuous process. There are three
teams who carry out internal audit function all year round. Each team consists of 5-6 members. A Joint
Director or a Junior Joint Director heads each team. All accounting standards mandated by the Securities &
Exchange Commission of Pakistan and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan are followed.
The audit manual has been formulated by a local firm of chartered accountants on risk-based activities.
6.42 External Audit: External audit of SBP is carried out jointly by two local Chartered Accountants
firms of which one is representing one of the intemational finms. The accounts are co-audited by A.F.
Ferguson & Co. (representing one of the big five firmns) and Hussain Shah Rehman. There have not been
any delays last year and the audit reports were issued within two months of year end for FSDIP. There
were no audit issues.
6.43   The external audit of TABS would be carried out by auditors acceptable to the Bank and as per
TORs approved by the Bank. This would be confirmed in the minutes of negotiation.
- 50 -



6.44   The following audit reports would be required on Bank's formats that have been discussed with the
implementing agency:
Type of report             Due by
Entity (SBP)               31 December
Project/SOE                31 December
Special Account            31 December
6.45   Reporting and Monitoring:
Existing Arrangements of accounting for the World Bank's projects: Accounts are being
maintained manually. However, accounts would be computerized by end May, 2002 using Oracle
Financials. The General Ledger will have separate modules for fixed assets, inventory, accounts payable,
purchases, HR, payroll etc and provisions for sub classifications under each module.
6.46   Budgeting: Department wise budgets are given to the General Services Section by all departments.
The budgets are consolidated under various heads of expenditure. Actual expenditure is compared with the
average monthly budget for expenciture The budget is approved by the accounts departmnent. It was agreed
that detailed budgeting of each com.ponent would be devised covering all significant activities and provided
to IOAS.
6.47   Financial Monitoring Reportsfor TABS: The FMRs requirement for TABS would include
financial statements, physical progress reports and procurement reports for project monitoring. SBP will
provide the following quarterly financial statements:
1. Sources and Uses of Funds
2. Uses of Funds by Projeci. Activity
3. Output Monitoring Report
4. Procurement Monitoring Report
6.48   In addition, SBP will also prepare progress reports on a quarterly basis. These reports would
reflect the linkage of financial inforTnation with the progress of the project. The IOAS maintains
expenditure ledger and fixed asset ledger where expenditure is recorded under each component. The
formats of the following Financial MIonitoring Reports and annual audited financial statements have been
discussed and agreed with the International Organizations Accounts Section. Contents of the FMRs would
be agreed at negotiations.
6.49   Information Systems: Although manual accounting system is adequate, SBP is in the process of
computerizing it. The automation of accounting, and other systems is expected to be completed by May
2002. The software would include 3 modules: (i) Banling Applications - Globus; (ii) Oracle Financials -
ERP - Enterprise Resource Planning applications, includes sub, modules for inventory, budgeting, general
ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable and other Balance Sheet items; and (iii) Data Warehouse.
The first two are for intemal operations of the bank and the last one for extemal monitoring.
The system would be adequate for effective financial management reporting under TABS as there
is provision of sub-heads to account for project's accounting requirements under the new
computerized accounting system.
- 51 -



6.50   Supervision Plan: Since the financial management arrangements to be used for the project are
adequate, Bank's normal supervision plan i.e. six monthly missions may be carried out. However, special
attention would need to be paid to budgetary control over expenditure.
6.51   Action Plan
Actions for enhancement offinancial     Responsible Person           Completion Date
management system
Computerization of accounting process   Project Incharge, IT         End of Nov'02
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Technical Assistance
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project Imonths)
First Bank mission (identification)              10/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      10/01/2001                   01/10/2002
Negotiations                                     11/15/2001                   04/22/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/24/2001          I
Prepared by:
Mudassir Khan
Preparation assistance:
Ann Rennie, Robert Keppler, Rake;h Asthana, Amir Munir
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Mudassir Khan                      Financial Sector Specialist
Ann Rennie                         Human Resource/ Institutional Development
Robert Keppler                     Payment Systems, Credit Information
Rakesh Asthana                     Information Systems
Akhtar Hamid                       Legal Counsel
Amir Munir                         Information Systems
Hasan Saqib                        Financial Management
Ahsan Ali                          Procurement
Anwar A. Bhatti                    Disbursement
Mary Agnes Evidente                Program Assistant
Farah Imran                        Team Assistant
Raana Osman                        Consultant
Ali Awais                          Legal Consultant
Saima Sherazi                      Consultant (editor)
Desiree Charles-Baveghems          Staff Assistant
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Technical Assistance
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Technical Assistance for Banking Sector, Aide Memoire, February, 2002
Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project Supervision Mission Report, May, 2001
Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project -South Africa Mission, Back to Office Report,
December, 2001
C. Other
Capacity Building at State Bank of Pakistan, Second Progress Report, November 26, 2001
IMF - Assessment of the Standby Program Report, 2000
IMF - Report of Monitoring and Exchange Affairs Department, April, 2001
IMF - Bank Reform and Bank Efficiency in Pakistan, September, 2001
ADB - SME Sector Development Program, Aide-Memoire, December, 2001
ADB - Capital Market Development Program, October 1997
ADB - Technical Assistance to Pakistan for the Rural Microfinance Project, December, 1997
ADB - Technical Assistance to Pakistan for the Restructuring of Public Sector Mutual Funds,
September, 1997
*Including electronic files
- 54 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Technical Assistance
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P055292       2002 BSRPP                                             0.00    300 00                           0.00     207 57    -95.46       0.00
P056213       2001 TRADE & TRANSPORT                                 0.00      3.00                           0.00       1 87      0.33       0.00
P071092       2001 NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT             0.00     21.35                           0.00      20.23     -0 47       0.00
P049791        1999 POVERTYALLEVIATION FUND                          0.00     90.00                           0.00      57.58     -4.50       0.00
P037834        1998 NORTHERN EDUCATION                               o.oo     22.80                           0 09      14.33     15 63       0 00
P037835        1998 SOCIAL ACTION PRG II                             0.00    250,00                           0.00      18.40     -103        0.00
P010500        1998 NATIONAL DRAINAGE PR                             0.00     285.00                          0.24     144 41     107.01      0 00
P036015        1997 IMPR FIN REP & AUDIT                             0.00     28.80                           0.00      18.48     20.54       000
P039281        1996 GHAZa BAROTHA HYDROP                           350.00      0.00                           0.00      61.04     59.97      37 35
P010478        1996 NWFPCOMMUNITYINFRA                               0.00     21.50                           0.00       858       10.09      1.12
P010482        1996 BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY IRRIGATION &AGRI.          0.00     2670                            000        311       540        5.50
P034101        1996 PK-TELECOM REG & PRIVAT                         35 00      0.00                           13.15      4.93      18.08      8 08
P010470        1995 FIN SECTOR DEEPENING & INTERMEDIATION          216.00      0.00                          188.03     11.41    199.24      11 24
Total:     601.00     1049.15                        201.51     569.94     334.84     63.29
- 55 -



PAKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity  Quasi   Paric    Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995               AES Lal Pir                 30.82    9.50    0.00    0.00   30.82    9.50     0.00   0.00
1996               AESPakGen                    16.22   9.50    0.00   29.52    16.22   9.50     0.00  29.52
1995               Abamco Mgmt                  0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29     0.00   0.00
1996               Atlas Inv Bank               2.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.81    0.00     0.00   0.00
1994               Atlas Lease                  2.40    0.36    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.36     0.00   0.00
0                  BRRIL                         0.00    0 24   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.24     0.00    0.00
1991/94/95         BRRIM                        0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     5.00   0.00
1995               BSJS Fund                     0.00   0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50     0.00   0.00
1993               CDCPL                        0.00    0.16     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.16     0.00    0.00
1993/97/01         Crescent Greenwd              3.20   0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00     0.00    0 00
1996               Crescent IBank               6 75    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.75    0.00     0.00    0.00
0/94/95/96         D.G. Khan                     0.00   0.51     0.00    0.00    0.00   0 51     0.00    0.00
1998               Engro Asahi                  6.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.86    0.00     0.00    0.00
1991/95/97         Engro Chemical                5.14   0.00    0.00    3.75    5.14    0.00     0 00    3.75
1996               Engro Vopak                   7.51   0.00     0.00   3.13    7.51    0.00     0 00    3.13
1990/91/96         FIB                           1.54   0.00     0.00   0.00     1.54   0.00     0 00    0.00
1993               Fauji Cement                 22.40   5.00     0.00   0,00    22.40   5.00     0.00    0.00
1995               First Crescent               0.00    0.00     5.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     5.00    0.00
1994/96            First Leasing                 0.00   0.69     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.69     0.00    0.00
1995               First UDL                     0.00    0.00   10.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    10.00    0.00
1996               Gul Ahmed                    20.25   4.10     0.00   22.53   20.25   4.10     0.00   22.53
1988               Hala Spinning                3.25     0.00    0.00    0.00    3.25   0.00     0.00    0.00
1991/95            IHFL                          0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.40     0 00    0.00
1992/96            JSCL                          0.00    0.27    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.27     0.00    0.00
1995               Kohinoor                     17.50   6.30     0.00   20.33   17.50   6.30     0.00   20.33
1994/95/97         Maple Leaf                    0.00   0.52     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.52     0.00    0.00
0/93               Muslim Comm Bank              1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984/94            NDLC                          2.81    1.25    0.00    0.00    2.81    1.25    0.00    0.00
1994               Orix Finance                  0.00   0.58     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.58     0.00    0.00
1994               OrixLeasing                  2.81     1.25    000     0.00    2.81    1.25    0.00    0.00
1994               PACRA                         0.00   0.10     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.10     0.00    0.00
1994               PI&CL                         1.25   0.00     0.00    0.00    1.25   0 00     0.00    0.00
1991/94/95         PILCO                         0.00   0.54     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.54     0.00    0.00
1983/84/94         PPL                           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1965/80/82/87/91/94/9 Packages                   2.25    2.50    0.00    0.00    2.25   2.50     0.00    0.00
5                  Pakistan Service              2.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Pakistan Unit Tr              0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00
1995               Prudential                    0.00   0.40     0.00    0.00    0 00   0.40     0.00    0.00
1991               Regent Knitwear               5.90    0.00    0.00    2 80    5.90   0.00     0.00    2.80
1994               Rupafab                       3.67   0.00     0.00   0.00     3.67   0.00     0.00    0.00
1995               Sarah Textiles                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
0/93/96            Uch Power                    38.05    0.00    0.00   71.24   33.09    0.00    0.00   56.20
1996
Total Portfolio:      206.80   49.44    20.00  154.10  198.64   49.44    20.00  138.26
Approvals Pending Commitment
- 56 -



FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
2001               Lasmo Pakistau                   10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Maple Leaf Reatr                 15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Microbank                        0.00      0.00      1.64      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       25.00      0.00      1.64      0.00
- 57 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Technical Assistance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          South      Low-
Pakistan     Asia   Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                    138.1     1,355    2.459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$)                   440      460       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                    61.0      617      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                       2.4       1 9       1.9
Labor force (X)                                      3.0       2.4       2.4    GNI                             Gross
per                           primary
Moat racent estimate (latest year avallable, 1994-00)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  33
Urban Populaton (X of total population)               37        28       32
Life expectancv at birth (Years)                      63       63        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              90       74        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            38        47       ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (X of population)  68        87       76
Illiteracy (X of population ege 15+)                  54       45        38
Gross primary enrollment (X of school-age popuiation)  89      100       96                 Pakislan
Male                                                77       110      102                  Low-income group
Female                                              60       90        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratioi-
GDP (USS billions)                         23.7     40.0      58.6      61.6
Gross domestic Investment/GDP               18.5    18.9      15.6      15.6                   Trade
Exports of aoods and services/GDP           12.5    15.5      15.1      15.5
GrossdomesticsavingslGDP                    6.9     11.1      10.6      12.1
Gross national savinaslGOP                  13.7    14.2      11.0      12.0
Current account balance/GDP                 -4.8    -4.7      -4.6      -3.6     Domestic                   Investment
interest payments/GDP                        1.0     1.3       1.6       1.4     savings
Total debt/GDP                             41.9     51.6      57.8      52.1     s
Total debt serviceexports                   18.3    23.0      29.4      26.1
Present value of debtVGDP                    ..       ..        ..      43.2
Present value of debtlexports                ..       ..        ..     249.3
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 6.3      3.7     3.7       4.4        ..                 Pakistan
GDP per capita                      3.5      1.2     1.2       1.9        ..                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       8.4.    1.7     -2.9      16.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP 1%)
(X of GDP)                                                                       to
Aariculture                                29.5     26.0      27.0      26.3    iS
Industry                                   24.9     25.2      23.7      22.8
Manufacturing                             15.9     17.4      15.5     15.1 
Services                                    45.6    48.6      49.2      50.9  4  5      9s   as    \; o o
Private consumptlon                        83.1     73.8      79.0      76.9    -* 
General government consumption              10.0    15.1      10.4      11.0                -GDI       _   GDP
Imports of goods and services              24.1     23.4      20.0      19.1
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 4.3      4.4       1.9       6.1    20
Industry                                    7.3      3.9       49       -0.1    iso.
Manufacturing                              77       3.5       4.1      1.4
Services                                    6.8      4.4       5.0       4.8                                          1
Private consumption                         4.3      4.9       7.5       0.9
General govemment consumption               10.3     0.7      -6.9       7.0   -20
Gross domestic Investment                   5.8      1.8      -9.2       4.1            -Exports         C  Imports
Imports of goods and services               2.1      2.5      -5.4      -2.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour kev Indicators In the countrv (in bold) compared with Its Income-group averags. If data are missina, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 58 -



Pakistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990     1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                      5
Consumer prices                                                5 7      3.6     o'
Implicit GDP deflator                        9 1     6.5       5.9      3.7
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             0
Current revenue                                     18.0      16.2     16 6            95    99    97   9O    99    90
Current budget balance                               -1.0     -3.0     -35            -     GDP deflator  _  CI'I
Overall surplus/deficit                             -6.6      -6.0     -6 3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        2,365   4,954     7,779    8.569     t5.00o
Cotton                                             443         2       73
Rice                                               239       533      540     10oo0*
Manufactures                             1,371    2,489    7,199     7.874    *0*                   *    *    *
Total imports (cif)                                8,054    10,457   10,404                        J         J
Food                                              1,066     1,496     896      so     **
Fuel and energy                                   1.163     1,477    2,793
Capital goods                                     1,788     2,921    2.705 o
94   95   99  97   09   119  50
Export once index 11995=100)                  .      103       87        84
Imort orice index (1995=100)                                   87        93                MExports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      ..       100       91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                            1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              2,958   6,217     8,842    9,575
Imports of goods and services              5,709   9,351    11,737   11,762
Resource balance                          -2,751  -3,134    -2,895    -2,187   *2
Net income                                  -281    -966    -1,808    -2,018
Net current transfers                      1,895   2,210     2.005    1,997    J4
Current account balance                   -1,137  -1,890    -2,698    -2,208    _i
Financing items (net)                      1,416   1.890     3,952    2,000
Changes in net reserves                    -279        0    -1,254      208
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        0    1,311     2,228    1.606
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)             9.9    21.4      50.1     51.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990     1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       9.931  20,663    33,899   32.091
BlRD                                      330    1,816     3.315    3,093                  G 1.519  A 3.093
IDA                                       821    2,106     3.905    3.828
F 3,557
Total debt service                          869    1.902     2.935    2,786                                    . 3,828
IBRD                                       58      199      429       409
IDA                                         9.      34       86        93               ic
%        ~~~C 1,529
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                           268      538       573      926
Official creditors                        539      904       873      454
Private creditors                         166      -63      -478     -361        E. 11,555_
Foreign direct investment                  68!     200      478       467                                   00
Portfolio equity                            0       87       28        74
World Bank program
Commitments                               185      972      440               A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              90      491      628       301     B- IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       29 .     92      283       291     C- IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                  61      399      345        10
Interest,payments                          39      141      232       211
Net transfers                              22      258       113     -201
Development Economics                                                                                            2/8/02
- 59 -






MAP SECTION






r  60                       65                           70O        (     TAJIKISTAN 75' 
}         >           ~~~~~~~C H I N A
PAKISTAN
O   SELECTED CITIES
9   NATIONAL CAPITALLF.FP
MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS                                                     y
35-                            RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                  c.App-ori,ooto            35'-
--- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Kho               I S MABAD -     JAMMU
a J,ndi 7z  0   *   and KASHMIR
I       100    200     300 KILOMETERS
0      50     100     150     200MILES
< />R<}< vlvf |  r 9 i/    ilVG~~~~~~~~u In
AFGHANISTAN                           r-
30'      /'/                                                                     D-                                           30u
_  < 9_   BALOCttSTAN                                                    I 5  NDI A
ISLAMIC REP.                                   | Kud7/-                                _,
O F I R A N                                      K1  u 2 . ,        Roh ri 7o5r              U       _ o  1AtEitO  )        N 
t                           IAIIK",~~~~  i DI
<~~~~~~5  g~~~~~~~~~~~f i <   <E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~             251/<G         lA 
.1./;                       I     I          .jJi-*iii I_             1  C -         !       -    I N D I A
Ths r.op WO5 prod-d by the Mop Digo U0ni of Th.e WorlidBon --k                 -            .-. 
The h-ndorie, colors, denominotions ond oBjother Anfortotion shown  . .              -                   -  SINDH
on thit -op do not imply, on the pont of The World B=nL  roop, oy  oih  o-d-i
ijdgntoo - on the Ifgoftotos of -ny tr.itory, or ony endorseiant or  .                                          -.--z
cscopbn- of -uh b-o,neies6s7                                                                _ ,7                            S 
7'          ~~A-obi-n Ss.
60O'                             60"                                                  -  --0 A--t'                 t  -









IMAGING
Report No.:         24145  PAK
Type:     PAD



