Report No. 23386
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/17/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: PAKISTAN        Project ID: P074797
Project: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Task Team Leader: Mudassir
Khan
Appraisal Date: November 21, 2001        IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: July 25, 2002        IDA Amount ($m): 21.08
Managing Unit: SASFP     Sector: FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The proposed project is a follow-on of the ongoing Financial Sector
Deepening and Intermediation Project (FSDIP) which will be closing in
December 2001 with fully satisfactory implementation and achievement of
development objectives. FSDIP has supported the State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP) over the last six years in improving its functioning as a regulator.
Banking supervision was considerably strengthened with development of new
rules and procedures and hiring and training of personnel in specialized
areas. SBP has also invested in automating its manual functions and
upgrading existing systems through state of the art technology. In
addition, over the past eighteen months, SBP took a number of new
initiatives to further build its capability for effective regulation and
management of monetary policy. These initiatives included measures to
strengthen human resource capacity, streamlining of policies, and carrying
out organizational restructuring where SBP is being split into a core
central bank and an independent subsidiary for retail functions. The
Governor and the Central Board of SBP have also given particular emphasis
to staff development for which the National Institute of Banking and
Finance (NIBAF) is to be transformed into an independent subsidiary with
professional management to conduct specialized training programs. Under
various policy reforms supported by the Bank and other donors, the legal
and regulatory framework was also strengthened with increased autonomy of
the State Bank to manage monetary policy and regulate the banking sector
(details of past and ongoing reforms are provided in Section B-2). In
addition, as part of financial sector reforms, SBP took the lead in
carrying out a regulatory review of the non-bank and development finance
institutions with a view to restructure and consolidating the sector.
The proposed project would support continuation and effective completion
of the restructuring measures already initiated as well as complement
broader reforms in the financial sector supported by the Bank and other
donors. Through continuing support, the project will assist SBP in its
restructuring program of transforming the central bank into a highly
professional, efficient and modern institution which is fully equipped to
play a meaningful role in the economic development of Pakistan. The
restructuring program supported under the project includes: (a) improving
standards and quality of personnel, providing staff with modern
techniques/tools through enhanced training and re-aligning policies with
international best practices for staff development, (b) modernizing
operations of the State Bank by automating processes through use of
technology, networking and communication tools and establishing these
linkages with the banking sector and the Ministry of Finance for effective
functioning, (c) carrying out a study and supporting further strengthening
of the credit information system in the country for providing wider access



to all stakeholders, (d) streamlining and strengthening the payments
system for improved, safe, efficient and affordable delivery of financial
services across the country, and (e) institutional restructuring of
development finance institutions (DFIs) in priority areas of low income
housing, small business and agriculture, within the framework of the DFI
sector restructuring and as part of the broader financial sector reforms.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FSTAP) is the second phase
of technical assistance to the State Bank. It will build upon the
restructuring efforts already undertaken under FSDIP as well as other
reform measures initiated by SBP. The background of these initiatives is
discussed in the previous section.
Specifically, this project will provide funds to SBP to renew, build and
strengthen its institutional capacity and for organizational restructuring
of the DFIs catering to small businesses, housing and agriculture sectors.
The main components of this project are:-
(i) Human Resource Development
(ii) Technology Up-gradation
(iii) Strengthening CIB
(iv) Strengthening Payments System
(v) Restructuring of Development Finance Institutions
Human Resource Development: A comprehensive human resource (HR) reform
program has been prepared covering all HR related policies and development
of a HR management system with the objectives of (i) strengthening the
human resource base of the State Bank by attracting, retaining and
motivating specialized staff of high caliber; (ii) carrying out a
comprehensive human resource audit to identify and fill the skill gaps in
relation to the existing and emerging functional needs of the bank; and
(iii) reviewing and re-aligning the policies of recruitment, training,
compensation, performance evaluation, promotion and separation. The
project would also support trainings in the areas of: (i) Peoples
Management, (ii) Performance Management, (iii) Team work and leadership
programs, and (iv) Change Management, and acquisition of appropriate HR
tools. These objectives are to ensure that the HR Department is committed
to adopting best practices in its human resource management in its attempt
to transform SBP into a modern and dynamic central bank which is highly
professional and efficient in performing its role and functions.
In implementing this, SBP has adopted a two-pronged approach. First,
incremental pilots covering the areas of recruitment, performance
evaluation, promotion and separation are presently being carried out.
Although these will not bring about radical change in HR management but
they would be sufficient to create the first wave of change. Concurrently,
processes are being reviewed that will transform HR management of SBP in
line with best practices.
The HR development initiative consists of three main areas: (a) HR Reform,
(b) HR Audit, and (c) HR Management System.
HR Reform: This component involves reviewing and revamping of HR
- 2 -



processes, policies and procedures. Till now the development of: (i) a new
HR organizational structure, (ii) a competency model for enhanced
individual and organizational performance, and (iii) a new performance
management system, has been discussed and approved by the management and
the Central Board of SBP. These tasks would be carried out in sequence to
allow performance management to drive the HR management function.
As the new Performance Management System requires an open and honest
working environment, and close coordination between HRD, line managers and
individual staff, it is difficult to implement it in the current cultural
environment. Thus, pilots and readiness programs are being continuously
planned and conducted so that complete roll out of the performance
management system can take place by July next year. The review and design
of other HR processes, policies and procedures involving: promotion, job
rotation, succession planning, benefit management, and recognition, are at
various stages of development and require concerted efforts of the HR team
and support of senior management for their successful implementation.
HR Audit: Currently, hiring of consultants for carrying out the HR audit
is at its final stages. Negotiations of the contract agreement with the
consulting firm and award of the contract are expected by October. This
covers audit of various departments and positions in relation to their
work load, development of job descriptions, defining specific skill
requirements, making an inventory of existing skills and assessing
training needs. The consulting firm will also be responsible for
undertaking leadership skills and motivation audit.
Human Resource Management System (HRMS): The HRMS is linked with the
overall SBP automation project and is currently underway. The operational
analysis stage of mapping 'as is' HR processes is complete and is
currently at the solution design stage.
Successful implementation of the new HR processes and procedures will also
require support, commitment, teamwork, involvement and dedication of the
SBP staff. Teams have been formed at various levels to ensure involvement
of staff in this process and will also require skill development and
training.
Technology Up-gradation: The component provides for completing phase two
of the automation project as designed in the Information System Strategy
Plan formulated under the Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation
Project. Automation of the Central Directorate and Karachi office of SBP
is already being successfully implemented according to the implementation
schedule. This component would support implementing a Management
Information System comprising the following modules:
(a) automation of the existing manual system (Banking Operations);
(b) development of a local and wide area network, connecting various
departments and offices;
(c) establishing an Enterprise Resource Planning system;
(d) design and implementation of a Data Warehouse wherein data is stored,
retrieved, upgraded and extracted for analytical purposes; and
First phase of the project has successfully installed the base
infrastructure at Karachi head office and initial deployment of the
-3 -



Banking package (Globus), ERP package (Oracle Financials) and the Data
warehouse will also be implemented to a considerable level by December
2001. Completion of the automation project, however, will require
follow-on support from the Bank to realize the full benefits of this
investment. Specific tasks will include:
Expansion of the systems to 15 branch offices beyond Central Directorate
and Karachi office; The entire roll out of Globus, ERP/oracle financial
and networking of the branch offices will be covered under the proposed
project. The role out may also require some additional items due to the
expanded scope of these packages. The details of addionality in the branch
offices will be firmed up during appraisal.
Remaining functionality for Globus; As the main banking system Globus will
result in SBP conforming to international banking standards, availability
of reliable information, ease of introducing new products into the market,
as well as more efficiency and controls. By end December, specifications
of treasury modules and retail banking, gap analysis, training of key
users, and mock banking exercises will be completed. The proposed project
would support remaining implementation leading to the operation and branch
roll out of the Globus package. This will include:
(i) development of interfaces with SWIFT, Reuters, oracle financials, and
data bank;
(ii) data conversion involving data mapping and sign-off;
(iii) operation; and
(iv) branch roll-out.
Remaining functionality for ERP/Oracle Financial; ERP is an
internationally recognized packaged software solution which will integrate
all departmental functions related to financial accounting, human
resources, budgeting, payroll, procurement, inventory and assets
management. While nearly fifty percent of the work will be completed by
December 2001, completion of the remaining work will be supported by the
proposed project which includes:
(i) building acceptance for pilot tests;
(ii) developing oracle applications setup documents, user testing of
scripts, and producing customized reports;
(iii) testing, data conversion/migration and developing help desk for
supporting transition;
(iv) commencement of production system; and
(v) branch roll-out.
Reporting and modeling capabilities for the Data warehouse; Data
Warehouse is a central repository of information that provides
comprehensive and high integrity data in a form suitable for decision
support to end users and the decision makers. All of the survey work,
preparation of document check-lists, functional definitions,
specifications and verification of items for interface will be completed
in the current phase, by end December. Completion of main functions will
be done under the new project, including:
(i) logical data base modeling;
(ii) Usability analysis based on use case;
(iii) system structure and physical data base design;
(iv) program and test design;
(v) coding and unit testing;
-4-



(vi) system and operations planning; followed by
(vii) data base implementation, software installation and acceptance
testing
Training and Change management; This is an extremely important element of
this entire effort. The project team has successfully trained staff in
oracle, Globus and O/A. Under the current plans further training programs
on oracle, O/A, networking and systems will be conducted by end of
December. This is, however, an ongoing exercise. The proposed project
would support completion of these training programs in networking and O/A,
as well as programs during transition and prior to switch over. In
addition, the project will focus on change management so that SBP is fully
prepared to accept the new systems and processes that will be introduced.
It will involve elements of building awareness, staff responsibility and a
comprehensive communication plan.
Strengthening and Extending the Scope of Credit Information Bureau: The
CIB was setup in 1989. The mechanisms for data collection and data
retrieval as well as the scope of the data collected and maintained in the
system data bases has been enhanced progressively with the most recent
improvements made in May 2001. The system today is quite limited and
includes only negative information (defaults by individuals and business
groups). The project will assist the further development of the CIB
through a comparison with best relevant international practice and
adoption and implementation of worthwhile improvements both in terms of
scope of information, speed of delivery and cost of delivery. The primary
objective of the project is to assist the CIB satisfy the increasing needs
of its members in a secure, timely and affordable manner. Comprehensive
and well functioning credit information systems are desirable components
of the financial sector infrastructure in a country irrespective of the
stage in its economic development. High quality systems facilitate better
overall allocation of credit in the economy, more accurate prediction of
repayment probability, more accurate pricing and targeting of credit, more
consistent and efficient application of credit policy, improved borrower
discipline, increased incentives to repay, and reduction in the potential
for moral hazard.
The proposed project would support carrying out a review of the existing
CIB housed at the central bank and other international best practices with
a view to expanding the scope of credit information to also include low
value consumer transactions, positive information on businesses including
profiling and credit scoring. The review would also cover possible
security, confidentiality and legal aspects to allow for such services to
be provided by the private sector.
Strengthening and Streamlining the National Payments System: Payment
systems comprise the rules, standards, instruments, institutions, and
technical means for exchanging financial value between two parties. While
payment systems must always be designed to satisfy the unique requirements
of a particular country, experience has shown that there are a number of
common factors that significantly influence the success of such systems,
including speed of payment, certainty and finality of payment, system
reliability, safety and security, convenience and costs. The challenge is
to strike the right balance across these factors. Also, although the need
for payment services is common throughout an economy, the specific system
- 5-



design should recognize the needs of six discrete sectors;
individual/consumer sector, retail sector, industrial and commercial
sector, government sector, financial sector, and the international sector.
Weaknesses in the national payment system can result in inefficient use of
the available money stock, inequitable risk sharing between trading
parties, lack of confidence in the banking system, and inadequate support
for the development of other essential financial services such as
efficient capital markets.
The payment instruments used in Pakistan can be broadly categorized into
cash and paper-based instruments. Paper-based instruments comprise checks,
drafts etc. Since the data on the usage of these instruments in Pakistan
is currently not available, it is not possible to give exact ratios of
cash payments and non-cash payments. The use of electronic payments such
as Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) and Credit Cards is very limited since
these facilities have been introduced very recently in the country by the
commercial banks and are available only in major cities. However, these
modern facilities are becoming popular among the people and demand for
modern services is growing.
Steps have already been initiated to address the well recognized
weaknesses. In order to replace the existing old and manually-operated
paper based payment system with a modern one, the commercial banks have
established an organization that will be responsible for the automated
processing of checks. This initiative is being undertaken in collaboration
with private sector investors under the name of the National Institute of
Financial Transactions (NIFT). This company was established in October,
1996 as a joint venture of six large commercial banks and private
investors. The private investors and commercial banks have 51% and 49%
equity respectively.
In January 2001 the BIS CPSS published a major report containing the Core
Principles for Systemically Important Payment Systems which provide a
framework for assessing the degree to which the national systems satisfy
the requirements for speed, certainty, reliability, etc. Despite the
actions that have been taken to date - automation of check processing -
the SBP and the commercial banks recognize that substantial weaknesses are
present in the existing systems in regard both to the services available
and geographical coverage.
This project will assist the SBP in conjunction with the commercial banks
to finalize the design, and subsequently acquire, test and install an
appropriate large value electronic payment system operating on a gross
settlement basis. In addition, the project will assist SBP and NIFT
develop a suitable strategy for extending low value clearing services
operating on a net settlement basis to a wider range of geographical
locations outside the main population centers of Karachi, Lahore and
Islamabad. The low value system will allow the commercial banks to offer
a wider range of payments and remittance services to individuals, small
and large business enterprises, and government agencies on a national
basis. The large value system will satisfy the specialized needs of the
financial sector for inter-bank and third party transfers as well as the
needs of the SBP to reduce risk, and implement its monetary policy
decisions in an efficient manner. The large value system will also provide
intra-day finality of all large value and other time critical transactions
and thus permit an optimum use of the available money supply. Also, the
large value system will provide a range of liquidity management tools to
facilitate the cash management needs of commercial bank treasurers.
Under the project it is planned to make these new facilities available in
- 6 -



all major parts of Pakistan for enhancing trade, reducing risk, reducing
the dependency on cash and to attract higher remittances from overseas
through the formal banking channels. Expansion of these services would
build upon the work that has already been accomplished and would probably
include:
(i) A financial messaging system.
(ii) A settlement accounting system to process all settlement requests in
real time. This would involve integrating the existing Globus software
already selected by SBP with the new RTGS system to provide appropriate
interfaces with the general ledger system. Typical interfaces would
include; for example, the essential efficient relationships with
commercial bank reserve and loan accounts.
(iii) SWIFT Interface - connecting the SWIFT messaging system with Globus
software. Use of the SWIFT Fin system and possibly with the Fin Copy
system could avoid costly investments in application software covering
encryption, authentication, and non-repudiation functionality.
(iv) Infrastructure Development - acquiring and installing an appropriate
cost effective telecommunication and computer processing capability within
SBP premises. The telecommunications network will link commercial bank and
other direct participants to the RTGS system.
(v) Education and Training - to ensure that well trained personnel are
readily available to operate and support the new systems.
A specific issue to be addressed during the project will be the role of
the National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) who acts as an agent of the central
bank in those areas that are not directly served by central bank branch
offices.
Restructuring of Development Finance Institutions (DFI) for Priority
Sectors: Within the context of the development of the country's financial
sector the Government formulated a strategy for restructuring of the DFI
sector and its plan was approved by the Cabinet in June of 2000. The
strategy is based on a detailed review that indicated that financial
markets were not adequately catering to the financing needs of: (a) the
SME sector; (b) the rural and agriculture sector; and (c) the housing
sector for low income segment of the population. As these sectors were
expected to remain under-served and are integral to Government's overall
economic development agenda, there is a need for Government support until
such time that the markets develop and there is enough interest by the
private sector in these areas/institutions. Restructuring support through
experts/consultants for preparing institutional reorganization plans
involving (i) human resource development; (ii) operating policies,
procedure and standards; (iii) financial management and controls systems;
(iv) use of information technology; and (v) developing marketing strategy,
for all three institutions is proposed to be covered under the project.
It is recognized that these DFIs cannot be successful in making any
further contribution to economic development unless they are
professionally managed and operated commercially and with full autonomy.
Although the Government has already moved ahead by appointing professional
managers in two of the institutions, there is a need for greater autonomy
and private sector participation in these institutions. These changes can
be realized only through amendments in their laws and charters as they
were established under their respective Acts. As SBP has played a lead
-7 -



role, further restructuring is also planned to be carried out under the
auspices of the State Bank.
The project would also rely on the work already done in this area with the
support of the Bank and other donors. This includes: (i) SBFC: IT
initiative, where new systems were installed, and reorganization and
changes in operating policies and procedures was undertaken. SBFC
management is also seeking help from Planters Bank of Philippines which is
a leading and successful SME bank; (ii) ADBP: agriculture policy reforms,
IT, human resource and reorganization; and (iii) HBFC: housing finance
study assisted by the Bank, and new housing policy prepared by the
Government.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
no
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: Although no direct adverse environmental impacts are expected
from the TAL, nevertheless, due diligence procedures in normal DFI
operational routines will be incorporated to improve management of
indirect environmental and social risks in their normal lending operations.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)        No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N.A.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N.A.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
- 8-



N.A.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N.A.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N.A.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
All policies of SBP prior to implementation are discussed with the
stakeholders for their input including the financial sector institutions
that fall under the regulation of SBP as well as internally with SBP
staff.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
9



If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why. N.A.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Mudassir Khan   11/23/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         L. Panneer Selvam        11/27/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Marilou Jane D. Uy       11/22/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 10 -



