Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3688 PAK
Project Agreement
(Banking Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN
Dated July 11, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3688 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN (SBP).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one 
Page  2
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,300,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SBP agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
SBP, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to SBP on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS SBP, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SBP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth 
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, engineering and central banking practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SBP shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SBP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SBP shall:
Page  3
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date 
or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and SBP, a plan for 
the future operation of the 
Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
SBP on said plan.
Section 2.04. SBP shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SBP shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SBP shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
SBP shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by SBP of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) SBP shall maintain a financial management system, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
SBP shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) referred to in 
paragraph (a) above 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six 
months after the end of each such year, 
(A)
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited, and 
(B)
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
Page  4
auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon SBP’s progress reporting obligations set out in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, SBP shall prepare and furnish  to the Association a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which:
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and SBP 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
Page  5
notify SBP of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For SBP:
State Bank of Pakistan
I.I. Chundrigar Road 
P.O. Box 4456
Karachi
Pakistan
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
BANKRATE
20730
(92-21) 9212446
Karachi
21774 or
20054
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SBP, or by SBP on behalf of the 
Page  6
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Governor, 
or such other person or persons as its Governor shall designate in writing and SBP shall furnish 
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in District of 
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John W. Wall
Country Director, Pakistan
STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Mushtaq Ahmed Malik
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
Page  7
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be procured under the 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more 
shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under 
paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 but less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 1.
(i)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages to attract national 
bidders.
(ii)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the 
provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(aa)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission 
of bids;
(bb)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
Page  8
are willing to pay the required fee;
(cc)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process;
(dd)
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;
(ee)
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;
(ff)
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids;
(gg)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association;
(hh)
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Association’s prior 
concurrence shall be obtained; 
(ii)
bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit 
prices and not on the basis of a composite schedule of rates (CSR);
(jj)
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates;
(kk)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidders; 
and 
(ll)
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any other bidders.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  9
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to: (a) contracts for goods awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Part B of this Section I; (b) first contract for goods, irrespective of value, awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I; and (c) each subsequent contract for goods, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Part C.1 of this Section I.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  10
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
irrespective of value, and (ii) each subsequent such contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, irrespective of value, and (ii) each subsequent such contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
SBP shall ensure that:
(a)
procurement documentation and record keeping systems satisfactory to the 
Association will be developed and adopted by SBP not later than December 31, 2002;
(b)
one individual consultant will be appointed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement not later than September 30, 2002, to provide 
procurement assistance to SBP at least during the first year of Project implementation; and 
(c)
key procurement staff of SBP will be identified, trained in the procurement 
procedures mandated for the Project and designated as the focal points for procurement for the 
duration of Project implementation, all in a manner satisfactory to the Association and not later 
than December 31, 2002.
Page  11
2.
SBP shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about September 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
