Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11542-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1994
MICroGHAPHiICS
Report No:         11b42 RC
Type: SAR
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipiens only In the perfonnace of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authoradon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Romania Leu (L)
US$1.00 - lei 450.00 on January 1, 1993
US$1.00 = lei 735.00 on July 1, 1993
US$1.00 = lei 1276 on December 31, 1993
US$1.00 - lei 1680 on April 15, 1994
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BA          Bank for Agriculture
CBF         Chemical Bank
CC          Commercial Companies
CCB         Cooperative Credit Bank
CEC         Savings Bank
CO          Certificates of Ownership
DFB         Dacia-Felix Bank
EFF         Export Finance Fund
EIB         European Investment Bank
EXIM        Export Import Bank of Romania
FX          Foreign Exchange
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IDP         Industrial Development Project
IRR         Internal Rate of Return
LC          Letter of Credit
LIBOR       London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MIND        Bank for Small Industry and Private Initiative
MOE         Ministry of Environment
MOI         Ministry of Industry
MOF         Ministry of Finance
NAP         National Agency for Privatization
NBR         National Bank of Romania
PFI         Participating Financial Institution
PHARE       EC-Phare TA Program for Eastern Europe
PO          Purchase Order
POF         Private Ownership Fund
PSD         Private Sector Development
RA          Regie Autonomes
RBFT        Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade
RC          Restructuring Committee
RCB         Romanian Commercial Bank
RDB         Romanian Bank for Development
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SCL         Single Currency Loan
SGF         Societe General
SME         Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
SOF         State Ownership Fund
TA          Technical Assistance
TCB         Ion Tiriac Commercial Bank
TD/MOF      Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance
UCECOM      Central Union of Cooperatives
ROMANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.    INTRODUCTION    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    ...    .    .
A.    Background  .1...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
II.  INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
A. The Industrial Sector..                                                            2
(a) Industrial Structure.                                                      2
(b)   Economic Environment and Impact of Recent Policy Reforms  . .    3
B.    Enterprise Reform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
C. Privatization..                                                                    5
(a) Privatization Program.                                                     6
(b) Institutional Framework.                                                   6
(c) Privatization to Date.                                                     7
(d)   Measures to Speed-up Privatization  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
D.    Restructuring   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
(a)   Government's Industrial Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
(b)   Institutional Framework and Recent Developments . . . . . . .   11
E.    Private Sector Development  ......   .             ............  .   12
(a)   Small Scale Private Sector (SME)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
III.  FINANCIAL SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
A.    Current Structure of the Financial Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
B.    Financial Sector Reform ......  .            .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .   .   15
C.    Financial Markets .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                  .   16
IV.   PROJECT RATIONALE .........  ..                  .............  ...                 .    19
A.    The Bank Group Strategy for Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
B.    Rationale for Bank Involvement  .....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   20
V.    THE   PROJECT   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  22
A.    Objectives and Scope of the Proposed Project  . . . . . . . . . . .   22
B.    Financing Component ...........  ....  ....  ....                             .    23
C.    Technical Assistance Component  ......  .             ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .   .   25
D.    Project Cost and Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
E.    Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
This document has a resticted distnbution and may be- usd by redpiens ondy Inthe pebmnsY of tber
offidcaldutes.Itscontentsmaynototherwisebedisclosedwitd  WoddBankaMtoraiat



VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
A.   Loan Terms and Conditions ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
B.   Lending Arrangements  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
C.   Loan  Administration  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
VII.    BENEFITS  AND  RISKS    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  35
A.   Benefits  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  35
B. Risks .36
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .37
List of Tables
Table 3.1  Non-Government Credit Volume in Real Terms  . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Table 4.1  Policy-Related Measures and Objectives Accomplished During
Project  Preparation   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   21
Table 5.1  Technical Assistance for Privatization and Restructuring  . . . . . 25
Table 5.2  Estimated Total Project Cost  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 26
Table 5.3  Proposed Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Table 6.1  Participating Financial Institutiorns with Romanian Capital  . . . . 31
Table 6.2  Conditions of Effectiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
List of Annexes
Annex 1    Technical Assistance Component Specification  . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Annex 2    The Banking Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Annex 3  Participating Banks          ..51
Annex 4    Foreign Trade and Export Credit Demand  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Annex 5    Criteria and Procedure for PFI Qualification and
Accreditation   ..71
Annex 6    Foreign Exchange Market and Foreign Exchange Credit Market  . . . . 77
Annex 7    Estimated Disbursement Schedule of the Proposed Loan  . . . . . . . 83
Annex 8  Supervision Plan    ..84
Annex 9    List of Documents in Project File . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
This report was prepared by Ms. S. Brajovic-Bratanovic (EClCO), Mr. P. Van der Veen
(IENIM), and Mr. A Goldschmidt (Consultant). Peer review was conducted by
Messrs. M. Hinds (EMTDR), J. Nellis (PSD) and Ms. I. Zurayk (EC2CO). The following
individuals have also contributed to project preparation: R. Heath, R. Chalk,
H. Bhattacharya, E. Mangan (IENIM); S. Sattar (MNEPH), R. Roberts, L. Ponzio,
C. Calcopietro (Consultants).



ROMAN-IA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Romania
Loan Amount:                US$175 million
Beneficiaries:              Private enterprises and exporters, Ministry of
Industry (MOI), National Bank of Romania (NBR),
participating financial intermediaries.
Loan Terms:                 Single currency loan (SCL) in US dollars for twenty
years, including five years grace period, at Bank's
standard variable rate for SCLs denominated in US
dollars.
Onlending Terms:            The Government will onlend funds to the
participating financial intermediaries (PFI) in
US dollars at the prevailing six-months LIBOR plus
a margin of 30 basis points to be charged by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). The PFI subsidiary
loans will be extended on a first-come first-served
basis, back-to-back to PFI subloans to final
beneficiaries and vith the same maturities. The
PFIs subloans to the beneficiaries will be
denominated in US dollars at LIBOR plus the MOF
margin and a market-based PFI spread. The subloans
for investment finance will be provided at variable
market-based interest rates with 3-17 year
maturities and 1-5 years grace; the subloans for
export finance will be provided at fixed market-
based interest rates and up to one year maturities.
For both credit components, the final sub-borrowers
will bear the exchange risk. The PFIs will bear
the full credit risk of their subloans.
Proiect Descrigtion:        The Project will finance (a) investment of private
enterprises to improve international competitive-
ness and/or expand exports; (b) exDorts by
providing partial to full coverage of exporters'
pre-shipment finance needs for imported inputs; and
(c) technical assistance to help in designing and
implementing policies and strategies for
privatization and restructuring, and for
strengthening institutional capacity of the
individual PFIs.



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:         The expected benefits include: (a) improved
conditions for effective supply response;
(b) increased export potential, efficiency and
profitability of private industrial enterprises;
(c) improved capacity of the financial sector to
provide export and restructuring related finance;
(d) increased competition and integration of
Romanian financial markets; and (e) further advance
in building policy and institutional framework to
speed up ownership transformation and restructuring
and to stimulate the private sector growth. The
mechanisms developed and the technical assistance
put in place should yield significant demonstration
effects.
Institutional weaknesses and skill deficiencies of
banks, enterprise managements and government
agencies is the main risk. It is addressed through
TA covering all aspects where skill deficiencies
may jeopardize successful implementation, and
through increased Project supervision. There is
also a risk concerning PFI intermediation capacity
-- macroeconomic volatility and uncertain prospects
may adversely affect the PFIs' willingness to
engage in invc-tment lending or decrease their risk
exposure capacity. This is addressed through the
proposed Project conditionalities, by increasing
the capacity of banks to take and sustain risk
through mandatory loan classification and
provisioning and by increasing the level of general
loan loss reserves; through TA to improve the PFI's
capacity to assess and manage risk; by keeping open
access to eligible PFIs; and by maintaining
flexibility in the allocation of funds to the
export and investment finance components. The PFI
credit risk and the foreign exchange risk of final
beneficiaries have also been decreased by extending
a single currency loan. The macroeconomic
instability is a major risk, which is addressed by
the SAL and through ongoing policy dialogue with
the IMF and the Bank. In addition, the Bank will
review project implementation one year after loan
effectiveness with an option not to extend further
commitments in case of adverse developments.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ Million)
Local                    Foreign                 Total
Investment Credit        55.0                    102.0                   157.0
Export Credit           104.0                     70.0                   174.0
Technical Assistance      0.0                      3.0                     3.0
TOTAL              159.0                    175.0                   334.0



- iii -
Financinf Plan:
(US$ Million)
local                  Foreien                 Total
IBRD                       0.0                  175.0                   175.0
Sub-borrowers             40.0                    0.0                    40.0
Financial Intermediaries 119.0                    0.O                   119.0
TOTAL               159.0                  175.0                   334.0
Estimated Disbursement:
(US$ Million)
95           FY97                     FY98
Annual                   53.0         61.0         35.0        21.0          5.0
Cumulative               53.0        114.0       149.0        170.0       175.0



ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.01        In the period since the 1989 revolution, the Government of Romania
has formulated and started implementation of far-reaching reform programs to
stabilize the macroeconomic situation and to move towards an efficient market
economy. A new legal and institutional framework has been established, and the
policy framework has been substantially liberalized.   Commercialization and
corporatization of the state enterprise sector has been completed, and enterprise
management has been freed from direct government intervention in production and
investment decisions. Recognizing the difficulty of achieving an adequate supply
response and efficiency gains in enterprises owned and operated by the public
sector, the Government plans to divest 6,300 state-owned enterprises. Thirty
percent of the state's equity in commercial enterprises has already been divested
through allocation to five Private Ownership Fund^ and mass distribution of their
shares.   By end-1993,  about 490 small and medium-size companies have been
privatized and another 500 are in active preparation.   A program is being
developed to provide a variety of options for the full privatization of a large
number of enterprises, while at the same time motivating and assisting the
remaining viable enterprises to adjust effectively to the new market-oriented
environment during the transition to eventual privatization.
1.02        The ownership reform of the state sector is supplemented by a broad
program to support growth of indigenous private sector enterprises.   About
546,000 new private firms were registered by end-1993, of which about 30 percent
were in manufacturing and trade, and about 78 percent have already opened for
business. About 29,000 joint ventures have been formed by end-1993, of which
about 100 involve large state enterprises. In the 1991-1993 period, the private
sector has productively absorbed over one million employees and its participation
in GDP has grown from less than one percent in 1989 to about ten percent in 1991
and an estimated 30 percent in 1993.
1.03        There are, however, some areas where progress has been rather slow.
The enterprises' response to systemic and policy changes has been largely
reactive, such as stopping production and laying off labor; actual restructuring
has barely started.   The volume of foreign investments has been low, often
because of expected difficulties to obtain finance for post-privatization
restructuring. The growth of private firms has also been inhibited by crowding
out from access to capital,  raw materials,  and infrastructure.   Both the
Covernment and most enterprise managers, however, have come to realize the need
for an energetic proactive approach to restructuring and/or privatizing their
enterprises and to attracting foreign partners.
1.04        The  proposed  Industrial  Development  Project  will  assist  the
Government to speed up the process of transition by creating conditions for
faster and more efficient supply response and by supporting the establishment of
enabling policies and institutions. While the restructuring needs of Romanian
enterprises, especially in industry, are considerably greater than what can be



- 2 -
addressed through a single operation, it is anticipated that the proposed Project
will have a broad impact on the overall transition process through: (a) promoting
development of the private sector enterprises by providing financial support to
private enterprise restructuring and investment programs and to exploiting the
export potential of Romanian industry; (b) assistance in the desigr. of the
institutional and policy framework for privatization and restructuring, and in
creating an enabling environment to increase private sector share of the economy;
and (c) supporting the banking sector reform by improving prudential regulations
and  bank  supervision,   strengthening  individual  banks  and  encouraging
restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks. By generating growth and
employment in the private sector, the proposed Project would facilitate reforms
in the state sector by mitigating the cost of those reforms.
1.05        To support the proposed Project, the Government is requesting a Bank
loan of US$175 million.   The proposed Loan would include:   (a) a financing
component of US$172.0 million, including US$102 million for restructuring
investments in private industrial enterprises and US$70.0 million for export
financing to help realize Romania's export potential; and (b) a technical
assistance comRonent of US$3.0 million to support institution building and
training of staff in key government agencies and in the banking sector.
II.  INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
A. The Industrial Sector
(a)   Industrial Structure
2.01        By standards of most market economies, Romania has a la.ge industrial
sector, which in 1989 accounted for 58 percent of net material product and 38
percent  cf  total  employment.    In  the  traditional  pattern  of  socialist
industrialization, Romania has promoted producer goods industries.   In 1989,
these accounted for 56 percent of the total industrial output, while the share
of consumer goods subsectors (i.e., textiles, garments, food processing,
electronics and consumer durables) declined during the 1980s to only 24.5 percent
of the output.
2.02        Among the producer goods industries, machine building had a dominant
position, accounting for about 28 percent of gross output in 1989 and about 36
percent of the net material product by industry.   This specialization was
strongly influenced by Romania's position in the CMEA markets.   The second
largest subsector was chemicals, including oil refining and petrochemicals. It
accounted for about 21 percent of the total industrial output in 1989.  This
subsector oiiginally derived its importance from the domestic endowment in oil
and natural gas resources.   These resources have been badly depleted by the
1980s, however, and must now be supplemented by oil and natural gas imports.
Metallurgy, the third largest subsector, kept its share at about 9.8 percent of
industrial output throughout the 1980s.



2.03        High energy intensity and obsolete and worn-out capital stock are
common characteristics of Romanian manufacturing technology. Priority given to
new investments rather than modernization of the existing capital stock during
the 1980s, combined witk the decline in equipment imports from OECD countries and
the stagnation of imports from the CMEA, resulted in the growing obsolescence of
Romanian industry. Whi? obscure depreciation rules make realistic estimates
rather difficult, it appears that by 1990 about half of the fixed capital of
Romanian industry had already been fully depreciated. The particular situation
varies by sector.
(b)   Economic Environment and Impact of Recent Policy Reforms
2.04        At the start of the reform in 1990, large sections of Romanian
industry were inefficient at international market prices.  Historically, the
inefficiencies persisted due to the price distortions in e. ptive domestic
markets, an indiscriminate flow of funds from the Government, a certain degree
of cross-subsidization between domestic and international markets and an
orientation toward CMEA markets. The industrial performance in the past has been
also constrained by the lack of micro level incentives fcr improving enterprise
performance and the constrained mobility of resources.
2.05        The regulatory,  institutional and business environment of the
enterprise sector has significantly changed since the reform started. The policy
reform started in 1991.   Measures aiming toward correcting relative prices,
imposing hard-budget constraints, limiting access to credit and increasing
competition, have put the enterprise sector under enormous stress. With higher
prices of inputs and limited scope for increasing output, due to the drastically
falling demand in domestic and in the CMEA markets and increasing international
competition, many enterprises have faced sharp declines in their sales.
Industrial output fell by about 18 percent in 1990 and 20 percent in 1991 (a two-
year drop of about 36 percent); in 1992, industrial production was about 22
percent lower than in 1991 (or about 52 percent of its 1989 level). The output
decline leveled off in 1993; the total industrial production volume registered
an increase of about one percent. There were, however, marked adjustments in the
output of specific subsectors. For example, food and beverages, wood, pulp and
paper, and textiles sector produced 10-15 percent less than in the same period
in 1992; various branches of chemical industry (e.g., artificial fibers, plastic,
rubber) increased output 2-5 percent, as have varioui branches of machine
building; electrical machines and metallurgy increased output by 8 percent; most
successful were the furniture, consumer electronics, and road transport vehicles
branch, with 20-29 percent output increases.
2.06        The foreign trade performance was negatively affected by the decline
of CMEA markets and by the confusion accompanying systemic collapse.   In
addition, in 1991 and 1992, Romania lost two prominent trading partners (Iraq and
Yugoslavia) due to the UN embargo. In 1990, the convertible currency exports
fell to about 56 percent of their 1989 level, and declined by another 4 percent
in 1991. In 1992, the export decline was successfully arrested mostly due to the
significantly improved policy environment, including trade liberalization, open
entry policies, rationalization and lowering of tariffs, improved management of
the foreign exchange regime and leave the full retention policy. The convertible



- 4 -
currency exports grew by about 22 percent compared to their 1991 volume and
remained at about the same level in 1993. The industrial sector still accounts
for the bulk of exports, with a share of about 85 percent in 1993, a decrease
from about 95 percent in 1989. More detailed analysis of export performance is
provided in Annex 4.   The participation of the private sector in export
activities has substantially increased; in 1993, the private sector accounted for
about 27 percent of total exports.
2.07        The restructuring programs in Romania have been left almost entirely
to the initiative of enterprise management. The most prominent element of the
enterprise adjustment so far has been labor retrenchment. This has been more
pronounced in labor-intensive sectors, where the cost of labor represents a
higher percentage of the variable cost of production and the skill level is
lower. In capital-intensive industries, the labor retrenchment is smaller, since
the loss of skilled labor could become an unsurmountable problem if the
enterprises' prospects improved. In the aggregate, in 1991, the retrenchment of
labor led to an 11 percent decline in the total industrial employment as compared
to 1989.  The trend continued in 1992, with the total industrial employment
falling to about 76 percent of its 1989 level.   The manufacturing sector
witnessed the most significant employment decline; in 1992, the employment stood
at about 85 percent of its 1991 level and 77 percent of its 1990 level.
Nonetheless, the slow pace of retrenchment relative to output contraction in
industry gcnerated an 11 percent reduction in the average labor productivity in
1991, and further 17 percent decline in 1992.  In 1993, however, this trend
reversed, showing an increase in labor productivity of about 7 percent.
B. EnterRrise Reform
2.08        About 6,300 enterprises in public ownership dominate the Romanian
corporate sector.  In 1989, they accounted for about 92 percent of the total
economic establishments; the industrial sector comprised 2,102 public
enterprises.   By the end of 1990, essential elements of the new regulatory
framework were in place to start the enterprise reform:  Law No. 54, on Free
Initiative and Small Business Establishment, legalized small-scale private
initiative; Law No. 96 on Foreign Capital Investments opened Romania to foreign
investors; and Law No. 31 on Corporations provided a regulatory framework for the
establishment and management of commercial companies. Law 31 established a two-
tier governance structure comprised of an Administration Council, elected by the
general shareholders meeting to exercise ownership interest in a commercial
company, and a Management Board, appointed by the Administration Council for
operational management of a company. For companies in state ownership, the role
of a general shareholders meeting is played by the Council of State
Representatives.
2.09        Law No.15 on Restructuring of State Economic Unit has initiated a
full-scale commercialization and corporatization of the Romanian state-owned
enterprises, except for a number of designated strategic sectors (e.g., military,
power, mining, oil and gas exploration and exploitation, telecommunications).
Enterprises have been converted into state-owned autonomous companies (RA, regie
autonomes) and commercial companies (CC, joint-stock limited liability).
Allowing for full managerial autonomy, the Government's objectives were to impose



. 5 -
hard budget constraints and managerial accountability on both categories and to
privatize the commercial companies. The National Agency for Privatization has
been established to lead the conversion and the subsequent privatization process.
2.10        By mid-1991,  the commercialization of the corporate sector was
completed.   Of the total number of about 6,700 companies, about 600 regie
autonomes1 and about 6,300 commercial companies were established. Of about 2,140
enterprises under the manufacturing arm of the MOI, about 20 were classified as
RAs and the rest are now operating as commercial companies.   Through the
conversion of enterprises into CCs, property rights were intended to be
concentrated in a corporate board (i.e., the Administration Council) appointed
by the owners: initially the parent ministries, then the State and tne Private
Ownership Funds and eventually the new private shareholders. The introduction
of the corporate governance framework, under Law No. 31, was accomplished rather
quickly, but decision-making continued to be hampered by unclear ownership rights
and responsibilities.
2.11        A  numbsr  of  ownership  and  management  issues  critical  for
implementation were addressed during Project preparation, as otherwise they could
have slowed privatization, negatively affected access to Bank credit lines, and
complicated  decisions  related  to  enterprise  borrowing  and  subproject
implementation. Specifically, the Government has: (a) streamlined the structure
and clarified the responsibilities of the Council of State Representatives, which
acts as a general shareholders meeting for CCs in state ownership, and of the
Administration Council, with an objective to enhance the decision-making process
concerning enterprise privatization and restructuring;2 and (b) introduced
management contracts for enterprises in (majority) state ownership aiming to
clearly establish managerial accountability and performance-based management
incentives.3
C. Privatizationl
2.12        The Government considers privatization to be the most effective way
to improve enterprise efficiency by providing better incentives to capital,
management and labor. The privatization policy has been gradually developed
through extensive discussions with the Bank and through consulting assistance
provided by the EC-PHARE. The Privatization Law was promulgated in mid-1991 with
the principal objective of transferring all Romanian CCs to private hands within
seven years. Besides speed, the other major concerns of the Government have been
the transparency and fairness of the process, and the amelioration of its social
costs.
I/ Subsequent review mandated by the SAL reduced this number to about 430 at end-1993.
2/ Respective amendments to Law 31 were a condition for negotiations.
0/ Submission of Law on Management contracts to the Parliament was a condition for Board presentation.



*6-
(a)   Privatization Program
2.13        The privatization program concerns about 6,300 enterprises with about
4 million employees.  It stipulates the distribution of 30 percent of state
patrimony to Romanian citizens in the form of Certificates of Ownership (CO) in
five Private Ownership Funds (POF). Each citizen holds COs of all five funds,
and the COs may be exchanged for shares of commercial companies in the process
of privatization.  The POFs, with portfolios of about equal values, hold 30
percent of the shares of virtually all Romanian CCs and are expected to manage
their portfolios so as to advance the privatization process, and to raise the
value of the outstanding COs. The 70 percent balance of the CCs shares have been
allocated to the State Ownership Fund (SOF).  The SOF mandate is to sell its
portfolio of shares or liquidate enterprises or their components in annual
programs, each comprising at least 10 percent of the initial SOF portfolio, until
the CCs are completely privatized (in maximum seven years).
2.14        In addition, the Privatizarion Law has initiated early privatization
of about 30 medium to large enterprises and a process of small asset sales. For
the early enterprise privatization, the objective of the program has been to gain
hands-on experience in various modes of privatization, including private
placements, public floating of shares and employee or management buy-outs. For
the sale of assets, where the enterprises themselves decide to offer an asset for
sale and enjoy the sale proceeds, the objectives have been to:  provide an
immediate means to start restructuring enterprise balance sheets; allow more
efficient use of assets by the private sector; and gain experience in competitive
bidding processes.
(b)   Institutional Framework
2.15        The institutional framework for large-scale privatization in Romania
assigns the major roles to the SOF and the five POFs. These institutions are
placed under the auspices of the Perliament. The SOF by-laws were enacted in
June 1992.4   They define  the SOF as the public agency responsible for
privatization, for restructuring including liquidations, and for providing
corporate guidance to all Romanian companies. The SOF is expected to divest its
ownership share of enterprises within a period of seven years; its first
privatization program was presented to the Parliament in January 1993.5 Since
its establishment in October 1992, the SOF has focused on attaining institutional
capacity to privatize small and medium-size companies; its capacity to address
restructuring and liquidation will be addressed only in 1994.   Given the
multitude of responsibilities and the size of its portfolio, the SOF must
continue to devote a massive effort to building its capacity, and its
institutional culture and skills. Success of this effort will be one of the
critical factors in the transition.
4/ Finalization of the SOF by-laws, establishment of its Board and initial sw.affing were conditions for
appraisal of the proposed Project.
If Formulation of 1993 Privatization Program, its submission to the Parliament and subsequent approval was a
condition of project effectiveness.



- 7 -
2.16        The POF by-laws were adopted by the Parliament in July 1992.  The
POFs are defined as comr.mercial companies, which are a hybrid between a holding
company and a mutual fund. They have a number of objectives: to improve the
value of their portfolios and of underlying COs; to provide for orderly exchange
of COs for CCs shares; and to speed up the privatization process by sharing with
the SOF the responsibility for privatization. The POFs' headquarters are placed
in five different towns to bring direct exposure to experiences of market economy
to local environments. Since the POFs are smaller and more dynamic agents than
the SOF, the portfolio allocation and the resulting portfolio management policies
will substantially influence the speed and success of privatization and the
course of restructuring in Romania. The proposed Project assisted in finalizing
the design of the POFs.6
2.17        The next step in the privatization program is the development of
methodologies, procedures and programs for large-scale privatization, including
detailed quantitative targets and implementation plans for the various
privatization schemes. The manner by which the state exercises its ownership
rights is of utmost importance for privatization, as well as in critical cases
of enterprises being restructured. Therefore, the formulation of a comprehensive
package of instruments to exercise ownership rights and provide corporate
guidance to CCs is also on the agenda. Constraints which may inhibit the pace
of implementation would also have to be addressed, such as the occasional
conflicting roles of the various agencies involved in the process; the inadequacy
of the financial sector; and the lack of managerial and/or institutional capacity
in many CCs to turn them around and make them profitable and attractive to
private investors.
(c)   Privatization to Date
2.18        Considerable privatization has already taken place in Romania.  The
principal path to private ownership, in terms of private capital commitment, has
been through joint ventures with a foreign partner. Since the enactment of the
Law on Foreign Investments in 1990, over 29,000 joint ventures, with committed
capital of about US$760 million, have been formed.   Similar to experiences
elsewhere in Eastern Europe, foreign investments have initially involved a large
number of ventures with small capital commitments; in 1992, the investors'
philosophy changed, and new joint ventures involved larger companies (about 103
joint ventures so far) and higher capital commitments. Another major path to
privatization has been through leasing assets to a private company or through
management contracts (an estimated 50,000 contracts). Both mentioned routes to
privatization have largely been initiated and managed by the enterprises
themselves. Finally, there has been a spectacular growth of indigenous private
sector enterprises (further elaborated in Section E).
2.19        The early grivatization program was completed in early 1993.  About
2,900 assets, mostly shops, warehouses, smaller production facilities and, to a
lesser extent, underutilized production equipment, have been sold from the
li Finalization of POF by-laws, POP portfolio allocations and registration of POTs, and establishment of
their Boards were a condition for appraisal of the proposed Project.



- 8 -
initial list of about 7,800 assets. About 22 small and medium companies have
been privatized. Shares of two of these companies were successfully floated on
the market by the domestic banks; employee and management buyouts have been used
in about 18 cases; and about five cases involved private placements with foreign
investors.
2.20        The enactment of the small enterprises privatization methodology
(para. 2.22), a fast-track standard procedure, has substantially advanced
privatization of small companies. By March 1994, about 400 had been sold mostly
through management and employee buyouts. The SOF, with the responsibility to
prepare enterprise evaluation and lead negotiations, estimates that it would take
another two years to privatize all enterprises in the "small" category, the major
obstacle being the lack of institutional capacity to prepare evaluations and
negotiate deals. The SOF is currently able to privatize about 60-80 enterprises
per month.   Of the medium size companies, about 100 have been targeted for
privatization, and 39 have been privatized; of the large companies, three have
been privatized.
(d)   Measures to Speed-up Privatization
2.21        In order to meet the ambitious privatization targets, specific
measures are needed to speed up the process by proceeding on parallel tracks and
by employing new innovative approaches,  including mass privatization.   The
recently elaborated privatization program for 1994 recognizes this need and, as
detailed below, the Government is committed to taking steps to introduce other
measures to speed up the privatization process.
2.22        The aggregate CC portfolio has been classified in three categories,
according to the size of the CCs. Privatization is now proceeding on parallel
tracks; for each category, specific measures have been or will be introduced to
speed up privatization. Small companies are to be privatized through a simple
competitive bidding procedure, similar to the one used for the sale of assets.
It is managed by a committee, including SOF/POF and NAP representatives.7 Of the
total of about 6,300 CCs to be privatized by the SOF, about 3,100 have been
classified in the "small" category. Likely investors targeted for this group of
CCs include enterprise managers and employees; private entrepreneurs whose
companies have successfully grown or who are integrating backwards from the trade
business; and small foreign investors.
2.23        For the medium-size companies, a group of about 2,500 CCs, the
responsibility to manage privatization is assigned to the POFs.   The POF
portfolio distribution allows POPs to specialize by industrial sectors or by
geographical regions. In mid-1993, to encourage the privatization of the medium-
size CCs, the SOF issued instructions empowering management of CCs in a
financially viable condition and operating in competitive markets (i.e., there
are more than three domestic producers) to seek private investors (targeting
foreign companies). The SOF also issued methodological norms for the preparation
7/ The procedure was enacted in January 1993, originally being a condition for effectiveness of the proposed
Project, and is in implementation since May 1993.



of the privatization prospectus. Once an investor has been found, the management
is asked to contact the SOF and to formally initiate the privatization process.
To accelerate the privatization of medium-size CCs, a number of new innovative
mass privatization schemes are being designed and will be introduced through
selected pilot exercises, evaluated and then fully implemented on a large scale.
2.24        These include:  a)  Rrivatization funds, in the form of privately-
managed investment companies which would bid for a majority of shares of CCs of
their choice. A number of investment companies is currently under preparation
and one (Capital SA) has already been established. The founders of investment
companies are typically Romanian banks (e.g., Tiriac and RBFT in the case of
Capital SA) or other non-bank financial institutions, and one or more foreign
financial institutions (e.g., EBRD and Wasserstein Perella in the case of Capital
SA);  b) privatization  through  the use of success-fee-based privatization
management contracts. The SOF plans to retain reputable foreign consultants to
find foreign investors for a batch of companies in a sector and would reimburse
consultants with a percentage of the sales price once the privatization deal is
completed.   The sector-based privatization will be initiated for textiles,
garments, detergents, wood-based industries, and a number of other sectors;
c) real estate investment funds are being discussed; and d) an additional mass
privatization scheme or an improvement of the existing scheme allowing COs to be
used to purchase the SOF shares is being actively considered.
2.25        The large companies, including about 700 CCs, are to be privatized
on a case-by-case basis. The SOF will take the responsibility of preparing the
company, in terms of downsizing and shaping up the operations, and actively
seeking foreign investors.   For certain very large companies, typically in
capital-intensive sectors, foreign investors are few and can easily be identified
from a small number of international conglomerates. The privatization of such
sectors (e.g., steel, non-ferrous metallurgy, fertilizers, refineries, cement)
would be approached on a sectoral basis and through specific sector restructuring
and privatization strategies.
D. Restructuring
(a) Government's Industrial Strategy
2.26        The Government's approach to industrial restructuring distinguishes
between two types of enterprises and subsectors: a) enterprises in capital-
intensive sectors, where the restructuring should be introduced in the context
of sector rationalization strategy and where the size of enterprises and their
importance in local and national economy justify a more direct government
involvement; b) enterprises in sectors which already operate in commercial market
conditions and where the restructuring could be left to market forces and to
enterprise management initiative.   The first type of government-engineered
restructuring notably includes sectors with the largest number of lossmakers
(i.e., metallurgy, chemicals and machine building) and subsectors characterized
by gross overcapacity comprising a number of production units with virtually
identical technology and undifferentiated products (such as fertilizers and
refineries).



- 10 -
2.27        The short-term program specifically targets large lossmakers that
need urgent intervention and support to cut the operating losses that will
eventually be either liquidated, merged with others, or downsized to the point
where resulting units may become viable.   In almost all cases, it involves
enterprises where liquidation or restructuring will have significant socio-
political implications. About 100 large enterprises, mostly from metallurgy,
chemicals and machine building sectors, have already been identified, including
some of the 30 enterprises with the largest interenterprise arrears followed by
the SAL, enterprises with the largest arrears with the banking system and with
the largest overdue tax liabilities.   In June 1993, the Government started
implementation of an emergency program by selecting 30 enterprises in critical
financial condition, isolating them from other economic agents and placing them
under surveillance of a restructuring committee.
2.28        The medium-term adjustment program, beyond 1996, has a "constructive
restructuring" dimension. It is intended for industrial branches and individual
enterprises that are considered viable and with growth potential, even if they
are not presently profitable. The targeted industrial subsectors include: light
machine building, food industry, small-tonnage chemical industry, and traditional
export-oriented light industries. In order to support the restructuring process,
the Government plans to finance investment projects, guarantee commercial
credits, reschedule debts, bring in private financing together with state
funding, and provide moderate protection for the subsectors deemed to be in the
national interest.
2.29        Both the short- and the medium-term industrial adjustment program
give   high priority to the closure of economically non-viable enterprises.
However, the method of selecting such enterprises is still unclear and their
access to finance seems to leave too much room for discretion. It is crucial
that large state-financed restructuring be confined to a few vital RAs and to a
limited number of CCs that are expected to remain in state ownership in the near
future and that cannot be closed down, and to demonopolization that needs to be
implemented prior to privatization.
2.30        The Government's exact role and the rationale for its involvement in
the industrial restructuring process has still not been well defined. According
to the Privatization Law, the SOF, being the majority shareholder of CCs, is
responsible for their restructuring, while the responsibility for restructuring
of RAs remains  with branch ministries.    The branch ministries are also
responsible for industrial sector strategies. The MOI has launched extensive
sector studies covering 85 subsectors, of which 52 have been completed. On the
basis of these studies, the MOI plans to devise a comprehensive industrial
policy, including restructuring and privatization, that will be forwarded to the
SOF to serve as a guideline for enterprise restructuring strategies.   The
Government is currently refocusing the responsibilities of the MOI, including
support to establishment of an enabling environment for the private sector. The
proposed Project would support this effort in a number of ways: (a) by helping
the MOI to define its new role and how it would be exercised; (b) by assisting
the MOI to develop sector restructuring strategies; and (c) by providing
technical assistance to the MOI to develop the necessary institutional capacity
(Annex 1).



- 11 -
2.31        In view, however, of the heavy competing demands on fiscal and
external resources, the Government's direct role in enterprise restructuring can
only be modest. It should be restricted to helping with labor retrenchment, and
disposal of all peripheral activities and assets. Most restructuring is best
left to new private owners. The provision of money for new investment can only
be highly exceptional, and even then can most prudently be organized between the
banks  and  their  clients  in  enterprise  workouts.    To  facilitate  this
restructuring, the Government should clearly signal to the enterprises that they
must focus on reducing costs and that they should plan the rationalization of
their activities without expecting state financial assistance.
2.32        Parallel  to the Government-managed programs,  there will be  a
restructuring process initiated and managed by enterprises themselves, which will
be financed by enterprises' own funds and by the banking sector.  This will
include viable enterprises, which already operate in competitive markets, and
enterprises subject to post-privatization restructuring. Restructuring of the
latter will be supported by the investment component of the proposed Project.
(b) Institutional Framework and Recent Developments
2.33        According to Law 58, the SOF bears the responsibility for corporate
governance and restructuring of CCs. Since its establishment, the SOF has been
primarily concerned with building institutional capacity for privatization and
with privatizing small companies. To get ahead with the restructuring of the 30
isolated enterprises, the Government has created a provisional Rescructuring
Committee (RC). International experts were retained, with Bank's help, to assess
financial recovery programs prepared by managements of isolated companies and to
recommend a course of action.  In December 1993, the Restructuring Committee
proposed and the Government endorsed an action plan to downsize 21, to liquidate
six, and to privatize three enterprises.
2.34        The first isolation exercise having proved to be a promising approach
in addressing the issue of enterprise restructuring and of enforcing financial
discipline, the Government is planning to extend it to a second and larger group
of troubled enterprises, including some RAs. In January 1994, the Government
established another list of 30 enterprises (5 RAs and 25 CCs) which, on
aggregate, represent 50 percent of the losses and 45 percent of the inter-
enterprise arrears of the state-enterprise sector. In order to eventually return
to profitability and to settle their arrears, these enterprises must undergo a
drastic exercise in loss-reduction and downsizing. Some debt-relief measures and
recapitalization may be inescapable. Eventually, some of them will be either
liquidated, merged with others, spun off as separate units, or privatized. In
almost all these cases, the restructuring will have significant socio-political
implications.
2.35        A more permanent institutional arrangement has also been implemented
in 1994. An independent SOF subsidiary, called the Directorate for Selective
Restructuring, with a separate balance sheet, has been created to manage
restructuring, including liquidation of large loss-making enterprises. It took
over the implementation of the RC decisions and would eventually consider all 80
to 120 firms deemed critical to the stabilization process.  The RC has been



- 12 -
dismantled, but the Government has institutionalized its functions in the form
of a department called the Restructuring Agency, under the Council for
Coordination,  Strategy and Economic Reform.   The most important immediate
challenges are: a) to efficiently implement restructuring decisions regarding
the first 30 problem enterprises; b) to clearly define rules that would help
select the next group of enterprises that should be put in isolation; and c) to
ensure that the new SOF subsidiary does not create an open-ended subsidy system
with little or no incentive. to effectively force either exit or privatization.
A strong signal must continuously be sent to loss-making and other enterprises
that they must adjust or face liquidation.
2.36        Industrial Technology Infrastructure.   Over the long run,  the
Government   intends  to  develop  a  comprehensive   industrial   technology
infrastructure to help enterprise managements to improve their business and
technical practices. A study, financed by the proposed Project (Annex 1), would
review the existing 140 institutes, which were a basis of the industrial
technology infrastructure ir the old regime, aiming to conceptualize and develop
a practical implementation program for a new market and service-oriented
framework. Consideration would be given to streamlining and strengthening part
of the existing structures, including changing the ownership of the institutes
to transform them into private, specialized, services-oriented facilities.
E. Private Sector Development
(a)   Small Scale Private Sector (SME)
2.37        A large number of private sector enterprises have been established
since the revolution. By end-1993, about 546,000 firms were registered, of which
29 percent as family establishments under Law No. 54, and the rest as
partnerships and joint-stock companies under Law No. 31. About 78 percent of
these companies have opened for business. A breakdown of registered SMEs by area
of economic activity indicates that about 30 percent are active in manufacturing
and trade and the rest in the agriculture and services sector.   There is
relatively equal participation by family associations and commercial companies
in manufacturing and trade; in the services sector, commercial companies dominate
strongly, accounting for over 76 percent of SMEs.
2.38        Romania looks to the emerging private sector to provide a major
impetus for economic expansion, employment, innovation and growth during the
transition. Indigenous small and medium enterprises would likely be the only
agents capable of absorbing the excess labor certain to be cast off from
restructured or liquidated state enterprises.   Despite the lack of proper
institutional framework, difficulties with access to finance and "red-tape" in
many other areas, the SME growth has been remarkable. In the 1991-1993 period,
the SME sector (excluding agriculture) productively absorbed over one million
people. By 1993, over 5,000 of these new private companies employed between 21
and 50 employees, and about 800 had more than 50 employees. Their output grew
from less than one percent of GDP in 1989 to about ten percent in 1991, and an
estimated 30 percent in 1993. The markets for larger production-oriented SMEs
are mostly domestic; only about nine percent of their output is exported. They
mostly operate in the final goods markets.



- 13 -
2.39        As part of an effort to develop a viable and coherent PSD strategy,
the Department for Private Small and Medium Enterprises of the National Agency
for Privatization (DPSME/NAP) conducted a national survey on the impact of the
social and economic environment on private sector development in Romania. The
sample was composed of 1,500 small and medium enterprises. In a separate effort
funded by the EC-PHARE, a consultant surveyed 200 newly-established SMEs. The
survey findings raise concerns, as they indicate that the current environment
does not allow the SME sector to utilize its full potential. The Government is
aware of these problems and intends to create a more favorable environment and
a supportive institutional framework for SME development, including actions to:
(a)   create a supportive institutional framework, including government
agencies and non-governmental entities run by entrepreneurs,
operating at the national and the regional levels;
(b)   improve coordination, eliminate overlaps,  improve targeting and
reLevance of programs and activities for SME support and increase
the quality of SME-related services;
(c)   provide SME-related services, including direct advice and training
of entrepreneurs on legal provisions, accounting and bookkeeping,
financial management, loan applications and other banking matters,
marketing, business planning, production management, financial
planning, etc;
(d)   improve SME access to financing; and
(e)   address the most urgent problems related to SME operations and to
remove red tape.
2.40        Progress has alread, been made on some of the programs agreed on in
the course of the proposed Project preparation.  At the regional level, the
Government is playing a catalytic role to encourage formation of various
associations of entrepreneurs. A study concerning options to provide the SME
credit guarantees has been completed, and an SME Credit Guarantee Fund has been
established.8 The SME Credit Guarantee Fund is owned by the Government, by the
banks which intend to use its services and by a number of private investors, and
will be operated on a commercial basis. From the twelve-point action program,
the barriers to private sector access to the social safety net and other social
services have been removed; a program for promotion of entrepreneurship through
mass media has been finalized and its implementation started; two pilot
incubation centers have been established; and agreements with a number of
universities were signed allowing entrepreneurs access to their facilities and
training.
8/ This was a condition for negotiations of the proposed Project.



- 14 -
III. FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Curgent Structure of the Financial Sector
3.01        Until December 1989, the Romanian financial system operated under the
central planning mechanism. Financial flows were controlled administratively,
leaving little role for central or commercial banking functions. The National
Bank of Romania (NBR) issued notes but had little responsibility for the money,
credit, or interest rate policy. Savings were mobilized through the Savings Bank
(CEC), which lent out a small portion of its resources in the form of housing
loans and passed the remainder to the NBR. The Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade
(RBFT), the Investment Bank (now the Romanian Bank for Development, RDB) and the
Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (now Bank Agricola, BA), respectively,
were responsible for lending to the trade sector, the state enterprise sector and
agriculture.   All risks were absorbed by the Government.   Consequently, the
banks' capitalization was extremely low. Funds were mostly borrowed from the NBR
and supplemented by deposits from clients in their respective sectors. The NBR
also had quasi-commercial banking functions, taking deposits of state enterprises
and making short-term loans, mostly for working capital.
3.02        Reform of the banking system has been initiated early in the process
of transition to a market economy. Entry to the banking sector was liberalized
as soon as the new Government took office.   A two-tier banking system was
established by late 1990, and formally legislated in April 1991 with the passage
of the Law on Banking Activity and the Law Concerning the Status of the National
Bank of Romania. The Banking Law endows commercial banks with universal banking
powers, and the NBR is given a high degree of formal independence.
3.03        By the end of 1990 a number of private banks was established,
including the Bank for Small Industry and Private Initiative (MIND), the
Cooperative Credit Bank (CCB) and the Ion Tiriac Bank for Commerce (TCB). Limits
of the types of customers and financial services that could be provided by
foreign banks were lifted, and entry for new foreign or mixed ownership banks was
liberalized. This group currently includes the Chemical Bank (CBF), the Societe
Generale (SGF), the Frankfurt-Bucharest and the MISR Bank. There were also new
entries by banks in state ownership, including the Romanian Commercial Bank
(RCB), which was formed in late 1990 by carving out the commercial portfolio from
the balance sheet of the NBR; and the Export-Import Bank of Romania (EXIM), which
was established in 1991 to strengthen financial services to the foreign trade-
oriented industrial and services sectors. By late 1991, the private bank, Dacia
Felix (DFB, based in Cluj), the Banca Creditului Romanesc S.A. (Credit Bank) and
the Bank Post, S.A. were created. The Romanian commercial banking sector now
comprises six state-owned banks, six private banks (with Romanian capital and
joint ventures) and the Bucharest branches of four foreign banks. Another seven
private banks have passed registration and are preparing to open for business.
More detailed analysis of the Romanian banking sector is provided in Annex 2.



- 15 -
B. Financial Sector Reform
3.04        Substantial strengthening of the financial sector is required for it
to be able to support the process of transition, especially privatization and
industrial restructuring. The banking system is characterized by high market
concentration, weak funding base, rigid and unsophisticated structure of funding
and lending instruments, and high nominal growth (Annex 2). Open access and the
universal banking principle have yielded a multitude of new private banks and the
emergence of competition. Bank capitalization has been substantially improved.
At end-1991, the capitalization of the commercial banking sector was about 2
percent. By end-1992, the capitalization improved to about 8 percent and in 1993
only two banks were below the international capital adequacy standard.
3.05        The NBR is increasingly using indirect instruments to manage monetary
and credit policies, and interest rates have been fully liberalized.9 It has
enacted prudential regulations concerning new bank licensing; ownership of banks
and qualification of its management; branching; credit risk exposure to a single
client and affiliated groups; and currency risk exposure rules. The Supervision
Department has been reorganized and strengthened and has already started on-site
supervision. Donor TA and direct assistance by the NB of Holland has been and
will continue to be readily available to the NBR.
3.06        The current business environment is still not fully conducive to the
development of healthy financial intermediaries. The macroeconomic environment
is volatile, and a level playing field for all economic agents has not been fully
implemented. This creates problems in appraising and pricing credit, interest
rate and currency risks. The current level of (tax deductible) general loan loss
reserves mandated at 0.5 percent of banks' asset portfolio, taxes banks' capacity
to sustain risk.  Income is reported on accrual basis which inflates banks'
profitability and profits are taxed on nominal rather than inflation-adjusted
bases. Specific measures are urgently needed to increase banks' capacity to take
and sustain risk, and to make sure that reported financial position reflects
banks' business reality. This includes: (a) introduction of rules for risk-
based capital adequacy; (b) rules on asset classification and provisioning; and
(c) increase in (tax deductible) general loan loss reserves to a level
commensurate to financial risk inherent in the current business environment.10
3.07        The proposed Project would also contribute to strengthening of the
banking system by improving business practices for appraisal of projects and
clients and by providing technical assistance to strengthen individual banks'
appraisal capacities; by introducing new instruments and financial services
related to export finance; and by stimulating competition and assisting the small
private banks to penetrate corporate credit markets. Assistance would also be
provided to the NBR to facilitate the implementation of prudential regulations,
9/ The interest rates liberalization is not fully effective in Romanian financial markets, especially in the
deposit market. This is due to the inherited structural rigidities (see Annex 2).
10/ Conditions for loan effectiveness of the proposed Project.



- 16 -
to improve banks' capacities to manage their risks and asset/liability
portfolios; and to improve banks' internal controls and audits (Annex 1).
C. Financial Markets
3.08        Financial intermediation in Romania is performed almost exclusively
by the banking system. Credit markets have traditionally been characterized by
strong segmentation. This segmentation was both logical (e.g., different credit
conditions and access rules) and institutional (i.e., access was provided only
through assigned banks). Due to the market segmentation, economic agents have
faced different conditions of access and different marginal pricing, depending
on their identity, economic activity, ownership, size, etc. The new Banking Law
(i.e., free entry and branching, universal banking) and the change of rules
allowing economic agents to select their bank addressed some of the main issues
of the credit markets in Romania. The investment credit markets are, however,
still dominated by the two state-owned banks (RDB and BA), which hold about 80
percent shares in the respective markets for industry and agriculture lending,
and by the RCB, which dominates the short-term end of the corporate credit
markets. The RBFT and the new private banks are successfully challenging their
dominance. Moreover, these new banks are also playing an extremely positive role
in contributing to the integration of the traditionally segmented credit markets
in Romania.
3.09        While interest rate deregulation measures and the abolishment of
direct credit controls have provided more scope for the working of market forces
in banking and finance, other measures are also needed aimed at: (a) unifying
the market; (b) strengthening the competitive structure of the banking system;
(c) improving the competitiveness of financial institutions; and (d) improving
the capacity of the banks to analyze risk and to price loans accordingly. The
proposed Project, by opening access to all qualified banks and providing
technical assistance to strengthen their capacities, aims to address operational
aspects of the noted issues.
3.10        Since the revolution, the total credit has substantially contracted
in real terms (Table 3.1). At end-1993, the volume of credit in real terms was
only about 34 percent of that in 1989. The maturity structure has also changed.
While the long-term end of the credit market accounted for 28 percent of the
total market in 1989, its share declined to about 8 percent   in 1993 and the
volume to about 10 percent of that in 1989. Another important structural change
is a much larger number of market participants. On the supply side, the number
of banks has roughly doubled, although the newcomers still accounted for about
12 percent of the total domestic credit market at end-1993. There was also a
substantial increase on the demand side. Due to the enterprise commercialization
and the new private sector entrants, the number of credit transactions has
increased by more than ten times.
3.11        Investment Credit Market.  Bank credit has traditionally had only a
limited role in the industrial investment finance.   In the state enterprise
sector, about 55 to 60 percent of investment has been financed directly by the
budget, another 25 to 30 percent by the retained earnings and depreciation funds,
and only 9 to 12 percent by the banks. For investments in modernization,



- 17 -
rehabilitation or expansion, up to 80 percent has been financed from depreciation
and retained earnings. Credit control has traditionally been maintained through
credit ceilings determined by the type of credit and industrial activity. The
financial sector reform has formally replaced this mechanism with discretionary
contractual relations based on bank assessments of projects' viability and
clients' creditworthiness. The industrial credit market currently accounts for
about 20-25 percent of total credit in Romania, a significant fall from the over
45-50 share traditionally held in the last two decades. The market is dominated
by public enterprises.
Table 3.1: Non-Government Credit Volume in Real Terms
Domestic Credit     | Foreign Exchange  l
Total Credit                                     Credit 1/
Notn-goverrnment
bil. Lei   ;/      Short-Term     Long-Term
l___________LX'                         a/      A/      A/ v/           a/
1989       810      100     100      70    100    28        100      2
1990       683      80       74     64    94       33        42      3
1991     1,375      58      28      77    34       19        24      4
1992     1,915      40       43     75    20   _ 14          56      11
1993     4,555       34      38     77    10        8        67      15
Source: NBR
Annual Inflation: 1990 - 105; 1991 - 279; 1992 - 200; 1993 - 280
Deflator Coefficients in Relation to 1989: 1990 W 1.05; 1991 - 2.93; 1992 - 5.86; 1993  16.41
1/ Volume in real terms in percentages of 1989 volume
a' Term structure in percentages of total credit
3/ Converted at official NBR reference rates: 1989 - 12; 1990 - 35; 1991 - 186; 1992 - 430; 1993 - 1250
3.12        Term-credit has severely contracted since the revolution.  In 1991,
its volume in real terms was a mere 34 percent of that in 1989; by end-1992, the
market further contracted in real terms to about 20 percent and by end-1993 to
about 10 percent of its 1989 volume. The foreign exchange non-government credit
market in Romania initially took an even larger dip. In 1990, it contracted to
68 percent and, in 1991, to a mere 8 percent of its 1989 volume.  In 1992,
however, this market started to recover, due to the funds provided by
international development banks and to suppliers credit. By end-1993, the volume
increased to about 67 percent of that in 1989, and its share in the total credit
market  in Romania  increased to  15 percent.    In  terms  of demand/supply
characteristics and instruments, this market is very different from the one that
existed before and immediately after the revolution.
3.13        The transformation of banks into joint-stock companies brought more
conservative lending practices.   Due to high inflation,  the maturities of
available credits have shortened to well below two years, access to foreign
exchange is difficult and credit for capital investments involving imports is



- 18 -
practically not available (Annex 6).  The small and medium-size enterprises,
including export-oriented enterprises and the new private enterprises which have
grown to employ over 20 people, are most negatively affected by the lack of term-
finance. This is particularly problematic because the supply response from these
types of enterprises holds a potential for reversing Romania's current economic
decline.
3.14        Based on the MOI surveys, the investment demand of viable export-
oriented enterprises which operate in a competitive market environment totals
about US$0.5 billion annually. It originates in export sectors such as textiles,
garments and leather, wood, pulp and paper, building materials, light engineering
and chemicals industries.   Companies seek credit to improve international
competitiveness and profitability, to consolidate theit export positions, or to
facilitate privatization or joint ventures with foreign private investors. The
NAP estimates that the SME investment demand currently amounts to about US$150
million annually.   Neither estimate includes incremental permanent working
capital demand, which would increase the estimates by US$200 million and US$50
million, respectively.
3.15        The volume of the proposed Project's investment credit component was
determined based on intermediation capacity of t  financially viable part of the
Romanian banking sector, excluding the state-owned banks that were not
financially viable and the branches of foreign banks. The assumption that the
real growth of aggregate balance sheet size for such banks will be kept at about
20 percent annually, gives an estimated US$200 million incremental intermediation
capacity."1 The existence of a pipeline of viable projects was confirmed by
screening a number of investment proposals from various sectors,  including
textiles/leather, machine building, metallurgy, electronics and machine tools.
The reviewed investment proposals amount to approximately US$55 million, of which
about half are with IRRs of over 20 percent; these were presented by viable
enterprises with a proven record as successful exporters.
3.16        Working Capital Finance. Access to working capital finance is of key
importance for a successful supply response in Romania. As part of the tight
control mechanism, enterprises in the central planning system were typically
severely undercapitalized as compared to similar enterprises in a market economy.
The conversion process to commercial companies in Romania did not take care of
this problem, as the enterprises were not properly capitalized before they were
converted.  Furthermore, a large number of enterprises were participating in
barter arrangements with the CMEA, which lowered their working capital needs.
Once the CMEA disintegrated, working capital needed to be increased. Another
reason has been a significant devaluation of national currency, which required
a corresponding increase in working capital for enterprises which use imported
inputs and spare parts.   Increases in wages and prices of domestic inputs,
combined with the general lengthening of collection periods, have also required
an increase in working capital.
11/ However, this operation will remain within limits set by the Government's credit policy and is not
incremental in this respect.



- 19 -
3.17        Exacerbating increased working capital needs of the corporate sector
is the lack of capacity of the financial sector to deliver, in terms of volume,
timing and instruments. This has been reinforced by the NBR policy of credit
restraint introduced as a part of the stabilization program.   For initially
viable enterprises, the limited access to working capital often has been a reason
for the decline in capacity utilization and/or the loss of markets. For example,
a few enterprises in the textiles and garments sector, which are successful
exporters, operate at about 50 percent of capacity. Their effective capacity
utilization has been determined not by their opportunity to sell, but by their
access to working capital. The access to finance somewhat improved by 1993, and
the volume of short-term finance recovered, in real terms, to about 38 percent
of that in 1989. This was mostly due to the large spreads in the range of 20 to
30 percentage points which the banks considered adequate to accommcdate their
credit risk concerns.
3.18        The lack of working capital finance combined with uncertainties in
the terms of access to foreign exchange market and the ability to timely buy the
foreign exchange has been especially detrimental to exporters.   Unless an
exporter has his own source of foreign exchange, he would normally obtain a
foreign suppliers' credit, or a credit in domestic currency and then exchange lei
for convertible currency in the foreign exchange (FX) market. (Foreign exchange
credit markets and foreign exchange markets are analyzed in Annex 6). The FX
market supply was typically 8-15 percent of the demand in the 1991-1992 period
and about 2-5 percent of the demand in 1993, making access to foreign exchange
by particular exporters haphazard and dependent on the FX position of the
exporter's bank on any particular day.  Potential exporters who need foreign
exchange typically wait one to three months to satisfy their demand, hence they
are not able to transact if an export order entails strict delivery schedules.
3.19        The proposed Project's demand estimates for export finance were
derived based on the assumption that the export credit line under the Project
should be able to finance major categories of positive value-added Romanian
exports, taking 1993 as a base year.  This yields a demand estimate of about
US$630 million for export finance (Details are provided in Annex 4).   This
estimate was cross-checked by a detailed survey, by sectors and enterprises, of
export potential unrealized due to the lack of adequate foreign exchange
financing. The survey was conducted by the MOI in October 1992. Within sectors,
enterprises were screened based on profitability and export experience. For the
electronics, chemical/petrochemical, machine building and textile sectors, a
potential incremental export volume in 1993 was estimated at US$1.36 billion,
requiring an estimated US$443 million in foreign exchange financing.
IV. PROJECT RATIONALE
A. The Bank Group Strategy for Assistance
4.01        The reform strategy in Romania has been rather steady.   The
Government remains committed to moving decisively and coherently across a broad
front  to  sustain  the  reform  effort.    The  reform  priorities  include:
(a) macroeconomic stabilization as a prerequisite for the success of the reform
program; (b) accelerating the transformation of ownership; (c) rationalization



- 20 -
of productive sectors to make them efficient and ilternationally competitive; and
(d) providing social protection to the affected segments of the population.
4.02        In intensive dialogues over the past three years, the Government and
the Bank have found considerable agreement on the priorities for adjustment and
development. The Bank's medium-term country strategy comprises several strategic
themes as reference points for guiding the overall program in support of
Romania's reform effort. The Bank aims to: (a) facilitate and support Romania's
structural reform and its transformation to a market economy; (b) contribute to
financing its balance-of-payments requirements, and help establish its
creditworthiness; (c) support sectoral adjustment and development efforts; and
(d) help mobilize resources from both official and private sources. -
4.03        The centerpiece of the Bank's current operations in Romania has been
the SAL, which was approved in July 1992. The SAL program, along with the Fund
stand-by arrangement, provided a macroeconomic framework for the transition. It
supports stabilization efforts, including fiscal reform, price and trade
liberalization; introduces measures to further policy reforms of the enterprise
sector and to strengthen financial discipline; and aims to improve the
affordability and effectiveness of the social safety net. Continued support to
enterprise reform is critical for the success of the transition.   The Bank
intends to deliver this support through the proposed Project and the future
adjustment operations.
4.04        The proposed Project is fully consistent with the Bank's assistance
strategy for Romania and supports all its major elements. In the November 1991
to September 1992 period, the proposed Project was the main vehicle to assist the
Government to conceptualize and develop a regulatory, institutional and
procedural framework for privatization.   Table 4.1 summarizes policy-related
measures and the associated objectives which have been accomplished during
Project preparation. The intention was to ensure that the overall environment
is conducive to privatization and to the successful growth of the private sector.
4.05        Other related Bank projects include the Private Farmer and Enterprise
Support Project and the Employment and Social Services Project. The former aims
to stimulate transformation and development of the private agricultural sector
in Romania, including its distribution and food processing aspects, while the
latter aims to improve services associated with the social safety net, helping
to ease the exit of non-viable firms and accommodate workers' retrenchment.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.06        In the period since the revolution, the Government has successfully
established the legal and institutional framework necessary for a market economy.
The role of the state in both macro and microeconomic management has changed.
On the macro-level, the new policies have emphasized liberalization (e.g., price,
foreign trade, interest rates, entry and exit policies), decentralization and
competition (e.g., in banking, industry, agriculture), and market and private
sector orientation. At the micro level, the Government has already disengaged
from involvement in operational management of enterprises; it has commercialized
virtually all enterprises in trade and manufacturing sector and started to



- 21 -
enforce their financial discipline; and plans to fully divest its holdings in the
next seven years. Financial policies and entry to the banking sector and markets
have been liberalized, resulting in emergence of the new private institutions and
in changes of financial market structure and availability and quality of
financial services.
Table 4.1:   Policy-Related Measures and Objectives
Accomplished During Project Preparation
Macro Objective                       Measure                   sProjet Objective          Completed
Privatization
 Complete development of legal  * Finalize SOF by-laws and initiate  * Allocate decision making  * Aug. 92 1/
and institutional framework      staffing of the SOF                 responsibilities
* Finalize POF by-laws and complete                             * Sep. 92 1/
allocation of POF portfolios
I  Submit POF documents for                                     * Oct. 92 1/
registration
* Speed up privatization         * Start distribution of Certificates of    * Increase number of  * Sep. 92 2/
Ownership                          potential clients
* Finalize draft procedure for                                  * Dec. 92 /
privatization of small companies
* Decree on privatization of small                              * Jan. 93 4/
companies
* Adoption of 1993 privatization                                * Mar. 93 4/
program
Enterprise Reform
* Improve corporate guidance     * Amendment to Law 31, para 212     * Improve corporate guidance   * Nov. 92 2/
on Corporate Boards               and decision-making
* Submission to Parliament of Draft    * Improve bank appraisal  * Nov. 92 3/
law on Operations of Public        capacity
Accountants
* Submission to Parliament of      * Improve management         * Feb. 93 _/
Performance Based Management
Contracts Law
* Create enabling environment for    * Agreed SME loan guarantee
private sector development       program                            o Improve access to finance    * Nov. 92 g/
for SMEs
L, Onginally condition of Appramsal.
?/ Onginally condition of Negotdions.
2/ Onginally condfiton of Board Presention.
1/ Onginally conditon of Effcteness.



- 22 -
4.07        The Government has also recognized that export development and
integration of the Romanian economy into the international financial and goods
markets is a key to successful transition and to achieving a sustainable growth
path.   To this end, the Government has opened access to the trade sector;
liberalized foreign trade; unified and simplified the tariff regime; practically
removed exchange controls on current account transactions; and started to manage
the exchange rate through market-based mechanisms. However, a supply response
to the new incentives and opportunities has been slower than expected, mostly due
to the lack of managerial and technical skills in ministries, enterprises and
banks and to difficulties in access to finance.
4.08        At the macro level, the Bank has been involved in the transition
process in Romania from the very beginning.  At the micro level, it has two
p.:sible choices.  One is to wait until the restructuring and privatization of
the real sectors is completed and then provide investment resources.   The
transition, however, may take years to accomplish and the process may fail or be
significantly slowed because of the lack of skills and financial resources.
Another is to actively promote growth of the private sector and to support the
process of transition through policies and institution-building work and by
providing well calibrated financial assistance, through banks already operating
on sound financial and commercial principles, to competitive private enterprises.
The proposed Project elects the latter approach. It aims to address critical
needs which impair the supply response of the export sector and which can be
satisfied within the present system at minimum risks.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and ScoDe of the Proposed Project
5.01        In  line  with  the  country  assistance  strategy,  the principal
objectives of the proposed Project are to:  (a) promote growth of the private
sector and create conditions for an effective supply response from viable private
industrial enterprises; (b) advance structural transformation of the enterprise
sector in Romania, and specifically privatization and restructuring; and (c)
facilitate transformation of Romanian credit markets and introduction of safe and
sound banking practices. These objectives would be achieved by: (a) improving
access to foreign exchange credit for investment and export finance to viable
private enterprises; (b) assisting in the design of the necessary policies and
by strengthening the institutional framework for privatization and restructuring;
and (c) strengthening the capacity of participating banks to efficiently allocate
resources and to improve financial services tc the corporate sector.
5.02        The proposed Project would be supported by a US$175 million Bank
loan. The Loan would be used to provide:
(a)   Finance for creditworthy enterprises capable of assuming foreign
exchange risk, in two components:
(i)   Investment  Finance  for  private  enterprises  to  improve
international competitiveness and/or to expand exports; and



- 23 -
(ii) Exnort Finance to provide partial to full coverage of
exporters' preshipment finance needs for imported inputs; and
(b)   Technical Assistance to help in policy formulation and to strengthen
institutional  capacity  in  the  areas  of  privatization  and
restructuring, and for capacity-building in the banking sector.
5.03        The finance component, in the total amount of US$172.0 million of
Bank funds, will be divided into US$102 million for investment lending and
US$70.0 million for export finance.   The investment component will receive
additional cofinancing by the European Investment Bank, amounting to
ECU30 million. Proposed technical assistance of US$3.0 million would be provided
in the context of an integrated overall program, financed by the Government
budget and other multilateral (e.g., EC-PHARE, EBRD) and bilateral (e.g., USAID,
UK-Know-How-Fund) institutions.
B. Financing Component
5.04        The Investment Finance Comnonent would provide investment loans to
private enterprises, in the context of broader restructuring programs. Due to
the severe lack of foreign exchange financing in Romania, the investment finance
is targeted to most viable enterprises in the industrial sector aiming to improve
their international competitiveness, export capacity and profitability of
exports.  The availability of investment finance is also expected to address
concerns of foreign investors. It has been noted that many of them might be
willing to commit equity capital, but are discouraged by the lack of finance for
post-privatization restructuring.
5.05        The access to investment finance would be open to viable private
enterprises,12 which are capable of bearing the foreign exchange risk. A subloan
application would have to be presented in the context of the enterprise
restructuring program and business strategy. More specifically, eligibility of
enterprises and projects would be determined based upon:
(a)   economic and financial viability of a project, with financial and
economic rates of return of minimum 15 percent;
(b)   satisfactory financial condition of a prospective borrower and
capacity to bear the foreign exchange risk.  The latter will be
assessed by reviewing: (i) recent history of export performance;
(ii) future prospects including analysis of targeted markets and
estimated growth of exports and foreign exchange income; and
(iii) analysis of enterprise's international competitiveness;
12/ The term private refers to enterprises incorporated under Law 31, including wholly privately-owned
enterprises established by private entrepreneurs and enterprises originally in public ownership which have
been privatized under Law 58. If not majority privately-owned, enterprises will be required to present a
program for full privatization and the State Ownership Fund (SOP) should initiate actions expected to lead
to private ownership within one year after the subloan has been extended. The actions should commit the SOP
to divest its ownership if an investor can be found, such as placing the enterprise on a list of enterprises
offered for sale by the SOF.



- 24 -
(c)   presentation of a satisfactory business plan and restructuring
program clearly indicating: (i) measures which have been already
taken; (ii) intended areas of further improvements of enterprise
performance and efficiency; (iii) financing plan for elements not
covered under the subloan with adequate assurances from other
financing agencies; and (iv) if an enterprise is not wholly
privately owned, intentions for completing privatization; and
(d)   clearance by the Ministry of Environment concerning environmental
aspects.
5.06        The subloans will be denominated in US dollars  to match  the
prospective export revenues of subborrowers.   The interest rates would be
variable, based on US dollar prevailing six-months LIBOR plus a market-based
spread.   The proceeds of the sub-loans would be used to cover the foreign
currency cost associated with capital investments, including permanent working
capital needs, to improve quality, packaging or to address other product
deficiencies; to improve production cost structure; to address production
bottlenecks; or, when having a reasonable prospect to increase exports, to
increase capacity to produce exportable products.
5.07        The Export Finance ComRonent would address current problems of
inadequate access to export-related working capital finance, which especially
hurts private enterprises and less experienced exporters.   These are due to
balance-of-payment difficulties and imperfections in the foreign exchaxtge and the
foreign exchange credit markets (Both markets discussed in Annex 6). It will be
provided through a revolving fund to cover pre-shipment financing needs for the
imported inputs of Romanian exporters. With an expected average maturity of 120
days, the US$70.0 million financed by the Bank would revolve about three times
per year, yielding a US$210.0 million financing capacity.
5.08        The access to export finance will be open only to direct exporters.
Eligibility will be determined based on:
(a)   possession of an irrevocable letter of credit (LC) in convertible
currency issued by a creditworthy financial institution or a
confirmed purchase order issued in his favor by a respectable
foreign buyer;
(b)   exRort experience in products similar to the transaction for which
export finance is being sought; and
(c) positive value-added for the export product based on international
reference prices.
5.09        The  credit  to participating  financial  institutions  (PFIs)  to
refinance the subloans will be extended on a first-come first-served basis and
back-to-back with the PFI subloans to exporters.   The PFI subloans will be
denominated in US dollars with an average maturity of up to one year and at fixed
interest rates, with reference to US dollar LIBOR plus a market-based spread.
To further alleviate the banks' risk concerns, especially regarding new



- 25 -
inexperienced exporters from the private sector, a special export guarantees
program has been introduced by the EXIM Bank and is available to the sub-
borrowers.
5.10        In the longer term, the export finance may become unnecessary due to
the easing of foreign exchange constraints. The Bank and the Government will
jointly monitor the use of funds allocated to this component against developments
in the financial sector and assess the continuing need for export finance on an
annual basis.
C. Technical Assistance Component
5.11       The main objective of the TA component is to provide consulting
assistance and training for the design and implementation of an effective policy
and institutional framework for privatization and industrial restructuring, and
to strengthen the capacity of PFIs. The cost estimates of the proposed technical
assistance program are summarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1
Technical Assistance for Privatiation and Restructuring
l ________________________  (US  Thousand)                         l
l________________________  Project Funds   Other Related Funds1'    Total
Ministry of Industry         1,700            10,700      12,400
National Bank of Romania     1,300             5,000       6,300
TOTAL                   3,000            15,700   I   18,700
1/  Includes TA tunds for progfams and activres direcly retated to this Project by intemationai donors (EC-PHARE) and through
biiatea assistance (US-AD, UK-Know-How,  e GoenmenXt of Holland. Sweden. Switzenand. etc.).
5.12       The details of the technical assistance program are contained in
Annex 10. The Bank funds would be used as follows:
(a)  Ministry of Industry (MOI), for:  (i) sector studies and consulting
assistance for the development of sector restructuring and
privatization strategies; (ii) environmental consulting services for
MOI; and (iii) a study on industrial technology infrastructure;
(b)  National  Bank  of  Romania,  consulting  help  to  assist  in:
(i) implementation of a new Chart of Accounts for banks;
(ii) formulation of guidelines and training in risk management and
asset/liability management policies for commercial banks; and (iii)
establishment and strengthening of internal controls and auditing in
commercial banks; and
(c)  Participating  Financial  Institutions  (through  the  NBR)  for:
(i) strengthening PFI credit and risk management policies;
(ii) strengthening PFI appraisal capacity; and (iii) improving PFI
loan administration.



- 26 -
D. Project Cost and Financing Plan
5.13        An estimate of the total cost associated of proposed Project is shown
on Table 5.2.
Table 5.2
Estimated Total Project Cost
(US$ Milron)
7       ~Arnount|
Local      Foreign     Total 
Investment Component   55.0''      102.2       157.0l
Export Component      104.OyE      70.0        174.0
TAComponentt     ~~~0.0       3.0          3.0l
Total                 159.0        175.0       334.0
1/ Enterprises Funds and PFI Funds
_/ From Table 5.1
5.14        The Bank financing would cover US$175 million equivalent, or about
half of the total cost of the proposed Project. For the investment finance,
local financing would come from enterprises and the PFIs, or, to a lesser extent,
financing may be available from the State or Private Ownership Funds. For the
export finance, local financing may be raised from the banking sector or funded
by enterprises themselves. The financing plan developed with these assumptions
is presented in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Amount
Local    Foreign   Total
IBRD                                175.0     175.0
Enterprises                40.0       -        40.0
PFIs                      119.0       .       119.0
Total                     159.0  |  175.0    334.0



- 27 -
E. Environmental Impact
5.15       The  proposed  Project  has  been  classified  in  Category  B.
Environmental aspects would be addressed in the MOI and at the enterprise level.
A capacity to address environmental issues would be established in the MOI, in
order to be able to provide full cooperation on initiatives and programs of the
Ministry of Environment (MOE). The MOI has already established a Department of
the Environment; a consultant financed by the proposed Project would be assigned
to the Department to help in building institutional capacity for environmental
impact assessment, and to introduce specific measures to address identified
environmental issues.
5.16       With the Bank's help,  the Government has already developed a
comprehensive strategy for environmental protection and conservation.   The
Environmental Law, setting up standards comparable to those in EEC, has been
enacted. As required by that Law, an environmental impact analysis would have
to be prepared for each investment project; the analysis would be reviewed by the
MOI and cleared by the competent office of the Ministry of Environment.
Investment projects, which seek term finance from the Bank credit line, would be
required to present to PFIs the clearance of the Ministry of Environment
concerning the environmental impact of the proposed investment. The PFIs will
monitor compliance with environmental regulations in the course of normal
subproject supervision.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Loan Terms and Conditions
6.01        The proposed Loan of US$175 million will be made to the Government
through the Ministry of Finance (MOF) for a period of 20 years, including five
years of grace.   It will be a single currency loan (SCL) denominated in
US dollars at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for the US dollar
SCLs. 13 The Government will administer directly the technical assistance
component, but will onlend funds for export and investment finance to PFIs, which
will channel these resources to eligible borrowers.   Lending arrangements
include: (i) Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Government; (ii) Subsidiary
Financing Agreements between the MOF and the PFIs; and (iii) Subloan Agreements
between the MOF and the PFIs, back-to-back to Subloan Agreements between the PFIs
and final borrowers. The PFIs would be requested to sign a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement as a condition of participation in the proposed Project.14  The
13/ The participating banks are eligi0le for SCLs since they have a need for a US dollar loan to match
revenues from lending to their clients, who are expected to earn export revenues in US dollars. The SCL
terms will reduce the currency and interest rate risk that the HOF or the PFIs would have faced with
currency pool loan terms. The LIBOR basis of the SCL interest rate is appropriate for the export finance
component, but may introduce interest rate risk in the investment finance component for sub-borrowers, whose
revenues are not correlated to LIBOR movements.
14/ Signature by at least two PFIs is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Project.



- 28 -
Subsidiary Financing Agreement will include:  (a) an acceptance of financing
conditions by a PFI; (b) a commitment to follow agreed appraisal procedures and
eligibility criteria; (c) an agreement to establish or strengthen a technical
appraisal unit; (d) an agreement to establish a Credit Committee; (e) an
agreement to undertake external audits and to implement the auditor's
recommendations; and (f) an agreement to provide periodic reports on the
portfolio financed from Bank funds.   The Subloan Agreements will refer to
particular subprojects and must be in a form and content satisfactory to the
Bank.
6.02        The MOF subloans to PFIs ("subsidiary loans") will be extended on a
first-come first-served basis and back-to-back to the PFI subloans .to final
beneficiaries, with identical amounts, maturities and repayment schedules. The
subsidiary loans to PFIs will be made in US dollars at the prevailing LIBOR based
IBRD rate, plus MOF spread of 30 basis points. The MOF spread will cover the
real MOF cost, including administration cost, commitment fees, applicable
interest charges and other incidental expenses. The PFIs would onlend the funds
to eligible enterprises for eligible export transactions and investment projects.
The PFIs will assume the related credit risk. The subloans will be made in US
dollars, at interest rates priced on the basis of six-month LIBOR plus the MOF
margin and a market-based PFF spread. The subloans for export finance will be
extended at fixed rates; the term subloan will be extended at variable interest
rates. The beneficiaries will assume the foreign exchange risk and the interest
rate risk for the term lending. Subsidiary and subloans terms and spreads will
be reviewed by the Bank from time to time.
6.03        Investment Finance.  Maturities of subloans for investment finance
will range from three to 17 years, with grace periods from one to five years.
Grace periods and repayment schedules will be flexible to suit requirements of
individual projects and enterprises.   The maximum subloan size will be US$8
million.   Exceptions may be authorized on a case-by-case basis based on
significantly increased foreign exchange earning potential of particular project
and/or borrower. This maximum will be reviewed and may be adjusted from time to
time.
6.04        Repayments by the PFIs to the MOF will match the repayment schedules
of the borrowing enterprises. Should the final sub-borrower prepay all or part
of the subloan prior to maturity, the PFI should immediately prepay its
subsidiary loan to the MOF.   In case of arrears in principal or interest
repayment on any due date from a borrower, the PFI will nevertheless be liable
for payment to the MOF. The MOF will establish a rollover fund with resources
generated by repayments of all subloans under the proposed Project. Resources
from the rollover fund will be available to finance additional subprojects or to
service the Bank Loan.
6.05        Export Finance.  Subloans will be extended for up to US$5 million
with maturities of up to one year. Specific subloan amounts and maturities will
be determined based on particular export transactions and specific information
about the average time frame of a production cycle from receiving the confirmed
export order until payment. Exceptions on a case-by-case basis may be authorized
by the Bank. The maximum subloan amount will be reviewed and may be adjusted



- 29 -
from time to time. An exporter will be obliged to assign the export proceeds to
a PFI, and will receive only net proceeds. The PFI will be expected to repay,
i.e., replenish the export finance revolving fund, even if the export payment
does not materialize.
6.06        The following forms of financing will be available:   (a) export
credit to finance purchase of imported inputs; and additionally, from the
revolving export finance fund; (b) discounting of an irrevocable LC of an
exporter who has already financed an export transaction from his own sources,
providing that the reimbursement request is made within 180 days and that the
procurement procedures applicable under this proposed Project have been followed.
The financing may be used to cover expenses for imported inputs. The !IOF will
establish a revolving fund to hold the repayments under the export finance
components. The revolving fund will continue to provide, during the loan grace
period, transactions based on export finance under the same terms and conditions.
6.07        Free Limit.  Initially, a free limit for both types of finance will
not be established. The Bank will continue to review the subloans proposed by
each PFI until a PFI's appraisal capacity is deemed satisfactory. At this time,
a free limit for the particular PFI will be established. This free limit will
be PFI specific and may be adjusted from time to time.
6.08        Technical Assistance.   The Government plans to onlend funds for
technical assistance to executing government agencies. This will be accomplished
through interagency arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
B. Lending Arrangements
6.09        The Apex Arrangements.  The financing for both components would be
provided through an apex arrangement to allow open access of new PFIs. The apex
functions would include: (i) qualification and accreditation of the PFIs; (ii)
administration of the disbursements and collection (repayments) of funds advanced
to PFIs; and (iii) monitoring of PFIs to ensure their continued qualifications.
Initially, the Bank would retain the responsibility for qualification and
accreditation of the PFIs and for periodic evaluation of their eligibility. This
function would be discharged in close cooperation with the NBR. In particular,
in accordance with agreed criteria (Annex 5), the NBR would screen financial
institutions which have applied to participate in intermediation of the Bank
funds and to propose to the Bank financial institutions which are deemed capable
to qualify. As a part of the normal supervision process, the NBR will continue
to monitor the soundness of PFIs, including their capacity to appraise
subprojects, and inform the Bank of any deterioration of their financial and
operating conditions; and to ensure that the PFI subject their financial
statements to external auditing on a regular basis.
6.10        The Treasury Department in the MOF (TD/MOF) would have the primary
responsibility for operational functions, including: (i) providing subsidiary
loans to PFIs; (ii) for the investment finance, collection of funds from PFIs,
for the export finance, maintenance of the revolving fund facility; (iii)
repayment to the Bank; and (iv) reporting and monitoring the use of project



- 30 -
funds.'5 A unit having specific responsibility to administer the Bank Loan funds
will be established in the TD/MOF.16 The unit will be staffed with experienced,
adequately trained individuals. The monitoring and reporting would also require
a good accounting and management information system in order to track
disbursements and collections of funds and to provide the necessary reports in
accordance with Bank procedures (e.g., procurement, reporting).
6.11        Participating Banks.  The institutional objectives of the financing
component are to:   (a) encourage competition and provide enterprises with
alternatives regarding access to finance; (b) strengthen financial infrastructure
and the delivery system for export and investment finance; (c) reinforce the
development of new financing methods and instruments employed by the banking
sector; and (d) promote introductinn cf ..aFe and sound banking practices. It is,
therefore, desirable that several banks participate in intermediating both the
export and the investment finance subcomponents. The private banks have been
encouraged to participate as PFIs, in order to strengthen their competitiveness
and to spread the risk which would otherwise be confined to the public sector.
6.12        All banks operating in Romania are eligible to participate provided
that they meet the qualification criteria (Annex 5). The qualification criteria
include:
(a)   satisfactory  financial  position  and  capital  adequacy  meeting
international standards;
(b)   good standing with the NBR and satisfactory financial policies and
operating procedures, especially concerning loan classification and
provisioning and project appraisal;
(c)   satisfactory operational performance, especially concerning  past-
due and non-performing loans and collection ratios regarding total
loan portfolio and Bank's loan portfolio; and
(d)   satisfactory technical capacity to identify, appraise and supervise
utilization of the Bank funds and, for the export finance, to handle
international trade transactions and the related documentation.
6.13        The PFIs' responsibilities include:  (a) promotion and building of
the project piDeline; (b) subproject and borrower appraisal; (c) subloan
administration; (d) subproject performance supervision; and (e) periodic
reporting to the TD/MOF and the Bank. The PFIs would be required to establish
a technical unit, specialized in long-term project lending, properly staffed with
at least one industrial engineer, one financial analyst, and one economist, and
capable of meeting Bank standards on project appraisal and supervisionl". The
15/ Note that the apex will not be involved in credit decisions and/or in rationing credit among the PFIs.
16/ Establishment of this unit was a condition for Board presentation of the proposed Project.
17/ For export lending, the unit staff should include a financial analyst and an export finance specialist.



- 31 -
unit will perform the appraisal and supervise all subprojects financed by a PFI.
Appraisals should be cleared by the respective PFI Credit Committee. The PFIs
are also expected to introduce appropriate internal audits and controls.
6.14        Ten banks have applied for participation so far, of which eight were
prequalified by the NBR (Annex 3, Table A3.1). At the outset, a minimum of two
eligible PFIs would be sufficient to start project implementation.  The Bank
appraisal was based on two types of criteria: (i) level of capitalization and
capital adequacy, using international standards as qualification criteria; and
(ii) qualitative criteria showing that a bank has a satisfactory capacity to
intermediate Bank funds. The qualitative criteria included managerial structure
and quality of management, management information systems, appraisal prqcedures
and risk management (e.g., loan loss provisioning), internal control and auditing
systems, accumulated experience in banking operation, plans for external auditing
by qualified (foreign) auditors, corporate strategies and staff development and
training programs. For qualitative criteria, the minimum acceptable standards,
rather than standards for banks operating in developed market economies, were
used.   Annex 3 provides full details on the banks' financial position and
appraisal, and Table A3.2 summarizes the appraisal results of the proposed eight
banks.
Table 6.1: Participating Financial Institutions with Romanian Capital
(in billion lei, as of February 1994)
Qualfied                         Pending Qualification  l
TRSF"    ROB       TCB      OF8       EXIM     RC8
Ownership          Mixed    in pvatz.  Private  Pite      State    State
Capital              108       59        17       45        36       129
Total Assets       2Z445      812       278      447        74     2,681
Loan                 844      411       123      247        22     1,395
cust.Deposlts        162      256        43       92         0       450
%LoanCoverage        32        77        49       55       100       42
% CredtMaikePeretatton  16     8a        2         5                 26
Soure: N8R
6.15        Five banks have successfully passed the Bank's appraisal (Table 6.1.
Detailed assessments are provided in Annex 3). The Foreign Trade Bank (RBFT),
the Societe Generale (SGF), the Chemical Bank (CBF), the Romanian Development
Bank (RDB) and the Tiriac Commercial Bank (TCB), were found fully eligible for
participation. These banks cover about 22 percent of the Romanian total credit
market, and about 85 percent of the foreign exchange credit market. Another
three banks have substantially met the qualification criteria, but need to take
specific actions before they are accredited.



- 32 -
6.16         All banks are expected to further strengthen their appraisal and
project follow-up capacity and their internal controls and auditing procedures.
Technical assistance for this purpose will be provided even before the proposed
Loan becomes effective. For the export finance, technical assistance will be
financed by the Swiss Government and for the term-finance and loan administration
by the EC-PHARE.
6.17         Specific measures will also be taken to increase banks' capacity to
take and sustain financial risk, and to make sure that the reported financial
position  reflect the banks' business reality.   These measures, which  are
conditions of loan effectiveness, are summarized in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2: Conditions of Effectiveness
Macro Objective                 Condition               Project Objective
Banking Sector Reform
. Complete prudential regulations   . Issue NBR regulations on rsk-    . Facilitate supervision
based captal adequacy
. Increase banks capacity to  . Issue NBR regulations on asset
sustain risk                 classification and provisioning
. Improve capital adequacy   . Increase level of general loan loss  . Improve risk-taking
reserves                     capacity and capital
I  adequacy
6.18         Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance component will be
managed by the beneficiaries.  Most beneficiaries of the proposed Project have
already established Technical Assistance Coordination Units within their
respective External Relations Departments.18 These units have been operational
typically for about two years and have managed technical assistance by the Bank's
TA/Critical Imports Loan, by the EC-PHARE and the other donors. Before Board
presentation, the Bank would: (i) perform a final review of the organization and
staffing of the units; and (ii) organize procurement seminars for staff
responsible to manage technical assistance under the proposed Project.
6.19         The technical assistance to PFIs will help to improve their technical
capacity.  The TA would be managed by the NBR and will be available to all
Romanian banks with priority given to the PFIs. For the TA to improve appraisal
and loan administration capacity, consultants would be placed with the Romanian
Banking Association, including specialists for financial analysis and loan
administration, economic analysis, industrial process engineering, export finance
and procurement specialist. In addition, the PFI lending operations would be
18/ Satisfactory orsanization and staffing of the units is a condition for Board presentation of the
proposed Project.



- 33 -
closely supervised during the early stages. For the TA to improve portfolio risk
assessment and asset liability management and internal controls, the TA will be
placed with the Supervision Department of the NBR.
6.20        In addition, the market assessment and the quality of appraisals
would be enhanced by a set of detailed sector studies financed by or through the
Bank, and covering practically all sectors from which a viable demand is
expected.  Two of these studies have been completed (textiles, garments and
leather, financed by the Swiss Trust Fund; wood based industries, pulp and paper,
financed by the Swedish Trust Fund); another three will be completed by loan
effectiveness (fertilizer, cement and artificial fiber sectors, financed by the
Bank's TA/Critical Imports Loan); and two will be financed by the proposed
Project. Fifty nine other studies financed by EC-PHARE have also been completed.
C. Loan Administration
6.21        Procurement.  Procurement will be performed by final beneficiaries.
For items which cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, procurement will follow
normal commercial practices satisfactory to the Bank. Procurement of items which
cost US$100,000 equivalent or more will follow the Bank Procurement Guidelines
established for financial intermediary operations. For the investment finance,
items which cost US$100,000 to US$1 million equivalent would be procured through
international shopping on the basis of at least three competitive quotations
obtained from suppliers in two eligible countries; for items which cost more than
US$1 million equivalent, the limited international bidding procedure would be
followed. For the exDort finance, items which cost US$100,000 to US$3 million
equivalent would be procured through international shopping on the basis of at
least three competitive quotations obtained from suppliers in two eligible
countries; for items which cost more than US$3 million equivalent, the limited
international bidding procedure would be followed.
6.22        The PFIs will be required to maintain records of the procurement made
under the proposed Project, with summaries of offers received and awards made
under each subloan. These records would be used by external auditors in auditing
the PFIs' statement of expenditures. The first contract cleared by a PFI and all
contracts above US$1 million equivalent for the term finance and US$3 million for
export finance will be subject to prior review by the Bank; review of other
contracts will be on a sampling basis. The Bank will organize a procurement
seminar for the PFIs. In addition, foreign consulting assistance in procurement
matters would be made available to the PFIs.  From time to time, procurement
seminars will also be organized for the borrowing enterprises.
6.23        For consultants to be retained under the proposed Project,  the
implementing agencies would follow the Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. A nature of consulting services and costs of individual TA items
are specified in Annex 1.



- 34 -
6.24        Disbursement.    For the investment component, disbursements will
cover up to 100% of:   (i) foreign exchange expenditures (CIF) for directly
imported goods or ex-factory costs of locally produced goods, as well as up to
80 percent for other items procured locally; (ii) foreign exchange expenditures
for engineering, consultant services for the preparation of enterprise business
plans and restructuring or privatization programs, and computerization; and (iii)
foreign expenditures for technology transfer, licenses and other payments for
specialized technology and associated equipment of proprietary nature. For the
export finance component, disbursements will cover up to 100 percent of the CIF
cost of imported production inputs.  For the technical assistance component,
disbursements will cover up to 100% of: (i) foreign exchange expenditures (CIF)
for directly imported goods; (ii) foreign and local expenditures for consultant
services; and (iii) foreign exchange expenditures for training. Proceeds of the
proposed Loan may not be disbursed for payments of taxes and duties levied by the
Government.
6.25        Due a the great number of small disbursements expected under the
proposed Project, disbursements under US$1 million per item would be made against
a certified statement of expenditures (SOE), for which appropriate documentation
would be retained by the PFIs and the implementing agencies. Disbursements above
US$1 million per item would be made on the basis of full documentation.  The
Bank's reimbursement would be limited to expenditures made by final borrowers not
more than 180 days prior to the Bank's receipt of the request for reimbursement.
A disbursement seminar will be organized by the Bank to familiarize the PFIs and
the implementing agencies with the disbursement procedures.
6.26        Special Account.   Since the proposed Project would involve the
financing of many small items, a special account would be created in a mutually
agreed bank to facilitate disbursement. Most expenditures under the proposed
Project (which are approved by the PFIs and the TA implementing agencies,
respectively, and subsequently authorized by the Bank) would be met out of the
funds in the special account. When appropriate, special commitments or direct
payment to foreign suppliers may also be used.   The Bank would disburse an
initial amount of US$17.5 million (representing about four months of
disbursements) into the special account upon effectiveness of the Loan and would
periodically replenish the account on the basis of reimbursement requests.
6.27        Revolving Export Finance Fund.  For the export credit component, the
MOF would create an account in a bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, to hold the repayments of subsidiary loans by PFIs. Funds in the revolving
fund would be used to finance other export credit applications for the same
purposes and under the same terms and conditions as the original funds under the
export credit subcomponent.
6.28        Disbursement Schedule.  The estimated disbursement schedule for the
proposed Project is contained in Annex 7.  The expected disbursement of the
proposed Loan is based on ECA/MENA experience with similar operations, adjusted
for the expecteL impact of the export finance subcomponent.   The technical
assistance component is estimated to be fully committed in 12 months, and
disbursed in 24 months. The export finance component is expected to be fully
committed and disbursed in 18 months, beyond which the financing would continue



- 35 -
through the revolving fund mechanism. The investment component is expected to
be fully committed in 39 months and disbursed in 51 months.
6.29        The initial commitment cut-off date is on January 1, 1996.  At that
time, the Bank will review exchange and interest rate policies, foreign trade
policies and Project's implementation record. The performance criteria for a
satisfactory implementation record are: (a) at least US$26 million of project
funds committed; (b) at least US$20 million of project funds disbursed;
(c) projects and export transactions amounting to at least US$20 million in the
lending pipeline; and (d) at least two financial institutions still qualified and
participating in the project.   If, on the basis of this review,  the Bank
determines that the Project implementation record is satisfactory and that the
macroeconomic environment remains conducive to the attainment of the Project's
objectives, the final subloan commitment date will be extended to December 31,
1997. Otherwise, the Bank may choose, in cooperation with the Government, to
redesign or close the proposed Project.   The closing date for the loan is
December 31, 1998.
6.30        Reports and Audits.  The PFIs would submit semi-annual reports on
commitments, disbursements, collections and arrears under the proposed Project
to the Bank. In addition, the PFIs would maintain proper accounts for subloans,
including supporting procurement and disbursement documents, which would be
audited annually by external auditors acceptable to the Bank.   Since most
subloans would be disbursed on the basis of SOEs, the regular annual audit of the
PFI would have to include a special opinion on the adequacy of SOE procedures.
Audit reports have to be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the
close of a PFI financial year. These audits should include a certification that
the PFI is in compliance with the financial covenants agreed under the proposed
Project.
6.31        Under the technical assistance components, the implementing agencies
would prepare and submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank.  Accounts
specific to the project would be maintained separately and would be audited
annually by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports should be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of the agency's
financial year. In addition, the Government and TD/14OF will prepare a Project
Completion Report for the entire project six months after the completion of
disbursements, covering all related activities during project implementation and
describing the project's costs and benefits.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01        The proposed Project is an investment operation that would support
implementation of reforms for private sector development, restructuring and
privatization of state enterprises, and in the banking sector.  The proposed
Project will yield major benefits to Romania by: (a) promoting growth of viable
private enterprises; (b) creating conditions for effective supply response;
(c) increasing exports and improving competitiveness of Romanian exporters;



- 36 -
(d) improving the capacity of the financial sector to provide export finance
services and to appraise, finance and supervise investment projects; and
(e) assisting the Government to formulate and implement policies for furthering
privatization and restructuring.
7.02        The proposed Project would support competitive private enterprises.
It would directly assist in building healthy and efficient private financial
institutions, which would increase competition and contribute to financial market
integration. By helping PFIs to develop expertise in project lending, it would
promote more efficient investments.   The mechanisms developed and the technical
assistance put in place would facilitate continuing transformation of the
corporate sector.  In addition, it should lead to improvements in enterprise
management.
7.03        The proposed Project will have a positive environmental impacte
through the rehabilitation and restructuring of enterprises, including more
environmentally sound technologies and operations. The subloan covenants will
require that any facilities to be provided under the Project meet new
environmental standards.  The proposed Project is thus introducing a concept
which may lead to similar concerns by the PFIs in their future lending
operations.   In addition, the proposed Project aims to build institutional
capacity of the Ministry of Industry to deal with environmental issues.
B. Risks
7.04        The main risk of the proposed Project is a shortfall resulting from
general institutional weakness, including skill deficiencies of banks and
enterprise managements. This risk has been addressed by including technical
assistance for all participants in the Project covering the most important
aspects where skill deficiencies might jeopardize the Project's success. Close
supervision, beyond a level normally allocated for Bank projects, will also be
performed to contain this risk (Annex 8).
7.05        Volatility  and  uncertain prospects  can  adversely  affect  PFIs
willingness to diversify and/or to engage in long-term lending; a general
increase in non-performing assets would decrease the PFIs' capacity to take the
credit risk associated with the proposed Project. This risk is addressed through
increasing the capacity of PFIs to take and sustain financial risk, by
introducing mandatory asset classification and provisioning and by increasing
mandatory general loan loss reserves; through the technical assistance to PFIs
to better manage risks, off- and on-balance sheet, and by improving their
capacities to assess the credit risk associated with particular borrowers and
projects; through the TA to banks and through preparation of sector studies which
could be utilized in the project appraisal; by keeping the access open to
eligible PFIs; and by maintaining flexibility in terms of reallocation of
investment component funds to export finance, and vice-versa. The credit risk
of the PFIs and the foreign exchange risk of the final beneficiaries has been
decreased by extending a single currency loan rather than the Bank's standard
pooled loan.
7.06        Macroeconomic instability and deterioration of enterprise business
environment is a major risk. It may adversely affect investments and exports and



- 37 -
contribute to rapid deterioration of enterprise viability and the PFIs' financial
conditions and profitability.  This risk is addressed by the Bank's SAL, and
through on-going macroeconomic policy dialogue with the IMF and the Bank. In
addition, the macroeconomic environment and the progress-in-transition programs
and in project implementation will be thoroughly reviewed one year after loan
effectiveness, with an option to cut off further commitments in case of seriously
adverse developments or to redesign the proposed Project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01        During the negotiations,  final agreements with the Ministry of
Finance have been reached on the following:  (a) interest rate and on-lending
terms to PFIs (para. 6,02); (b) content and form of Subsidiary Credit Agreements
with PFIs (para. 6.01); (c) apex arrangements to be implemented by the MOF and
the NBR (para. 6.09); (d) content of the TA program and agreements for channeling
the TA funds (paras. 5.12 and 6.18); (e) establishment of special accounts on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.26); (f) a revolving fund
for export finance (para. 6.27); and (g) content of audit reports and that they
are prepared and furnished to the Bank in a timely manner (para. 6.30).
8.02        Regarding conditionalities,  the following agreements have been
reached:
(a)   Conditions  of  Effectiveness.      (a)    Subsidiary  Credit
Agreements signed by at least two PFIs; (b) NBR regulations
to increase general loan loss reserves issued; (c) NBR
regulations on asset classification and provisioning issued;
and (d) NBR regulations on risk-based capital adequacy issued;
(b)   Condition of Disbursement.  For the export finance component,
the MOF would establish a revolving fund for export finance,
satisfactory to the Bank, to revolve export credits during the
loan grace period; and
(c)   Condition Concerning Loan Commitment Period.   The initial
commitment cut-off date will be on January 1, 1996. At that
time, the Bank will perform a review (para. 6.29) and, if
satisfied, extend the loan commitment date to December 31,
1997.
8.03        The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a single
currency loan to the Government of Romania in the amount of US$175 million at a
Bank's standard variable interest rate for single currency loans for a period of
20 years, including five-year grace period, under terms and conditions outlined
in Chapter VI.



- 38 -
Page 1 of 4
R0O4ANIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Component Specifi.ation
1.           Skill deficiencies and the lack of institutional capacity are among
the main reasons for the slow start of Romania's transition, for the sluggish
progress of major transition programs, and for the persisting inefficiencies in
resource mobilization and allocation. The main objectives of the TA component
are: (i) to provide assistance for the design and implementation of an effective
policy   and   institutional   framework   for   privatization   and   industrial
restructuring; (ii) to develop capacity in the banking sector to effectively
manage its assets and liabilities and to appraise, price and manage financial
risks; and (iii) to improve export and investment lending and loan portfolio
management practices of participating banks. Table A1.1 summarizes TA to be
provided under  the proposed Project.   Following is a brief description of
specific TA components.   Detailed Terms of Reference are kept in the project
files.
Table A1l1: Technical Assistance Siumary
caCtPOy                    RECIPIENT  COST (US$   SERVICE    IXPECTED
___________  TOUSAND)  PROVIDERI/  START/END
(i) flestructurinR
* Sectorel Studies                            MDI/CC      700
Electrical Machinery                       MDI/CC      300        FirD     9/94-4/95
Electronics + Consumer goods               MOI/CC      400        Firm     9/94-4/95
Environmental Assistance                    "Di        150       Indiv.    1/95-1/96
Industrial Technology Infrastructure Study  M01        250        Firm     9/94-4/95
Industrial Policies and Sector Strategies   M01       6So      Indiv. /Firm  9/94-9/95
(ii) TA for the Banking Sector                 Banus      500
Implementation of Unified Chart of Accounts            150    Indiv. Firm  7/94-3/95
Assistence for Asset/Liability and risk Mgmt.          200       Indiv.    9/94-9/95
Assistance for Internal Control Systems                150    Indiv. /Firm  1/95-S/95
(iii) TA to PartiCiDating Financinc Institutions  FrI      800       Firm     5/94-9/95
Export Finance                                         150
Project Appraisal                                      350
Loan Administration                                    150
Procurement/Disbursement                               150
CC   -      Commercial Companies
MOt  -      Ministry of Industry
1/ FirA   - Consulting company by shortlisting.
Indiv, - Individual consultants; for amounts higher than 50,000. more than one individual in to be
retained. Consultants will be selected based on CVs of three qualified consultants.
PFI   - Participating Financial Institutions



- 39 -                              mm  JL
Page 2 of 4
2.          TA for ProJect Preparation.   The TA during project preparation
included restructuring studies for sectors from which major financing demands are
expected.  The studies have multiple purposes:   (i) to help the MOI  design
enterprise assistance programs to address issues common to most enterprises in
particular sectors; (ii) to help the KOI develop restructuring strategies; (iii)
to help SOF/POFs identify enterprises which could be privatized immediately; and
(iv) to provide the PFIs with sectoral context upon which to base project
appraisals.  Two such studies have been completed during preparation of the
proposed Project: the Wood Based Industries Study (including pulp and paper,
wood processing and furniture manufacturing) has been financed by the Swedish
Trust Fund and the Textiles, Garments and Leather Sector Study has been financed
by the Swiss Trust Fund.
A. Restructuring
3.          The TA program for restructuring, to be administered by the NOI,
amounts to US$1.7 million. Following is a brief description of the specific TA
components.
4.          Sector Studies.  In order to be able to design targeted programs. for
effective restructuring and rapid privatization, the Government plans to initiate
reviews of all major industrial branches. The studies program was developed
jointly with the MOI in December 1991 including about 80 industrial subsectors.
In addition to the two studies mentioned above, about 51 subsector or branch
studies financed by the EC-PHARE have been completed. Remaining studies to be
financed under the IDP are for sectors for which donor funding could not be found
including electrical machinery, electronics and consumer goods.
5.          The overall objective of the sector studies is to provide detailed
and up-to-date information on the institutional structure, competitive advantage,
weaknesses, and prospects of particular sectors within the context of a market
economy and world competition. With four major audiences, a sector study should:
(1) assist the Ministry of Industrv to develop a sector restructuring strategy
and identify assistance programs to support this strategy; (ii) assist government
agencieg to develop strategies for accelerated privatization in the sector, and
identify policy actions that may be required to help enterprises to prepare for
privatization; (iii) assist individual firms to better assess their current
operations, and identify viable development opportunities; and (iv) provide
information to domestic and foreign private investors and banks to determine
potential investment opportunities.
6.          More specifically, the studies will cover three broad areas:  (i) the
existing structure of the industry, including products, capacities, number of
companies, organization, historical profitability, investments, imports and
exports, value added, etc., including international comparisons where
appropriate; (ii) markets and marketing, and a review of local market potential
and of export market potential, including an assessment of global trends; (iii)
strategic direction, including identification of the industrial segments/products
that are currently competitive and strategies that will be required to maintain
and strengthen competitiveness; identification of the constraints that prevent



- 40 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
certain segments from attaining international competitiveness and appropriate
actions to deal with these constraints; and recommended strategies for sector
restructuring including, as necessary, downsizing of production capacities.
7.          Consulting assistance to the MOI to develop environmental assessment
aud recovery management capabilities. The Ministry of Environment is currently
responsible for the development of environment policies, standards and monitoring
procedures and assessment guidelines. The role of the Ministry of Industry is
to assist the enterprises in preparing environmental assessments and to achieve
compliance with national standards and environmental policies. The consultant
is expected to help the MOI develop the capacity to provide assistance to
enterprises in preparing environmental assessments, including a set of manuals
to be used by enterprises for environmental assessments, and to prepare specific
pilots which will demonstrate efficient methods to address environmental problems
in enterprises in specific sectors.
8.          The Industrial Technologv Infrastructure Study will assess the
existing situation and needs and propose the conceptual framework to develop
industrial technology infrastructure in Romania, including its regulatory and
institutional framework and development plan. This will specifically address
regulations concerning standards, patents, technology purchase and licensing and
other eleuents of regulatory and institutional framework concerning intellectual
property rights, quality control framework, and the related institutions; address
the future role of the 140 existing institutes in supporting the industrial
sector; propose the framework for strengthening the capacity for applied research
and industrial technology consulting; address financing aspects; and propose
measures to strengthen, refocus or downsize a number of institutes.
9.          Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Industry would include the
following TA items:  (i) advisors to the MOI to assist in the development of
industrial policies and specific sector restructuring strategies; and
(ii) computers and office automation equipment and training.
B. TA to Banks
10.         TA under the proposed Project would be needed to help the NBR and the
banks in Romania to operationalize and implement the new systemic framework,
especially prudential regulations, with the objective to improve safety and
soundness of Romanian banks. More specifically, assistance will be provided to:
(a)   assist in implementation of the unified Chart of Accounts for
banks, including development of the requisite accounting and
conversion manuals, staff training and assisting the banks in
converting their current system to the new chart of accounts;
(b)   assist in the development of guidelines and operational
policies and the requisite implementation manuals concerning
methods for assessment of and limits on the exposure to
various types of financial risks on- and off-balance sheet,



- 41 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
pricing of various risk elements and management of risk
(including methods for loan classification and levels of
provisioning) and staff training; asset/liability management
for commercial banks including specific techniques to manage
mismatches  of  asset/liabilities  portfolio,  advises  on
portfolio structure and instruments with various risk features
that could/should be introduced in Romania, etc.; and
(c)   assistance in the conceptualization, development of respective
manuals and technilues and implementation of a system of
internal audits and controls in commercial banks and the
requisite staff training.
11.               This assistance will be provided for a period of nine months.
Consultants will be situated in the NBR and will provide assistance to all banks
licensed and operating in Romania.
C. TA to Participating Financial Institutions
12.               Technical assistance to PFIs for the duration of about 12
months is also deemed necessary to strengthen their capacity to appraise credits
for export and investment finance, to administer the credit lines and to develop
loan supervision capacity. Specifically, TA will be available to assist a PFI
to start operations, to help internali--e operating procedures and to develop
monitoring and reporting systems, to prvvide on-the-job training for staff, and
to assist in initial appraisal and lo- supervision for subloans extended under
the proposed Project.
13.               This assistance would be managed by a steering committee
including a representative of the NBR and of all PFIs.  It would be provided
under the auspices of the Banking Association and will be physically located in
the NBR. Priority will be given to participating banks, but access to TA will
be open to other banks.  Experienced foreign consultants with the following
profiles would be financed: (i) financial analysis and loan administration; (ii)
economic analysis; (iii) industrial process engineering; (iv) export finance; and
(v) procurement specialization.



- 42-                                ANNEX2
Page 1 of 9
RQMANIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking Sector
1.          Reform of the banking system was initiated early in the process of
transformation to a market economy. Entry to the banking sector was liberalized
in mid-1990.  The two-tier banking system was established by late 1990, and
formally legislated in April 1991 with a passage of the Law on Banking Activity
and the Law Concerning the Status of the National Bank of Romania (NBR). The
Banking Law endows commercial banks with universal banking powers, and the NBR
is given a high degree of formal independence.
2.          The dominant institutions in the sector are banks inherited from the
central planning system: the Bank for Agriculture (BA), the Romanian Development
Bank (RDB), the Savings Bank (CEC), and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade
(RBFT). While still in state ownership, these banks are incorporated as joint-
stock commercial companies and enjoy a universal banking license. By the end of
1990, a number of private banks was established, including the Bank for Small
Industry and Private Initiative (MIND), the Cooperative Credit Bank (CCB) and the
Ion Tiriac Bank for Commerce (TCB). The new regulatory framework provided for
liberalized entry of new foreign or mixed-ownership banks, and removed limits on
the types of customers and financial services that could be offered by foreign
banks. This group currently includes the Chemical Bank (CBF), the Societe
Generale (SGF), the Frankfurt-Bucharest and the MISR Bank. There were also new
entries by banks in state ownership, including the Romanian Commercial Bank
(RCB), which was formed in late 1990 by carving out the commercial portfolio from
the balance sheet of the NBR; the Export-Import Bank of Romania (EXIM), which was
established in 1991 to strengthen financial services to the foreign trade-
oriented industrial and services sectors; and the Bank Post, S.A. By late 1991
the private bank Dacia Felix (DFB, based in Cluj) and the Banca Creditului
Romanesc S.A. (Credit Bank) were created. The Romanian commercial banking sector
now comprises six state-owned banks, six private banks (with Romanian capital and
joint ventures) and the, Bucharest branches of four foreign banks. Another seven
private banks are in the first phase of the registration process,1 and one has
applied for registration.
I/    Since mid-1992. banking licenses are issued in two steps. The first step allows the banJk to
reSister std start preparing itself to open for busineses. After an NBR review and satisfactory
findings conicorning readiness of the prospective bank, an operating license allowing the bank to
open for business is issued. Sevn banks reoeived the first-stage licence in the October 1992 to
October 1993 period including: Bancs Rt aneasca, Banca Cteditul Comnercial Roman (CREDCOI), Banc&
de Credit Consurcial si Industrial., Banca de Credit si Detvaltare (RQ4EXTSRA), Banca
IntercoufesionaLa Raena, Santa Roman a Patronotulut Privet (PATRWBARK) and Buchaxest Bank.



- 43 -                                 ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
3.          The structure of the commercial banks' balance sheets is shown in
Table A2.1. The main characteristics of the Romanian banking sector are:
Table A2.1: Structure of the Commercial Banks Balance Sheets
PercentaMe of Total Assets            Percentage Chargesl/
Dec 1993/    Dec 1992/
Assets                   Dec 91                                 Dcc Pec93  DSc1992  Dec 1991
Foreign Assets            4.6       7.7         12.9            +343.9 2/    +184 /
Cash                      0.8       12          0.7             +154.7       +183
Non-Govt. Credit         60.1      492          47.8            +255.7       +39
Govt. Credit              5.4       5.1         3.9             +201.0       +60
Interbank Asets          21A        252         22.5            +2223        +106
Other Assetl/             7.7       11.0        12.1            +298.3       + 151
Liabilities
Foreign Liabilities       6.0       5.5        7.0              +296.6       +55
Clients Deposits         39.7      36.0        33.8             +240.1       +63
Loans from NBR            17.0      9.0        153              +435.6       - 10
Interbank Loans          12.6      24.6        11.8             +191.9       +42
Equity                    3.0       7.8         4.8             +190.3      +337
ii   Other asseu include non-peformg assets covetd by Dedsion 447/1991 and LAw 7/1992.
2/   Inaease also reflects depredation of leL In 1991, the vohime actually declned by 2% in US dollars tams; in 1992, it
increased by 17 % in US dollar terms; in 1993, thfe volume increased by about 6% in US dollar tenns.
l/   Changes in nominal values Annual inflation in 1991 was 279%, in 1992 - 200%, and in 1993 - 280%.
VerX higb market concentration.  At end-1990, over 93 percent of the
banking sector non-government credit was concentrated in four
government-owned banks (BA, RDB, RCB and RPFT), and about 40 percent
of the total deposits in the Savings Bank. By end-1993, the share
of the largest four banks in the credit market stood at 87 percent;
on the deposit side, their total share (including the Savings Bank)
stood at 50 percent.
Weak funding base and dependence on NBR refinancing and interbank
liabilities. In 1990, the NBR and interbank financing accounted for
about 45 percent of the total domestic liabilities (of which about
80 percent is NBR refinancing); own deposits (excluding the CEC)
accounted for 18 percent of the total domestic liabilities; and the
ratio of own funding to the total non-government lending was about
27 percent. The situation has substantially improved in the 1991-
1992 period.  By end-1992, the interbank financing accounted for
only 26 percent of the total domestic liabilities (of which about 48
percent is NBR refinancing); own deposits accounted for 28 percent
of the total domestic liabilities and the ratio of own funding to



- 44 -
Page 3 of 9
the non-government lending improved to about 55 percent. There was
also a modest improvement in 1993; by end-1993, own deposits
accounted for about 30 percent of domestic liabilities, and loan
coverage increased to about 58 percent.
Unsophisticated structure of instruments and poor quality of the
loan portfolio of state-owned banks, including heavy concentration
by sectors and enterprises. Some of the commercial banks started
their operations with exposures to a single borrower higher than
their equity capital. The heavy portfolio concentration in specific
sectors (e.g., BA in agriculture, RDB in manufacturing) coupled with
the dominant position of these banks in their respective credit
markets, has also created an effective sector-bound segmentation of
credit markets in Romania.
High_ jnstitutional growth.  About 25 new licenses have been issued
since the entry was liberalized and 17 new banks have opened for
business.   However, the highest growth in absolute terms was
witnessed with the largest state-owned banks.   In the 1990-1992
period the RCB staff increased from 3,000 to 9,200 employees and the
number of branches from 110 to 221; the RDB increased employment
from 2,000 to 3,600 and the number of branches from 49 to 170.
Strong contraction in real terms.   The growth of the commercial
banks' balance sheet was high in nominal terms; in real terms,
however, the size of the balance sheet substantially contracted in
the 1990-1993 period. Total assets of commercial banks rose by 114
percent in 1991, by another 75 percent in 1992, and by 256 percent
in 1993; in real terms, however, the total assets at end-1992 were
about 85 percent, and at end-1993 about 72 percent of that at end-
1990. Non-government credit volume in nominal terms doubled in
1991, grew another 40 percent in 1992, and 256 percent in 1993; in
real terms, the end-1992 volume was 64 percent and at the end-1993
volume about 54 percent of its end-1990 level. Medium- and long-
term credit volume increased by 71 percent in nominal terms in the
1990-1993 period; in real terms, at end-1993, it was about 13
percent of that at end-1990.
Financial Position and Profitability. In the course of 1992, the
profitability of Romanian banks has substantially increased, mostly
due to the very large spreads (e.g., at end-1992, deposit rates
stood in the 13.5-65 percent range, and lending rates in the 33-96
percent range), lower tax levels, and growth of the off-balance
sheet services and the related commissions. The portfolio risk of
all private banks and a number of smaller state-owned banks has
generally decreased, including maturity mismatches of assets and
liabilities and interest rate risk exposure, foreign exchange risk
exposure,  and credit risk exposure.   The latter is due to a
combination of factors including conservative credit policies, more



- 45 -                              ANNEX_g
Page 4 of 9
careful clients and project appraisals and sign ,icantly shorter
average maturities. General improvement of the financial positions
of a certain class of corporate clients has also played a role.
The financial condition of the largest state-owned banks, however,
has remained precarious.   With a weak funding base, they almost
completely rely on the CEC and the NBR refinancing, and continue to
engage in adverse selection.
Increasing Private Sector ParticiRation and Improved Capitalization.
As of end-1991, private capital in the banking sector accounted for
about 6.4 percent of the total capital. The newly created EXIM Bank
brought to the system about three time more than the total private
capital committed in the 1990-1991 period.   In 1992, the private
capital increased to about 22 percent and, in 1993, to 28 percent of
the total capital.
At end-1990, equity capital in the Romanian banking sector was about
two percent of the total liabilities. Low capitalization was mostly
confined  to  state-owned  commercial  banks.         In  1991,  the
capitalization of the banking system increased to about three
percent, due to the occasional recapitalization of the state-owned
banks and to the new capital brought by the new entrants. By end-
1992, the capitalization of the banking system increase- to about
eight percent due to the strong contraction of the banks' aggregate
balance sheet in real terms.   At end-1993,  capitalization has
declined to about six percent; while the new capital committed in
1993 greatly surpassed the volume committed in 1992, an aggressive
growth of the banking sector asset portfolio has brought the overall
deterioration of capital adequacy.  However, the private and the
smaller state-owned banks have kept their risk based capital
adequacy ratios at eight percent or more, and the deterioration has
been mostly the result of the significant worsening of the financial
position of the two largest state-owned banks which account for
about 40 percent of the total capital in the banking system.
Policy Environment
4.          A monetary control framework based on the two-tier banking system was
established quite early in the 1990 banking reform.   The NBR has gradually
introduced reserve requirements, limits on re-financing credit and re-financing
rates as instruments for monetary control. Given that the financial markets were
underdeveloped and that neither banks nor enterprises were fully responding to
market signals, there were limits to the effectiveness of these indirect
instruments. Minimum reserve requirements were introduced in January 1992, but
the instrument has not been used as a tool for controlling liquidity on an on-
going basis. The NBR capacity for monetary programming has been and is still
limited, partly due to the lack of capacity in the NBR and partly due to the lack



- 46 -                                ANNE  2
Page 5 of 9
of precision and the difficulties with consolidation of branch accounts of large
banks.
S.            In the course of 1991, the NBR continued use of global credit
ceilings. The global ceilings were translated into guidelines for individual
banks, thus inhibiting emerging competition in the credit markets. Moreover,
direct credit controls could have been a major stimulant to the increase in
inter-enterprise lending, both voluntary and involuntary. During 1992, the NBR
started to rely more on its refinancing operations to control the evolution of
the monetary base by using three types of refinancing facilities:   lines of
credit, including regular credits (two week maturity at NBR reference rate),
special credits (medium to long term with interest rates below the reference
rate), and auction credits (short term with a rate determined by bidding and each
bank having a pre-assigned bidding amount). By end-1992, the share of special
credit lines in the total NBR refinancing operations rose to 79 percent and by
end-April 1993 to 96 percent, thereby rendering the auction mechanism inoperative
and the NBR getting close to loosing its capacity to effectively influence the
monetary aggregates.  In October 1993, the NBR initiated a major restructuring
and repricing of its refinancing facilities aiming to regain monetary control and
to influence adjustment of interest rate levels to posicive real terms. By end-
1993, against the background of increasing refinancing rates which became
comparable to the level of inflation, the NBR refinancing facilities included
about 35 percent in regular credit lines, 20 percent as preferential credits, 34
percent as auctioned credit, and 11 percent as overdraft facilities.
6.          The interest rate liberalization was ir.troduced in 1991, but with
mixed effects. Interest rates on deposits remained depressed, partly due to the
Savings Bank business policies and its extremely high concentration in the
deposit markets. Another significant factor was low-interest government deposits
with commercial banks, which were due to the large operating surpluses of extra
budgetary funds; at end-1992, these amounted to about L240 billion or about 17
percent of commercial banks' total liabilities. At end-1991, the average deposit
rates stood in the 6-14 percent range; at end-1992, the cost of deposits
increased to the 13.5-65 percent range with government deposits covering the low
end of the spectrum.
7.          The increase in refinancing rates of the NBR, from an average nominal
interest rate of about 49 percent in July to about 120 percent in December 1993,
has been followed by the substantial increase of deposit ratds in the banking
system. By January 1994, the level of deposit interest rates was in the 60-110
percent range.  The lending rates have followed a similar path, from the 50-85
percent range in July to the 75-130 percent range at end-1993.  In 1994, the
interest rates on loans have, for the first time in recent Romanian economic
history, reached positive real levels.
Recent Banking Sector DeveloRments
8.          The  mid-1993  to  end-March  1994  period  was  characterized  by
deterioration of the banks' financial positions triggered by the withdrawal of



- 47-                                ANEL.
Page 6 of 9
government deposits in July 1993, followed by a substantial increase in the cost
of NBR refinancing and the cost of funding in general.   The withdrawal of
government deposits (at 10 percent annual interest rate) was initially fully
compensated by tha increased volume of NBR refinancing (from about Lei 235
billion average in June to Lei 767 million by August 1993) delivered through
regular ("current") credit lines at the NBR reference rate of 70 percent
(compounded rate of about 97 percent); the NBR auction and overdraft facilities
have practically rtot been used until September 1993. In October, however, the
NBR moved  Lo restructure  the composition and to reprice  its  refinancing
facilities.   Regular credit lines were partly replaced by auctions  (from
practically zero volume in August to Let 396 billion in October and Lei 642
billion in December 1993) with the respective nominal rates increase from about
84 percent to over 150 percent in the October-December 1993 period, and overdraft
facilities (from practically zero to Lei 352 billion in October and Lei 187
million in December 1993) with respective nominal rates increase from about 106
percent to 250 percent.  In real terms (i.e., compounded rate), the rates in
January 1994 were as high as 540 percent for auction refinancing and 870 percent
for overdrafts.  The average cost of the NBR refinance (including very low cost
preferential credit lines) increased from about nominal 49 percent (APR 56
percent) in June 1993 to 137 percent (APR 362 percent) in January 1994.
9.          Consequently, competition has promptly developed in the deposit
markets. The nominal rates on sight deposits increased from about 30 percent in
June 1993 to 45 percent in January 1994 (and as high as 85 percent for certain
banks with generally low deposit base) and from the 30-50 percent to 60-110
percent range, respectively, for term deposits. Most affected were, of course,
banks who did not manage to develop their own funding base in the 1990-1993
period (notably BA and RCB) and private banks whose asset portfolio size grew
well ahead of their own funding (notably Dacia Felix). The positive effects of
these developments were the declining dominance of CEC in the deposit markets
and an increase of domestic deposits (by about 72 percent in the July 1993 to
February 1994 period), but the increase in the stock of deposits still remained
below the level of inflation. In response to the higher funding cost, lending
rates have also increased to 110-130 percent nominal rates (i.e., compound rates
in the 180-240 percent range).  This has brought an increased systemic risk,
reflected in an increased level of losses; in the July 1993-February 1994 period,
overdue credits increased by 2.3 times for domestic currency borrowing and about
4 times for foreign currency credits.
10.         The  dynamics  of portfolio  adjustments  of Romanian banks was
determined by inh.ent rigidities in the asset portfolio's structure by the level
of viable domestic demand and by the size and ownership structure of particular
banks. The three largest state-owned banks (RCB, RBFT and BA) continued their
operations with little or no adjustment; this was essentially supported by
allowing privileged access to the NBR regular credit lines (the three accounted
for 99 percent of the total volume) priced at nominal 70 percent rates; exclusive
access to preferential credit at 10-70 percent nominal rate (100 percent of the
total volume); and access to NBR auctions (typically 100 percent of the total
volume, with an exception of the Dacia Felix, who occasionally participated,



- 48 -                               ANNEX-2
Page 7 of 9
accounting for 5-8 percent of total auctioned an.ount). In effect, by end-1993
the reliance of the banking system on the NBR refinancing facilities again
increased to over 50 percent of the total liabilities; by February 1994, the
volume of the NBR refinancing was roughly twice as big as the total household and
commercial sector deposits.
II.         Against the background of increasing funding cost and uncertain
funding perspectives, the adjustment of the private banking sector and the RDB
was much more dynamic. Banks have kept the nominal volume of lending at about
the July 1993 level (i.e., contraction for more than 50 percent in real terms)
mostly due to the lack of viable demand at the level of nominal lending rates
beyond 130 percent. Profit margins were also squeezed compared to their 1992 to
mid-1993 levels, and banks were attempting to increase profits by increasing the
frequency of loan service payments. Uncertainty has also been reflected in the
significant shortening of maturities, from about three months average in mid-
1993, to less than two month average in March 1994.  In the 1992 to mid-1993
period, the average maturity of domestic credits was about 3 months which
corresponded to an average business cycle. Now, maturities of two months or less
do not cover an average business cycle, and working capital finance is
practically not available in Romania. Banks have, however, quickly realized the
gravity of this situation and are in the process of addressing it through capital
increase (50-200 percent increase has been announced by the DFB, Tiriac, RDB,
Bank Post, Bank Coop and RDB). The new capital will typically be paid in foreign
exchange and involves foreign investors. By significantly increasing equity, a
bank promptly decreases its funding needs; the higher capital base will also
allow somewhat longer maturities, and the bank would be better able to keep
interest rates at levels attractive to its clients.
Banking Environment
12.         State-owned enterprises (often monopolies) are not accustomed and/or
compelled to respond to market signals, and they either pass on the cost of
financing or do not pay. Repeated debt forgiveness may have created a moral
hazard problem, in that the beneficiaries of these schemes (i.e., the delinquent
enterprises and the three largest state-owned commercial banks) may now expect
the Government to continue this practice in the future. On the other hand, banks
have not been in a position to increase their capacity to take and sustain risk
other than through capital increase. The case in point is profit taxation, where
the profit taxes are levied on nominal profits, rather than on profits adjusted
for inflation, which leads to continuous erosion of capital. At the same time,
mandatory loan loss reserves are low, and banks are not encouraged to provision,
in that provisions and loss reserves are not considered to be a part of the
banks' operating costs beyond the tax-deductible general provisions of 0.5
percdnt of the total loan portfolio.  The proposed Project will address this
issue through conditionalities for loan effectiveness: the NBR will introduce
mandatory asset classification and provisioning according to internationally
accepted standards, and general loan loss reserves will be increased to two
percent.



- 49 -                               ANNIEX 2
Page 8 of 9
13.         The credit appraisal, however, is likely to remain difficult.  In
addition to the still limited capacity of financial institutions to identify and
correctly price the credit risk, there are also systemic problems. Romania lacks
stable institutions and the track record of political cohesion necessary to
design and consistently implement the macroeconomic policy and institutional
reforms. The rules of the game have not yet been fully established, and a level
playing field for all economic agents has not been fully implemented.   This
creates problems in appraising and pricing credit risk, especially concerning
non-negotiable financial instruments with longer maturities.
Prudential Regulations and Supervision
14.         The NBR is aware of the serious implications of the currently
difficult business environment for the safety and soundness of the banking
sector. The Supervision Department of the NBR has been established immediately
after the new regulatory framework was enacted. The Department comprises three
divisions and now employs about 25 staff. Since mid-1992, a comprehensive set
of prudential regulations has been enacted, including:
-     new two-step licensing regulations with increased minimum required
capital;
-     loan  exposure  limits  and portfolio  exposure  limits  including
exposure to a single borrower and affiliated groups, regional and
sector concentration limits, foreign currency exposure limits, and
contingent liabilities exposure rules;
-     ownership and management/board qualifications;
prohibited business and regulations concerning diversification; and
-     insider lending and connected lending.
The issuance of prudential regulations concerning the definition of capital,
capital adequacy and loan classification and provisioning, which are comparable
to international standards, are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Loan.
15.         Most importantly, the NBR has started to exercise its supervisory
authority, including off- and on-site supervision.  In 1993, the NBR revoked the
foreign exchange operations license of one bank; fined another bank for breach
of regulations; and suspended a general manager of a third bank because of
mismanagement of the bank's risks. The banking system appears to be reacting in
a positive way. The NBR reports notable improvements in attentiveness of banks
to supervisory initiatives from the NBR.
16.         However, there are other areas that still need to be addressed.
First, there is currently no mechanism to protect deoositors of the private or
mixed banks. For the state-owned banks, the protection is provided only
implicitly, except in the case of the state-owned Savings Bank (CEC). In the



- 50 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
event of liquidation, individual depositors are to be reimbursed to the extent
possible, given the state of the bank's assets. Second is grovth management.
The Romanian banking sector is growing very rapidly, in terms of number of
transactions, number of clients and branching. The negative aspect of the high
growth environment is the danger of over-extension. At least three institutions
are known to have seriously jeopardized their financial positions due to their
failure  to  diligently manage  growth.    Third,  according  to the  current
regulations, there are few limits to business diversification, and banks can
engage in certain types of capital market activities.2 So far, banks' activities
have included the intermediation in the placement of securities in the process
of privatization and the equity investments. Banks' engagement in the securities
and equities business implies potentially large contingent exposures whicb must
be subject to regulation and prudential supervision. However, this has so far
received little attention by the NBR.
I/ This is an approach followed by san EEC cout.rie (e.g. zaa='). but with corrs.poadis prudanti*L
regulations and supervision.



- 51 -                         ANNE  3
Page 1 of 15
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Participating Banks
1.          The proposed Project has generated a very strong interest for
participation by Romanian banks. The qualification summary is provided in Table
A3.1. Ten banks have applied for participation, of which siX were able to meet
qualification criteria, two were asked to take additional measures to be able to
qualify and two were rejected.   New applicants will be invited before the
proposed Loan becomes effective and the application process will remain open
until the funds are coomitted.
Table A3.1: Qualification Sumary
Fing
Bank          Ownesip         Apisa 1/   ApaisaL 2f  Commenets
RBFr             State 3J      Yes             Yes
RCB              State          Yes            No        To be reppried
llnac Bank       Private        Yes            Yes       Qualified in August 1993
RBD              State          Yes            Yes       Qualified in July 1993
Dacia Felix      Mied          Yes             Yes       To be reappraised
Credit Bank      Mixed          No
Bank Post        State          No
EXIM             State /       Yes             No        To be re-sed
Chemical Bank    Forign         Yes            Yes
Societe Generale  Forein        Yes            Yes
/Results of the NB apprasa
/ Participadon in the proposed Project
3/ Intheprocessofprvatizaonorsootoobepuivatled
2.          The appraisal was based on the level of capitalization and capital
adequacy, using international standards as qualification criteria, and on
qualitative criteria. The following qualitative aspects were studied:
-     quality of management, managerial structure and human resources;
-     risk management - identification of risks, credit appraisal and
monitoring procedures, loan loss provisions, funding structure;
-     information systems - data bases, computerization level and quality
of management information systems;
-     internal control and auditing systems;



- 52 -                                       ANX 3
Page 2 of 15
business strategy and future growth/diversification plans;
plans for external auditing (by international auditing firms) in the
near future); and
-       in  the  case  of  the  two private  banks,  their accumulated experience
in banking business and operations.
Annex 5 provides a detailed description of the qualification process and
criteria.
Table A3.2: Summary of Banks Appraisals
ROMANIAN
BANK FOR     ROMUNIAN       RCHARIAN                     ION TrRIAC    DACIA
FOREIGN      COFMERCIAL    BANK                          COtMMERCIAL    FELIX    CHEMICAL       SOCIETE
CRILERIA                   TRADE        _a             FCR DEYL       EX IBANX     _ ANK LUN                , BADM        GElnMIU
Capital adequacy           Yes            No (4)         Yes           Yes           Yes           yes       Yes (2)       Yes (2)
sufficient?
Fin. performance           Yes            No             Yes           Yes (1)       Yes           Yes       Yes          Yes
satxsfactory during
last two years?
-Financial policies         Yes            Yes            Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes      Yes           Yes
meet min. standards?j/
-Satisfactory loan          Yes            Yes (7)        Yes           No            Yes          developing (3)          (3)
classification and
provisioning?6/
-Standard credit            Yes            Yes            Yes           developing   Yes           Yes        Yes          Yes
appraisal policies?
-Skills sufficient          Yes            Yes            Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes      Yes           Yes
for export finance?
-Good standing with         Yes            Yes            Yes           Yes           Yes (9)      Yes (9)  Yes            Yes
-External audits            Yes            Yes            Yes           Yes (8)       Yes           Yes (6)  N/A           N/A
Note:    (1)  Less than two years of activity.
(2) Branch of a foreign bank, with risk fully assumed by the headquarters.
(3) Loan classification and provisioning as required by the headquarter supervisory authorities.
(4) Final decision pending full review and classification of asset portfolio.
(5) Standards reflecting commercial practices of the Romanian environment.
(6) To be introduced by the NBR by end-1993. Currently not mandated by prudential regulations.
(7) No systematic loan classification.
(8) First external audit to be done at end 1993.
(9) Except lending to connected parties which is being addressed.
3.               For  the  financial  performance,   the  appraisal  has  also   included
assessment of volatility of the financial condition of a bank, its risk profile
and flexibility inherent in the structure of its balance sheet.   For the
qualitative criteria, minimum acceptable standards, rather than standards for
banks operating in developed market economies, have been used. The quality of



- 53 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 15
management has been given major importance at appraisal.   Specific concerns
included management appreciation of risks in the current business environment and
of  financial  market  conditions,   existence  of  a  coherent  growth  and
diversification program, and management understanding of bank's major
deficiencies and existence of plans to address them. Staff skills and relevant
experience were also appraised. However, because of the developmental role of
the proposed Project, willingness to develop such skills, if currently less than
satisfactory, was also acceptable for participation. Staff training and massive
technical assistance would be provided under the proposed Project to build the
skill capacity to the fully satisfactory level. A summary of bank appraisals is
provided in Table A3.2.
Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade (RBFT)
4.          The RBFT was established during central planning as a specialized
bank with a monopoly over the conduct of all foreign exchange transactions and
a responsibility for managing Romania's balance of payments.  It was incorporated
under the new Banking Law in December 1990 as a joint-stock company wholly owned
by the state. By end-1993 about 1.3 percent of equity was sold to employees, and
Private Ownership Funds owned 29.6 percent of equity.  Senior management has
proposed that the RBFT be privatized in 1994, through the floating of shares for
Romanian investors and by direct placement of up to 50 percent of shares with
foreign institutions. The EBRD has subsequently announced its intention to buy
up to 20 percent of the total RBFT shares by dilution of ownership.
5.          At end-1993, the RBFT capital amounted to LIOO billion, up from about
L35 billion at end-1992 and L20 billion at end-1991. In the course of 1992, to
prevent erosion, the RBFT capital was converted and is now recorded in foreign
exchange; it is invested abroad yielding about 8-9 percent return. The capital
increase was to improve its capital adequacy and to prepare the bank to implement
its diversification and growth-oriented strategy. The strategy includes plans
for aggressive marketing in order to diversify its customers base, which is now
dominated by enterprises from the trade and services sectors; a program to
diversify from financing import and export transactions into lending and
provision of other business-related customer services (e.g., overdraft accounts,
equity finance); and plans to improve regional coverage and access to its
services. Application for participation in the proposed Project is seen as one
of the steps in line with the RBFT business strategy.
6.          The RBFT has been regularly audited by external auditors.  Financial
statements as of end-1991 and end-1992 received clean audit opinions. At end-
1992, the RBFT assets totalled L862 billion; by end-1993 the total assets were
about L2 trillion (an increase by 2.3 times).  The main assets were loans to
public enterprises (L617 billion of which, 75 percent foreign exchange loans) and
deposits with the NBR (L757 billion) and with other banks (L38 billion). The
short-term credit constituted about 70 percent of the loan portfolio. The own-
funding base, comprising sight and term deposits, provided full coverage of the
loan portfolio, both for domestic and for foreign exchange credits. Aggressive
growth of the loan portfolio, which increased by 88 percent in 1992, and by 2.3
times in 1993 has also brought some problems.  The past-due loans amounted to



- 54 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 15
about 4 percent of the RBFT assets in 1991 and the ratio increased to 8 percent
in 1992 and 10 percent in 1993.  The RBFT capital amounted to L100 billion at
end-1993, and the capital adequacy ratio (based on the Basel formula) was close
to 8 percent, down from about 18 percent at end-1992. The ratio was calculated
with an assumption that 90 percent of the nominal value of loss and doubtful
loans portfolio at end-1992, amounting to L40 billion, has been underwritten by
the government.1   In addition, a reduced risk weight was attached to RBFT
contingent liabilities, of which a significant part has been covered by cash
collateral.2 With regard to the loan loss provisions, the RBFT external audits
clarify that the provisions are based on the NBR regulatory requirements and
management evaluation of portfolio risks.   The RBFT profitability 'has been
reasonably good. The net profit amounted to L7.7 billion providing for about 9
percent return on capital in 1992, and L14 billion and about 14 percent,
respectively, in 1993.
7.          The RBFT risk management has been substantially strengthened in
recent years. As of now, and according to its declared policy, the RBFT does not
take the maturity and interest rate risk; it does, however, take limited
guarantee-related foreign currency risk. Thus, the main risk which exists in the
bank's asset portfolio is the credit risk.   However, the bank has recently
diversified into equity investments.  This was intended to help restructuring of
some of the bank's larger borrowers, thus improving their financial position and
decreasing their probability of default.3
8.          The RBFT has introduced procedures for credit appraisal.  These are
specified in a detailed manual, which also defines the various credit approval
and risk exposure limits. The adequacy of these procedures and their relevance
to the changing structure of the Romanian economy needs to be periodically
reviewed by the NBR, as well as by the RBFT's external auditors. The bank has
recently established a loan review function, as the on-going monitoring of the
quality of loan portfolio reduces the probability of loan losses.4 All customers
with loans above L50 million are reviewed each month and problems are reported
to management.
I/ The bad loan portfolio includes a L23 billion credit to the OLTCIT plant which produced Citreon cars
under license. and export credit in the form of deferred payments to several Middle Eastern and African
countries. The OLCIT Loan was advanced before 1989. The ten percent weight factor is based on Decision 447
of 1991 and Law 7 of 1992.
2/    Contingent liabilities covered by government guarantees were assigned the risk factor zero.
However. in the course of 1993 RBFT calLed about L84 million of unconditional government guarantees which
the Government has not honored so far.
I/ The RBFT Board of Directors recently imposed ceilings on such activities. Risks attached to such
activities will be explicitly taken into account when determining the required level of capitalization of
RBFT.
j/ The establishment of a Loan Review function was a condition for qualification.



- 55 -                          ANr, X 3
Page 5 of 15
9.          The bank employs 1300 employees, of which 40 percent have academic
degrees, and about 30 percent are under the age of 30. The bank conducts regular
and comprehensive training programs for its employees (about 200 hours of
training per employee per year) with the help of specialists and foreign
financial institutions.   All banks' commercial activities are computerized.
Major actions are underway to further improve internal controls and management
information systems.
10.         The RBFT was found eligible for participation in the proposed
Project. However, there are certain reservations with regard to the readiness
of bank's staff to cope with the challenges of rapid growth of its loan portfolio
and its branch network.   These reservations relate to the unstable macro-
conditions, the lack of relevant experience and less-than-satisfactory internal
control and management information systems. However, the RBFT management is
providing strong leadership and is fully conscious of the potential pitfalls of
fast diversification and growth, and of the current skill deficiencies.
Societe Generale (SGF)
11.         The SCF has maintained a representative office in Bucharest from the
mid-50s and opened a branch in 1980. It was initially restricted to operating
in foreign currency and started to transact with Romanian entities only after the
1989  revolution.    In 1992,  the  SGF has diversified  into local currency
operations.   Its interest in participation stems from the changed business
strategy of the headquarters, with a strong interest to expand operations and to
become a major player in Eastern Europe.  Senior management of the Bucharest
branch see participation in the proposed Project as an opportunity for the branch
to further penetrate local financial markets and to expand its customer base.
12.         As of end-1993, the branch's total assets amounted to L59 billion,
up from about 15.6 billion in 1992. The main activity of the branch is to take
deposits, which are kept with its Head Office in Paris or with other branches
within the banking group. These activities account for 86 percent of both bank's
total liabilities and total assets. Since end-1992, the SGF started to engage
in domestic credit activities. By end-1993, the total loan portfolio amounted
to L644 million or about 1 percent of the total assets. About 98 percent of
these credits were sbort-term trade finance. The SGF has a "nominal" capital of
LU.3 billion. Its net profit for 1992 amounted to FF2.1 million.
13.         The branch is controlled by the Head Office in Paris, which reviews
its accounts on a monthly basis. The SCF authority to approve credit is limited
to FF3.5 million, and it is obliged to follow Societe Generale's appraisal
procedures. Larger loans have to be approved by the Head Office, which assumes
full responsibility for the operations of the branch. The branch does not take
foreign exchange or interest rate risk. The country risk limits set by the Head
Office for Romania are high enough as not to impose an effective ceiling on the
branch's local currency credits. However, the SGF is conservative with its
domestic credit operations. This is due to the lack of financial information and
of solid business records of potential borrowers.



- 56 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 15
14.         All risks undertaken by the branch are born by the Head Office.  The
appraisal of eligibility of the local branch to take part in the proposed Project
was thus based on the financial strength and soundness of the Societe Generale.
Since it is known to be a major international financial institution, the local
branch was found to be eligible.
Chemical Bank (CBF)
15.         The CBF is a branch of a major US bank, with operations in Bucharest
since  1974.    The  office  has  been  previously  operated  under  the  name
Manufacturers Hanover Trust. Its business has traditionally been confined to
foreign individuals and companies operating in Romania and was restricted to
foreign exchange operations.  After the 1989 revolution, the CBF started to
transact with Romanian individuals and enterprises and has developed a clientele
of about 100 companies, mostly in private ownership.   The CBF has recently
applied to the NBR to start operations in domestic currency.
16.         As of end-1993, the CBF's total assets amounted to L106 billion. The
main activity is to attract foreign currency deposits (L71 billion) and place
them with its headquarters or other branches around the world (L105 billion).
A substantial amount of its activity is off-balance sheet in the form of stand-by
L/C (US$0.5 million), confirmed L/C (US$33 million), and financial guarantees to
exporters (US$11.5 million).  In 1992, the bank accrued net profit of US$4.6
million.
17.         The CBF currently does not have authorization to diversify into
credit operations. It is tightly controlled by the Head Office, which receives
all records on a daily basis, approves all transactions involving any kind of
risk, and is fully responsible for operations of the branch. The CBF interest
in participation stems from its management's concerns that the bank would not be
able to compete, and could even loose its Romanian customers, unless it is able
to provide a more comprehensive set of financial services. To that end, the
branch has applied to headquarters to reconsider its business strategy in Romania
and to assign the branch broader authorization to expand its business activities.
The management hopes to get such authorization before the proposed loan becomes
effective.
18.         Given the existing risk exposure arrangements - i.e., all risks of
Romanian operations are to be attributed to the parent's capital - the decision
on eligibility of the local branch was based on the financial strength and
soundness of the parent bank, and the CBF was found eligible for participation.
ExRort-Import Bank of Romania (EXIM)
19.         The EXIM was founded in March 1991 as a joint-stock company wholly
owned by the state with an initial capital of L30 billion. The Government plans
to privatize the bank in the near future, but a minimum 51 percent share would
be kept in state ownership.  The EXIM is a complex institution, expected to
operate both on behalf of the state and on its own account. It is engaged in
both lending and insurance business.



- 5 7 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 15
20.         On behalf of the state, the EXIM plans to provide financing of
exports and imports of goods in domestic and foreign currency, and to guarantee
import credits, medium and long-term export credits against political and
commercial risks, and short term export credits against political risks. These
operations are carried out within the limits established by the Romanian Inter-
Ministerial Committee for Guarantees and Credits for Foreign Trade, and on terms
established by the Government. On its own behalf, the EXIM activities include
lending for exports and im.ports; insurance and reinsurance of export credits
against commercial risks; equity participation in banks and insurance companies
in Romania and abroad; banking and financial consultancy; assessments of
commercial and political risks; and correspondent banking. Participation under
the proposed Project belongs to the EXIM's own activities.
21.         After about a year of very intensive training, commercial activities
on the Government's behalf started in April and on its own behalf in August 1992.
The opening balance sheet consisted of L19 billion paid-in capital, which was
increased to L25 billion by end-1992 and to L35 billion by end-1993. The capital
adequacy ratio is currently well above 50. The EXIM is engaged in two types of
operations on its own behalf, including export financing and export insurance.
It has originally maintained a consolidated balance sheet of its operations. At
appraisal, the EXIM was advised to separate its banking and insurance business
as a condition for participation. Since end-1992, the EXIM maintains separate
financial statements for insurance and banking activities. For example, out of
the bank's total capital, L5 billion are 'designated" to cover potential losses
from its insurance activity.   However, since this allocation is not legally
binding, it still not certain that a loss in the insurance business will not
impose a further strain on the part of the capital that is supposed to back
credit and other banking risks.
22.         Most of the EXIM's operations so far have been performed on behalf
of the Government.   The EXIM management is rather conservative concerning
operations on EXIM's own behalf, in recognition of the lack of experience and
limited capital. A long gestation period enabled EXIM to be rather systematic
about organizing its business.   Staff has received massive training through
bilateral assistance from the EEC and technical assistance to develop policies
and business procedures. All major areas of activity are covered by procedures
and manuals adopted from major OECD financial institutions; for example, credit
appraisal and monitoring process, country risk analysis, internal controls.
Treasury procedures and internal auditing and controls that are being developed
are expected to provide for better asset/liability and risk management.  The
management information system is rudimentary, but a more comprehensive
computerized system is being developed. This and the accumulated experience from
operating as a government agent will allow the EXIM to get into full-scale
operations on its own behalf.
23.         The EXIM currently employs 200 staff, organized in credit, insurance
and risk management operations. They are a mix of experienced staff, who joined
the EXIM from middle-level management positions in older Romanian banks, and
young staff recruited from the university. The EXIM management has engineered
an aggressive business development program. It is planning to open 6 to 8 new



- 58 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 15
branches (with an investment of L6-8 billion), and to eventually be able to
finance an export volume of about US$5 billion.
24.         Since the first EXIM operations started only recently, there is no
accumulated experience. By end-1992 period, the total volume of EXIM's credit
activity amounted to L4.3 billion.  By end-1993, the EXIM's credit portfolio
increased to L27 billion, all funded from its capital, and mostly extended at
preferential  rates  to selected importers and exporters.   The  quality of
appraisals and EXIM's performance is therefore hard to evaluate.   The final
decision on EXIM participation (i.e., its accreditation) will be made after the
current activities in developing systems, procedures, and management information
are finalized. A foreign external auditing firm is currently auditing the bank
books and advising on the organization of an internal audit division. In order
to be able to qualify, the management has also been asked to formally delineate
the EXIM's banking and insurance business.   Preferably, the EXIM should be
organized as a holding company with two subsidiaries engaged in banking and
insurance business. The bank must also gain sufficient experience in export and
project-related lending.
Ion Tiriac Commercial Bank (TCB)
25.         The TCB was set up in 1990 with an initial subscribed capital of L500
million, of which 50 percent in US dollars and the rest in domestic currency.
By Romanian standards, the TCB has a broad shareholding base. Ion Tiriac and his
group of foreign investors have subscribed 51 percent of equity; the rest was
subscribed by individual Romanian and foreign investors and by some foreign
banks. In the 1990-1992 period, the TCB capital continued to grow (partly due
to revaluation of the foreign exchange portion). In December 1991, the share
capital (equity) was L4.3 billion; by December 1992, the equity increased to
about L7 billion and the total capital to about L17.5 billion.  In 1993, the
equity was further increased to L36 billion (five times). While remaining a
private bank,  the TCB ownership has changed in the process.   The major
shareholders are Ion Tiriac and his group (35 percent), and the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD-20 percent). The third largest shareholder
is a joint venture headed by the local SIVA company (18 percent). The rest is
held by various companies (12 percent) and the Romanian public at large. For
1994, further capital increase has been announced. For the time being, the TCB
capitalization level meets international capital adequacy criteria. Based on
unaudited financial statements submitted to the NBR, the risk based capital ratio
was 17.2 percent at end-1991, 50 percent at end-1992, and at end-1993 about 20
percent. The planned capital increase is to prepare the TCB for further growth
and diversification of its activities.
26.         At end 1993, the total value of the TCB's assets was L283 billion,
up from about L15 billion at end-1991, and about L54 billion at end-1992. Of the
total assets, L97 billion were the foreign liquid assets (i.e., casb, deposits
and marketable securities). The total lending portfolio amounted to about L102
billion (36 percent of the total assets), of which 75 percent has been extended
in foreign exchange. The TCB customers are almost exclusively private. A part
of its asset portfolio is kept in the interbank market (10 percent), mostly in



- 59 -
Page 9 of 15
the form of short-term loans; the share is, however, significantly smaller than
in 1991 and 1992, when the funds in the interbank market typically accounted for
50-70 percent of the TCB's asset portfolio.   Management explained that the
changed asset portfolio structure characterized by a rapid increase of the loan
portfolio (about four times in 1992 and five times in 1993) results from
liberalization of interest rates, allowing the TCB to charge spreads commensurate
to what the bank perceives as appropriate in relation to the credit risk; and the
build up of relationships with a number of reasonably creditworthy clients in the
1990-1993 period, allowing the TCB to extend on-balance sheet financing after
initial positive experiences with first-time clients. The TCBE's loan portfolio
is entirely funded from its own deposit base.   In 1993, the TCB started to
invest, rather aggressively, in stocks of private companies; equity investments
increased from about L2 billion at end-1992 to L56 billion at end-1993.
27.         The TCB's business experience has been positive so far.  As a new
bank, it had a limited scope of operation and risk exposure. It has originally
focused on off-balance sheet operations related to the foreign trade business,
and has avoided taking the interest rate and the foreign exchange risk. The
credit risk was also limited:   the major part of the asset portfolio has
typically been in foreign liquid assets and in the interbank market. However,
the TCB has started to change its business policy by increasing the size of its
loan portfolio and, recently, by getting into investment banking operations.
Concurrently, the bank has started to develop risk management policies, internal
controls and management information systems.  It has adopted standard credit
appraisal procedures and the institutionalized credit review structure includes
the Loan Committee and the Risk Committee. Since it began its operations, the
TCB has had only a handful of loans in default.
28.         The TCB board has 9 members, 3 of which are also bank executives.
It employs 350 staff, of which 22 are credit officers. Managerial and senior
staff positions have been typically filled with experienced managerial and
technical staff from older Romanian banks (e.g., RDB, RBFT) and by Romanians with
banking experience returning from abroad. Less experienced staff have received
on-the-job training. There are no systematic plans for comprehensive upgrading
of skills to be able to support business growth and diversification. One of the
reasons cited for TCB interest in the proposed Project was the availability of
TA and of other types of help expected to be made available to participating
banks.
29.         The TCB has a very high growth potential.  The management foresees
extensive growth in terms of volume and size of its operations and their regional
coverage, as well as business diversification. The real problem is that the
capacity of the TCB to prudently manage its growth is not fully in place, both
in terms of skills and in terms of infrastructure needed to support staff and
management decisions (e.g., risk management, management information systems).
The TCB capacity to absorb fast growth successfully is especially problematic in
terms of the planned increase in the number of branches and in terms of business
diversification (for example, merchant banking and credit card business).



- 60 -
Page 10 of 15
30.         At appraisal, the decision concerning the TCB accreditation has been
postponed until the externally audited financial statement for 1992 become
available. As a condition for qualification, the TCB has also been asked to:
(a) adopt a policy that the amount of total credit granted to affiliated parties
(shareholders and companies associated with them) would not exceed 20 percent of
bank's capital, and reach settlement concerning exposure to affiliated parties
(e.g., through capital increase); (b) introduce internal audits and controls,
including formulation of an intensive annual audit program; and (c) improve
coordination of growth and diversification plans with build-up of skills and
institutional capacity.
31.         In May 1993, the Bank was informed that the TCB succeeded in getting
a clean audit opinion on its externally audited financial statements. It was re-
appraised in early July 1993.   The re-appraisal confirmed the TCB's solid
financial condition with a capital adequacy ratio of over 50 percent. In the
meantime, the management has satisfactorily addressed all issues raised at
appraisal, except for the somewhat higher volume of connected lending. The TCB
was qualified for participation by Bank's management decision in September 1993.
Dacia Felix Bank (DFB)
32.         The DFB is one of the newer bazks in Romania.  It opened for business
in March 1991. It is the only bank in Romania with headquarters out of Bucharest
(the DFB headquarters are in Cluj). In December 1991, the DFB equity capital
amounted to about L600 million; by end-1992 the capital reached L4.6 billion and
by end-1993 about L15 billion.  There are also plans to increase the equity
capital by about 3-5 times by end-1994.   The ownership of the DCB is well
diversified. Among the bank's owners are 2800 private individuals, 2200 private
companies and 318 government-owned companies. Private individuals and private
companies account for well over 51 percent of capital.   The largest DCB
shareholder holds about 12 percent of its equity; there are two companies (one
private and the other state- owned) which hold about 8 percent (each) of the DFB
capital.   However,  the announced capital increase in 1994 will involve a
reputable Swiss bank, which will become a majority shareholder.
33.         As of end-1993, the DFB's assets amounted to L288 billion, up from
about L27 billion at end-1992. The loan portfolio accounted for about 72 percent
of the total assets (L208 billion of which L34 billion in foreign currency); it
increased by about 10 times in 1993, and the foreign currency loan portfolio
increased by 35 times. The portfolio is well diversified, although with high
regional concentration, and mostly extended to private enterprises. Between end-
1991 and end-1993, the DFB's capital adequacy ratio fell from 27 percent to 6.3
percent, and the capital increase become necessary to bring the capital adequacy
to a level required by international standards. The deterioration of capital
adequacy was due to the rapid expansion of its credit operations. The management
claims that the DCB arrears on principal or interest were never higher than 1
percent of the total loan portfolio. The DFB funding base is weak. About L67
billion (32 percent coverage of the loan portfolio) stems from own deposits, and
the remainder is borrowed in the interbank market.



- 61 -                          ANNEX 3
rage 11 of 15
34.         The DFB has experienced very fast growth since its establishment.
The bank employed 45 people in March 1991, 310 in October 1992 and close to 2000
by end-1993. From about 24 branches at end-1992, the DFB doubled the number by
end-1993, and intends to open 16 new branches in the near future. Most employees
have been recruited from the older government-owned banks.   The largest
department of DFB is a credit department. The DFB Board of Directors consists
of 19 members. Most of the board members are private shareholders. There are
also representatives of government companies which own shares of the bank, and
four board members are bank officials.
35.         Compared to other Romanian banks,  the DFB's  growth has been
reasonably well managed. Early on, it established a relatively advanced computer
system.   All branches have PCs.  The Head Office computer provides a daily
balance sheet to the management,  including branch balances.   The bank is
currently engaged in developing an even more comprehensive management information
system.
36.         The DFB has introduced appraisal procedures and risk management
policies. It does not take the interest rate and the foreign exchange risk. A
branch can grant a credit of up to L10 million.  A credit committee at the
headquarters may grant a loan for up to 10 percent of the DFB capital, and the
board can increase the maximum loan amount up to 20 percent of capital.  The
board must explicitly approve all foreign exchange loans exceeding US$0.5
million.  Each credit application includes balance sheets and income statements
of the borrower for the last 3 years. For the medium-term credit, feasibility
study is conducted by the DFB itself. As of now, the DFB has not made any
specific loan loss provision above the general provisions required by the NBR.
Every month, the whole credit portfolio is reviewed by credit officers and the
overdues and borrowers in deteriorating financial conditions are brought to the
board's attention. The bank, however, does not practice systematic borrower and
loan classification.   Given a very aggressive growth rate, the loan review
function and the internal control systems need to be improved.
37.         At appraisal in 1992, the DFB was found eligible to take part in the
proposed Project, once its capital reaches US$10 million, and providing that its
capital adequacy ratio continues to meet the international standard of 8 percent.
This has been subsequently accomplished in April 1993. However, review of the
DFB loan portfolio in July 1993 revealed an incidence of lending to connected
parties amounting to about 80 percent of its capital. In addition, there were
serious concerns regarding too fast growth of the DFB loan portfolio and
especially regarding the extremely weak funding base, which could easily backfire
if financial environment in Romania deteriorates in any respect. The management
was informed that the bank will be qualified only after the connected lending has
been brought in line with NBR prudential regulations, the DFB external audit
report for 1993 is presented to the Bank, and the portfolio risk profile is
adequately addressed.



- 62 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 15
Romanian Development Bank (RDB.
38.         The Romanian Development Bank (RDB) originated in the central
planning system and has been known as the Investment Bank of Romania.   Its
responsibility was to advance investment loans -o the industrial and construction
sector and to provide working capital finance to construction enterprises.
Reform of the financial sector and introduction of the two-tier banking system
in late 1990 led to the establishment of RDB on December 1, 1990, as a commercial
company with universal banking license and wholly owned by the Government.  The
bank took over 41 former branches of the Investment Bank and its asset and
liabilities portfolio. The RDB is a state-owned bank (30 percent owned by the
five POMs); however, the Government has recently announced that it will be
privatized in the course of 1994 and has started to prepare the bank for
privatization.
39.         In the end-1990 to end-1993 period, the RDB experienced high growth
in nominal terms: its total capital increased from L9.5 billion at end-1991, to
L30.7 billion at end-1992, and to L50 billion at end-1993; its total assets grew
from L106.6 billion at end-1990, to L202.3 billion at end-1991, to L 282.8
billion at end-1992, and to L680.6 billion at end-1993. This was accompanied by
an equally aggressive growth of the RDB's branch network, from 41 branches
inherited from the Investment Bank to 140 branches at end-1992. However, in real
terms, the RDB's balance sheet contracted by about 6 percent in 1991, by
approximately 30 percent in 1992 and by another 30 percent in 1993.
40.         From about L106 billion at end-1990, the RDB's loan portfolio grew
to L221 billion at end-1991, of which L144 billion (.119 billion after loss
adjustments) in customer loans and L77 billion in compensation credits; the bank
wrote-off about L25 billion to cover loan losses (equivalent to about 17 percent
of its loan portfolio). As a result, the customer loan portfolio contracted in
1991 by a total of 42 percent in real terms. At end-1992, the loan portfolio
amounted to L193 billion, of which about L180 billion were customer loans and the
remainder were compensation credits. With losses equivalent to about 15 percent
of the loan portfolio (L27.8 billion), the real volume of the RDB loan portfolio
was L152 billion. This was a contraction of further .6 percent in real terms
compared to its size at end-1991, and of 64 percent in real terms compared to its
size at end-1990. At end-1993, RDB's loan portfolio amounted to L374 billion,
a further contraction of over 20 percent in real terms. This contraction of the
RDB balance sheet and loan portfolio enabled the bank to consolidate its
financial position and to change the risk profile of its balance sheet. The
consolidation has been accompanied by a radical change of RDB clients, who now
include a significant number of private enterprises. Against the background of
similar contraction of Romanian enterprise credit market, the RDB managod to
maintain its credit market share at about 8 percent level throughout 1992 and
1993.
41.         The significant contraction of the RDB's asset portfolio coupled with
increase in the RDB's share capital have brought a significant improvement of
capital adequacy. The accumulated losses in the capital account were reduced
from L20.8 billion in 1991 to L9.6 billion in 1992, and the bank received a



- 63 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 15
capital injection of L 14 billion in the course of 1992. Consequently, the RDB
moved to a positive net worth position of about L13 billion at end-1992. The
ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets improved from negative 7 percent at end-
1991, to 7.9 percent at end-1992, and to over 10 percent at end-1993, thus
meeting the international capital adequacy standards. Favorable conditions in
credit markets, with spreads as high as 30 percentage points, have also boosted
RDB's profitability. Net interest income increased from L3.9 billion at end-
1991 to L24.5 billion at end-1992. The total after tax income improved from a
loss of L22 billion in to a profit of L14.9 billion.
42.         Another positive development has been a much improved' funding
structure.  The RDB's customer deposits doubled from L88.3 billion in 1991 (43
percent coverage of the loan portfolio) to L 153 billion in 1992 (93 percent
coverage), and L274 billion (73 percent coverage) in 1993. The RDB became a net
lender in the interbank market. Consequently, the RDB has gained better control
over its cost of funds.  Coupled with successful resolution of the portfolio
maturity mismatches, this has brought a significant degree of flexibility to
adjust its balance sheet size and structure to changing conditions in the
Romanian economic environment.
43.         The RDB has also made an excellent progress  in building  its
institutional  capacity.    Most  important  auditor's  recommendations  were
successfully implemented in the course of 1992 including restructuring of the
branch network, closer preoccupation with risk control and portfolio management
and improvements in credit appraisal and supervision capacity. The bank has
pursued  an  ambitious  institution-building  program  in  1993,   including
computerization and introduction of a computerized management information system,
further strengthening of risk management policies and procedures, and a massive
training program for management and staff.
44.         The RDB was originally appraised in October 1992,.and was rejected
because it did not meet capital adequacy and other qualification criteria.
Management was informed about major issues which need to be addressed for the
bank to qualify for participation.   It was re-appraised in July  .993.  The
capital adequacy and the financial position were found satisfactory and all
recommendation to management were successfully implemented.  Consequently, the
RDB has been qualified for participation in the proposed Project.
Commercial Bank of Romania (RCB)
45.         In the 1945-1989 period, the National Bank of Romania (NBR), under
central planning system, provided working capital and other non-investment
financial services to Romanian enterprises. The financial sector reform, which
was initiated in early 1990, included establishment of a two-tier banking system.
The RCB was formed in December 1990 by carving out commercial operations from the
original NBR portfolio. It immediately became the largest Romanian bank.
46.         At end-1990, the RDB accounted for about half of the total assets and
about 60 percent of the total credit portfolio of the Romanian banking sector.
Its dominance, with over 80 percent share, was especially strong in the short-



- 64 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 15
term end of the credit market. In the 1991 to mid-1993 period, the RCB remained
the largest Romanian bank.  However, its degree of market dominance has been
successfully challenged; its share declined to 35 percent in 1991 and to 24
percent of the total banking sector assets in 1992 and 1993; the total share in
non-government credit market contracted to 47 percent and 30 percent,
respectively.
Table A3.3: Summary of RCB Balance Sheet
(in L billion)
1990        1991        1992         1993
Dec.        Dec         Dee.         June
Assets                  285          775         935          2.549
Loans                    269         648 (2)     583 (3)      1,249 (4)
(of which bad)          (40)        (70)        (105) (5)
customer Deposit                     191          234         450
Sbare Capital             7 (1)       12          30           42
Total Capital             7.4         21          88          109
no. of Branches/Offices  110         180         200          221
No. of Employess         3000        6500        9200         10500
Notes: (1) Authorized capital of L 12 blUion of which L 7 billion paid-in capital
(2) Includes L 334 billion in compensation credits under Law 80
(3) Of which L 29 billion are compensation credits under Law 80
(4) Of which L 19 billion are compensation credits under Law 80
(5) Of which L 36 billion to be absorbed by the Government under Law 7
47.         Against the background of persistent decline of the RCB's share in
the domestic credit market, the RCB's balance sheet grew in nominal and
contracted in real terms.  Key parameters are summarized in Table A3.3.  An
important reason for the significant contraction was that 96 percent of the RCB's
loan portfolio consists of loans to state owned enterprises, with a heavy
concentration in machine-building, chemicals and metallurgy.  These were the
sectors most severely affected by the loss of markets and systemic changes in the
1991-1993 period, with obvious consequences concerning the quality of RCB's
assets.
48.         At end-1991, the RCB took a major hit by putting aside L70 billion
in provisions for bad and doubtful loans, and ended a year with a loss of L78
billion. However, 1992 was a good year thanks to the large interest margins:
the RCB's net interest income increased from L16 billion in 1991 to L136 billion
in 1992 (i.e. 8.5 times); fees and commission income increased from L1.7 billion
to L9 billion, respectively. This has enabled the RCB to put aside additional
L48 billion in loss provisions and hyperinflation reserves and to make a net
after tax profit of L88 billion. With the L18 billion state capital infusion,
the RCBs capital position consequently improved from L48 billion negative net
worth at end-1991, to L42 billion positive net at end-1992. At the same time,



- 65 -
Page 15 of 15
the RCB's ratio of capital to risk weighted assets improved from negative 36
percent at end-1992 to 7.7 percent at end-1992, or close to international
standard for risk based capital adequacy.
49.         Funding strategy is the RCB's weak point.  It's own funding base
relative to the size of the portfolio continued to deteriorate from about 27
percent of total liabilities at end-1991 to 25 percent at end-1992 and 18 percent
at end-1993. The proposed Loan coverage has worsened from 81 percent in 1991 to
71 percent in 1992 and to 36 percent in 1993. This has made the RCB especially
vulnerable to changes of the cost of funds and conditions of access to the
interbank market and the NBR refinancing facilities.
50.         On the more positive side, the RCB has made significant progress in
institution building. This includes automation of the RCB's branch nettiork;
significant improvement in quality of management reporting; improvement in credit
appraisal and loan administration procedures; establishment of strategic planning
and of loan supervision function including a work-out unit; strengthening of
bank's international activities; major staff training programs; etc.
51.         The RCB was first appraised in November 1992. Based on financial
statements at end-1991 and mid-1992, it was rejected due to the inadequate
financial condition and the failure to meet capital adequacy criteria. It was re-
appraised in June 1993.  At this time, the RCB was able to meet the capital
adequacy criteria established for participation in the proposed Project.
However, the qualification was postponed until such time when the following
actions have been taken: (a) full loan portfolio review and loan classification
(allowing for meaningful portfolio with assessment) has been completed;  (b)
specific risk management policies and an action plan to address high portfolio
concentration in machine-building, metallurgy and chemical sector have been
developed; and (c) a program to expand its funding base and gain better control
over the cost of funds has been designed.



-66 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
INDUSRIAL DE2EL0PMENT PROJECT
Foreigh Trade and Expnort Credit Demand
Trade Balance
1.          As in the other reforming socialist economies, Romania's trade and
payments system operated in a barter-trade regime with the CMEA countries and
through normal commercial contracts with the rest of the world.   The trade
volumes between the two zones were roughly equal in the 1980s. The trade account
balance with the convertible currencies markets was positive throughout the
1980s; in 1988 it reached a peak of US$3.6 billion.
2.          Compared to the other CMEA and to most developing countries, Romania
has been a major exporter; exports accounted for 31 percent of GDP in the 1980.
1981 period. The policy of self-reliance and increasingly compressed imports
eventually brought deterioration of export performance to about 19 percent of GDP
in the 1988-1989 period.  Systemic changes after the revolution and the CMEA
collapse brought a further reduction of foreign trade in recent years. In 1990-
1991, the total exports fell to less than 10 percent of GDP. The trade account
balance has been consistently negative since the revolution, with the worst
deficit of US$3.4 billion experienced in 1990, the first year after the
revolution.
3.          In both absolute and relative terms, the decline of Romania's export
performance after the revolution has been even worse than the decline of its GDP
and industrial output. The total exports declined from US$11.4 billion in 1988
(of which US$6.5 billion to convertible currency markets), to US$5.8 billion in
1990 (of which US$3.4 billion to convertible currency markets), to US$4.28
billion in 1992, and US$4.5 billion in 1993 (Table A4.1). With an encouraging
annual growth of about 29 percent in 1992 and 8 percent in 1993, the convertible
currency exports have not yet reached their 1989 level and the total exports are
about one-third of the export volume in the last full year of central planning.
4.          The decline of exports in the face of systemic collapse and the CMEA
disintegration has occurred in all former CHEA countries.  However, Romania's
peers in Eastern Europe (e.g., Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria) have experienced
reasonably fast recovery of the convertible currency exports, which had not
materialized in the Romanian case. This was mostly due to the unsustainable
composition of Romanian traditional exports and to a number of other structural
or systemic reasons.



- 67-                           ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
Table A4.1:  Romanian Trade Balance
(in US$ million)
-Tota-    -ehnvtble Curendcs-         -Tranferatle Ruble&-
tno-rps   lUoWs  BEaince  Imoons      faalance  Imnors  Ex    DJnBasa
1987   8,313   10,491   2,178   3,428  $864    2,436   4,349  4,206   .143
1988   7,642   11,392   3,750   2,903  6,511   3,608   4,271  4,450    179
1989   8,437   10,487   2,0z0   3,406  S,9S6   2,5S9  4,602   4,144   .458
1990   9,114    5,770  -3X364   S,107  3,364  -1,743   3,678  2,170  .1-,08
1991    5,345    4,125   -1220    45e2   3,236   .1,266    455    592    137
1992   5,433    4,286  -1,147   5,290  4,197  -1,093    143    89      -54
1993   S,675   4,527   -1,148   5,675  4.527  .1,148     -      -
Sourc: National Bank of Romania.
Issues in Exi:ort Reco2very
5.         Fuels and oil-based chemical exports have traditionally accounted for
about 60 percent of Romania's convertible currency exports; these exports were
mostly based on arbitrage between the oil prices within the CMEA block and the
prices of oil-related products in international markets.   Such arbitrage
opportunities have disappeared since the CMEA disintegration. On the CHLk side,
about 60 percent of exports during the 1980s were registered in the machinery and
equipment category. The markets for capital goods were especially hard hit since
the transition to a market economy started in the former CMEA countries.
6.         Another systemic reason for declining export performance is the
dilapidated capital stock of Romanian enterprises. The policy decision in the
early 80s to repay Romania's external debt and the consequent halt in capital
equipment imports, resulted in a situation where 75-100 percent of the Romanian
capital stock is older than ten years even in the most prominent export sectors.
Maintenance or restoration of their competitive positions requires significant
investments in rehabilitation and modernization of enterprises' capital stock,
in concert with other types of restructuring.
7.         Other systemic reasons for the continuing decline of exports are to
be found in the past industrial policies resulting in specific structural
features of the Romanian manufacturing sector. As a legacy of the self-reliance
policy, the producers in Romania maintain a highly diversified production
spectrus and are all virtual monopolists at the single product level. In other
words, a producer typically has monopolistic suppliers of his production inputs,
and he is himself a monopolistic supplier to his customers. Problems affecting
enterprises in a system with such structural characteristics are contagious, in
that they very quickly spread down supply chains. Enterprises are not able to
escape, unless they are well capitalized, have adequate access to finance and



- 68 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
imported  inputs,  and have reasonably developed marketing and procurement
capacity, none of which has been the case in Romania.
8.          A highly volatile economic environment, with frequently changing
rules of the game (e.g., price and foreign exchange management policies switching
from fairly liberal to increasingly government c.r.trclld) Ies elso contributed
to export decline. The case in point is the decline in exports following the
November 1991 "full surrender of export proceeds" policy, and the fast recovery
leading to a first monthly foreign trade surplus in August 1992, after the full
retention policy was re-introduced. This generally difficult situation has been
further aggravated by the lack of capacity of the banking sector to deliver
appropriate financing in terms of volume, timing and instruments. Finally, the
arrears problems have hurt Romanian exporters almost as badly as other
enterprises.
9.          On the positive side, there are sectors and enterprises which,
despite all odds, have managed to do reasonably well. This has been the case in
garments and knitwear, furniture and small engineering products industries. A
common factor for these sectors is that the prices were liberalized early, and
the enterprises have had long-term commercial arrangements with a company in some
OECD country.
Short-Term Remedies
10.         The Government is aware that the rapid recovery of exports holds a
key to economic recovery and to successful transition. On the policy front, a
number of measures have been implemented aiming to improve the policy environment
for exporters. Access to foreign exchange has been liberalized, and mechanisms
allowing market based management of exchange rates were introduced.   (Full
details are provided in Annex 6). The tariff regime was unified and simplified.
Import quotas and licensing for protection purposes are practically non-existent.
Exports and imports can, with few exceptions, be undertaken without explicit
government approval.   This has provided for a relatively unbiased trade-
incentives regime which promotes export and import activities based on efficiency
and competitiveness.
11.         Besides the mentioned policy and structural factors, which will take
a longer time to address, exports are constrained by the difficulties in
obtaining adequate pre-shipment finance. Since the import content of Romanian
exports can be as high as 50 percent, the ability of exporters to obtain pre-
shipment finance on time and at competitive rates is critical to the rapid
improvement of export performance.
12.         Government agencies (i.e., MOI, HOF, Ministry of Trade, National
Statistical Office) do not presently collect detailed information concerning
import dependency ratios of Romanian exports. Indicators of import dependencies
were developed through a detailed survey of foreign trade enterprises, most of
which are virtual monopolies concerning foreign trade in their respective sectors
(Table A4.2)



- 69 -                              ANEX 4
Page 4 of 5
Table A4.2: Import Dependency of Romanian Exports
Name of Foreigp Trade Organization        Sectoral             Direct Average Import Content
Products               as a % of Export Value
ARPIMEX                         Shoes, Leatherwear              up to 50l
CONFEX                          Garments                        30 to 40%
CONST RANSIMEX                  Construction Services and Equipment  up to 509'l
| LECTRONUM                     Electronic Equipment, Cable, Telecomm.   up to 15%
Equipment
|FlUCT EXPORT                   Agricultural Products           30%
IELXIM                          Furniture, Cast Products, Carpets. Toys    up to 30%
MASINO EXPORT IMPORT            Machine Tools, Woodworking, and Textile  up to 15%
Machinery
MEHANO EXPORT IMPORT            Construction Equipment, Railway Roling   up to 20%
Stock, Diesel Engines, Air Compressoss
ROMANO EXPORT                   Teiles, Fabtic, Knitwear, etc.  up to 20%
ROMELECRO                      JElectrical Equipment and Appliances  15%
ROMSlT                          Glassware, and Ceramies         up to 20o
TEHNO FOREST EXPORT             Furniture, Wood Products, Prefab. Houses  IS%
TEHNO IMPORT EXPORT             Ball Beatrings, Technical Goods  up to 40%
UNWMERSALTRADING                Tractors, Farm Macbinezy, Trucks, Buses   10-20%
vrrRoaiM                        Building Materials, Woodworking and  up to SO%
*,1 _________________________    Building  Machinery
Soumce: Foreign Trade Companies.
13.          The availability of pre-shipment export finance in foreign currency
is currently limited to the foreign supplier credit lines. Access to finance is
complex azd expensive relative to financing terms of Romania's international
competitors. (Elaborated in detail in Annex 6). Due to the inability to convert
domestic currency into foreign exchange in a timely manner, the domestic credit
markets are also inconvenient. The exporters are practically forced to finance
the export production almost entirely from their own funds. This limits the
realization of their full export potential.   The proposed line of credit in
foreign currency under the proposed Project, appropriately priced at competitive
rates, can help remove the credit constraint to exports and enhance the price
competitiveness of Romanian exporters.



- 70 -                  A~~~~NNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
Export Credit Demand
14.         Export credit demand estimates were derived in two ways.  First, an
assumption was made that a credit line under the proposed Project should be able
to finance all major categories of positive value-added Romanian exports.
Estimates are summarized in Table A4.3. Given an average of about 100-120 days
per export cycle, the annual foreign exchange financing demand would total about
US$631 million, which translates to about US$180 to 210 million for a revolving
export credit line.
Table A4.3: Convertible Currency Exports of Selected Industrial
Sectors and Their Financing Estimates
(in US$ million)
Average    Estimated
1991       1992       1993     % Import   Financing
Content    Demand
Plastic, Rubber Articles   52.0       85.4       76.4       10           7.6
Leather Products           16.9       24.8       27.9       15           4.2
Wood-Based Industries     112.2      154.6      159.5       15          24.0
Tetiles, Garments         3253       4543       7003        20         140.0
Footware                   66.8       72.7      145.2       50          72.5
Base Metals and Artidces  608.8      733.9      926.4       15          3.9
Machinery and Electronics  3859      464.7      386.4       20          77.2
Transport Equipment       300.5      444.0      372.4       25          93.0
Industrial Goods          363.8      365.7      368.0       20          73.6
631.0
Source: Ministryof Industry.
15.         Alternative estimate of pre-shipment export credit demand was made
through a detailed survey of exporters with a proven track record, conducted by
the Ministry of Industry in late 1992. The exporters were asked to identify very
specific export opportunities which they would not be ab.e to fulfill due to the
lack of pre-shipment finance.   The opportunities referred to potential 1993
export contracts for which the companies have received invitation to bid, or to
specific detailed information received from their old clients or their trading
compar4ies.   This  survey yielded a total of US$1.36 billion  in potential
incremental export volume, requiring an estimated US$443 million in foreign
exchange financing.



- 71 -                          6AE  5
Page I of 6
INDUSTRIAL DEVLOPUi4NT -PROJECT
Criteria and Procedure for PFI Cualification and AccXtditation
1.          ApplicatioL  for ParticiRatio.  An application for participation of
a financial institution in the intermediation of IDP-financed credit lines shall
be filed with the Department of Bank Supervision, National Bank of Romania.
2.          Papers Reguired.   The applicatior. for participation sboild be
accompanied by: (a) a full set of documents and tables as listed in Attachment
2 of this document; (b) an outline of operational policies and guidelines as
specified in Attachment 3; (c) a brief corporate strategy outline as explained
in Attachment 4; and (d) a statement, signed by the Chief Executive Officer, that
the financial institution agrees to be subject to the Bank's appraisal process.
3.          Screening. Upon submission of the application supported by the above
listed documentation, the National Bank of Romania (NBR) will review the
application. According to the qualification criteria listed in Attachment 1, the
NBR would decide whether a bank qualifies for full appraisal or not.  If the
opinion is positive, both the World Bank and the applicant bank should be
notified. A bank, which, according to the opinion of the NBR, does not meet the
qualification criteria will be informed in writing, including specific reasons
for refusal of their application and advice regarding necessary improvements
before it could re-apply. A copy of this letter would be forwarded to the World
Bank.
4.          AoRraisal.  At an opportune time, the World Bank would appraise a
bank for which a positive opinion by the NBR has been received. If the appraisal
were satisfactory, the bank would be advised to submit papers necessary for
accreditation. Otherwise, the bank would be informed in writing as to why it is
not able to qualify.
5.          Accreditation. The accreditation would be effected upon presentation
of the following documentation:
(a)   Board Resolution - A copy of the resolution of the Board of
Directors of a PFI authorizing the PFI to sign with the Ministry of
Finance a Subsidiary Credit Agreement concerning loans financed by
IDP against subloans that it intends to extend to eligible borrowers
and subprojects, and designating twc authorized signatories (at
least one signatory shall have the rank of vice president or officer
of equivalent rank to sign on behalf of the PFI all papers
pertaining to the loans;
(b)   Letter of Understanding, accepting for IDP-financed projects and
transactions to: (i) adhere to the Operating Policy guidelines for



- 72 -                          ANNEX S
Page 2 of 6
IDP-financed credit lines; (ii) establish a unit or an identifiable
group to be responsible for approval and supervision of IDP-financed
subprojects and a Loan Review Committee; and (iii) provide training
for the unit or group staff as advised by the World Bank; and
(c)   Agreement for IDP-financed projects and transactions to: (i) adhere
to procurement and disbursement procedures of the World Bank; (ii)
maintain loan accounts and documentation; and (iii) submit annually
externally audited financial statements concerning the IDP related
portfolio for as long as the bank continues to participate in IDP-
financed credit lines.
6.          Susnension/Termination of 4ccreditation.   In case a subsequent
evaluation of the eligibility of a PFI shows that it has not maintained
compliance with the qualification and accreditation criteria and/or with the
Operating Policies Guidelines, it will be suspended from further participation.
Once the reasons for suspension have been satisfactorily resolved, the bank would
be able to re-apply for participation.



- 73 -                           AM    S
Page 3 of 6
ATTAQCME   1 TO ANNX .2
QUalifleation Criteria
1.          A financial institution that seeks to participate in IDP-financed
credit lines should be in a sound financial condition and have a satisfactory
performance reflective of the healthy loan and investment portfolio, and should
adhere to sound operating policies and procedures.  Specifically, a financial
institution must comply with the following qualification criteria:
(a)   The ratio of total capital to risk assets should not be lower than
8 percent, of which 4 percent primary capital.
(b)   It must have  demonstrated  satisfactory performance,  including
profitable operations, for at least a year immediately preceding the
date of application for accreditation.
(c)   It  must  have  satisfactory  financial  policies  and  operating
procedures, including loan classification and provisioning on the
asset-by-asset basis.
(d)   The PFI shall comply with the ceilings and limitations on loans to
directors, officers, stockholders, and related interests, including
the 20 percent single borrower limit in accordance with existing
regulations. A bank would be obliged to report to the National Bank
of Romania all assets where the exposure to a single borrower
exceeds 10 percent of bank capital.
(e)   The total past due loans must not exceed 10 percent of the total
loan portfolio  of assets  acquired after January 1,  1991.   A
financial institution whose level of arrears exceeds the 10 percent
ceiling may still apply for participation, providing that the
unimpaired capital and reserves are sufficient to meet the minimum
capital requirements. Appraisal of such a financial institution
should finally determine whether or not it will be allowed to
participate.
(f)   It must  ha-ve  satisfactory  credit  appraisal  policies  and  an
organization, management and staff with the requisite expertise to
identify, appraise and supervise the utilization of the loans; and,
for export finance, to handle international trade transactions and
the related documentation.
(g)   It must be in good standing with the National Bank of Romania, and
be in satisfactory compliance with all pertinent laws, rules and
regulations to the satisfaction of all regulatory authorities.
(h)   It must have a business strategy acceptable to the World Bank.



- 74 -                            ANN
Page 4 of 6
ATTACHMENT 2 TO ANNEX 5
Documents and Data to be Provided with Annlication for Participation
I. Documents
1.    Financial statements for three years immediately preceding the date of
application, including Balance Sheet, Income Statement and Sources and
Uses of Funds Statement;
2.    Articles of Establishment and By-Laws;
3.    Number of branches/subsidiaries,  their relationship with head office,
their authorizations;
4.    List  (including very short biography)  of Board members  and  Senior
Management;
5.    Manuals on different policies and procedures specifically including:
income accrual, loan classification, provisioning, project appraisal,
project supervision and risk exposure;
6.    Three samples of project/credit analysis;
7.    Business plan including assumptions of financial market demand;
8.    List and exposure to 20 largest clients;
9.    Technical assistance or staff capacity building program currently in
progress or planned;
II. List of Tables
1.    Table 1:  Organizational Chart including number of professional staff
2.    Table 2:  Highlights of Past Operations (Product Lines)
3.    Table 4:  Portfolio Risk (exposure and arrears)
4.    Table 5:  Funding Position
5.    Table 6:  Actual and Projected Income Statements
6.    Table 7:  Actual and Projected Balance Sheets
7.    Table 8:  Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements



- 75 -                          AME   5
Page 5 of 6
Outline of Policy Statements
1.    mission Statement
2.    Policies to Maintain Institutional Strength and Soundness
2.1   Portfolio quality
2.2   Appraisal standards
2.3   Exposure limits:  single enterprise, industry/subsector, business
groups, affiliates
2.4   Relationship vis-a-vis directors, officers, shareholders and related
interests
3.   Asset-Liability Management Guidelines
3.1   Liquidity management
3.2   Currency matching
3.3   Maturity matching
3.4   Matching of variable vs. fixed rate assets and liabilities
4.    Rate of Return Criterion
5.    Borrower Restrictions
5.1  Minimum current ratio
5.2   Maximum debt/equity ratio
5.3   Minimum debt service coverage ratio
6.    Financial Prudence Ratios/Guidelines
6.1   Capital adequacy
6.2   Adequacy of provisions
6.3   Minimum debt service coverage ratio
6.4   Minimum collection ratio
7.    Procurement Policy
8.    Environmental Considerations



-76-                            A_  E
Page 6 of 6
ATTACHMENT 4 TO ANNEX 5
Outline of Corporate Strategy
1.    Relations with Corporate Sector, Financial Sector and Government
2.    Strategies to Strengthen the Balance Sheet
2.1   Portfolio quality
2.2   Capital adequacy
2.3   Balance sheet vs. off-balance-sheet growth
2.4   Diversification of asset mix and liability base
3.    Business Strategies
3.1   Product  line  development/diversification,  including  time-bound
targets
3.2  Relative importance of various asset/liability product lines
3.3   Marketing strategies
3.4   Target market shares
4.    Funding Strategies
4.1   Products offered or planned to increase the own funding base
4.2   Measures to manage the funding risk
5.    Operational Strategies
5.1   Improvements in internal control
5.2   MIS development
5.3   Automation
5.4   Planning and budgeting
5.5   Financial management systems
5.6 Project finance: appraisal and supervision standards and procedures
6.    Operations, Profitability and Balance Sheet Projections
6.1   Profitability of product lines, relative growth and importance over
time
6.2   Relative contribution to profit by product lines
6.3 Relative magnitude and composition of assets and liabllities on the
balance sheet
a:\annez5 (April 25. 1994)



-77 -                                  ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Market and Foreign Exchange Credit Market
A. The Foreign Exchange Markets
(a)   Exchange Rate Management Policies
1.          The liberalization of the foreign exchange markets and operations in
Romania was initiated in November 1990, as a part of the first package of
policies initiating the transition to a market economy.   The liberalization
measures included 50 percent foreign exchange retention of export proceeds;
liberalization of current account payments and trans-border capital transfers,
including cash payments, bank transfers and foreign debt service; and
introduction of foreign exchange asf,ounts for physical and legal persons in
financial institutions authorized to oterate in Romania. In February 1991, the
Government established a foreign exchauge market allowing access to banks legally
operating in Romania and to government agencies and the NBR. The original rules
were somewhat modified in June 1991, by placing limits on the amounts and
purposes of current account payments and trans-border capital transfers. The
foreign exchange market was further liberalized in July 1991, allowing the
establishment of foreign exchange bureaus and, in effect, opening direct access
to the foreign exchange market to physical persons.
2.          In practice,  the  active  exchange  rate management  policy was
implemented only half-way. The government state-owned enterprises (i.e., RAs)
and certain other enterprises operating in sectors deemed of strategic
importance, continued to operate in a fixed exchange rate regime. Since November
of 1990, for about a year, the exchange rate was kept at US$1 - 60 leu.  The rest
of the economy was operating in a "free floating' exchange rate regime. If an
enterprise was not an exporter, foreign exchange needs were to be satisfied in
the foreign exchange market. In the period November 1990 to November 1991, the
exchange rate on the free market segment increased from US$1 - 60 lei to US$1 -
250 lei. Thus, there was an exchange rate difference of over 4 times between
those who had access to the fixed rate segment of the market and those who did
not, with accompanying relative price distortions.
3.          The policy shifted again in November 1991 due to the need to unify
the exchange rate and to get hold of sufficient foreign exchange to bring the
country through the winter period, since the anticipated disbursements from the
C-24  did  not  materialize.    The  four  sets  of  regulations  enacted  in
November/December of 1991 included:   exchange rate unification and a new
mechanism for government management of the exchange rate;  rules for and
priorities in foreign exchange allocation; limitations on current payments and
trans-border capital transactions; and strict control of foreign exchange
accounts of physical and legal persons. The new rules resulted in a significant
decline of Romanian exports.



- 78 -                               ANNEX-6
Page 2 of 6
4.          In May 1992, as a part of a policy package associated with the second
IMF stand-by, the foreign exchange related policies and markets were again
liberalized, including introduction of 100 percent retention of export proceeds.
The main elements of the foreign exchange related regime include: (i) re-
establishment of the foreign exchange market in the form of interbank market for
buying/selling operations effected by legal persons, and a market consisting of
a network of foreign exchange bureaus for buying/selling of foreign currency
effected by physical persons. The interbank market operates in two forms, as a
daily auction market and through direct interbank settlements (originally allowed
for amounts of less than US$50,000 per transaction). Legal persons participate
in the interbank market through their "principal" bank. Buyers in that market
are requested to present documents attesting to the current account nature nf
their operations and are allowed to buy an amount of up to the payment due value;
if they already owe some foreign exchange funds, they may only buy the
difference; (ii) capital transfers are allowed only for specifi'- purposes and
need to be authorized by the NBR and, in some cases, by the MOF.  The applicants
must prove the source of financing and that they do not have other outstanding
liabilities; (iii) legal and physical persons are allowed to keep foreign
exchange accounts.   The regulations stipulate the legal sources of foreign
exchange for deposits; and (iv) the exchange rate for leu is based on the average
price determined in daily auctions in the interbank market. The NBR has been
allowed to participate and conduct operations in the market to protect the
national currency and to manage international reserves.
(b) Recent Developments
5.         'While establishing the foreign exchange market, the course of the
exchange rate policies was dictated primarily by a wish to avoid a vicious spiral
of inflation-depreciation, that could be established if the exchange rate was
freed in the absence of complementary supporting macroeconomic policies. The
Government also wanted to ensure secure access to foreign exchange for imports
of energy and raw materials. Large fiscal deficits (especially in 1992), highly
negative interest rates through most of the period, and episodic price
liberalizations contributed to pressures on the exchange rate. In concert with
the policies of gradualism in other areas, the authorities opted for a policy of
gradual liberalization of the exchange regime intended to lead to eventual
convertibility, by manipulating the rules of market access and limiting the daily
changes cf the exchange rate. In the event, the leu has undergone substantial
nominal devaluation with episodic phases of real appreciation and depreciation.
By end-l991, the leu was trading at 1276 lei to one US dollar, from the rate of
20 lei to tne US dollar in October 1990, a depreciation, in real terms of about
35 percent; compared to the fourth quarter of 1992, however, the rate experienced
a real appreciation of about 40 percent.
6.          In summary, substantial distortions have emanated from management of
the exchange rate.   Recognition that these policies were harming Romania's
prospects for sustained income growth become more apparent in late 1993.  In
early 1994, the Government finally decided, under the umbrella of the IMF Stand-
by agreement, to fully liberalize access to foreign exchange market and allow
free float of the exchange rate.



- 79 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
(c)   Foreign Exchange (FX) Market Operations
7.          The exchange rate has been managed through the FX market, and it has
not been allowed to move more than 5 percent from the reference exchange rate of
the praceding day. Since August 1992, the banks have been obliged to bring to
the FX market auctions all orders above US$2,000 equivalent. This has Increased
the volume of market transactions but the level of executions, however, has
remained rather low. The market mechanism in the mid-1992 to end-1993 period has
been the following. The auction participants submit to the NBR their sale or
purchase orders in closed envelopes, quoting the amount and the respective
exchange rate.   The sale offers are then organized in the ascending order,
starting from the lowest exchange rate; and the purchase offers are organized
in the descending order, starting with the highest bid. Both are executed in the
range in which the sale/purchase orders match, the rest remains unfulfilled. The
daily average of executed orders determines the equilibrium foreign exchange.
8.          In September 1992, the rules of the auction market were further
changed in that the sale/purchase orders were to be first organized and executed
only among clients of the same bank. After the operations within a bank have
been settled, the remaining selling orders were to be executed. The rationale
for the new rules was to motivate the banks to be more aggressive in convincing
their exporter-clients to sell their foreign exchange. In the September-November
1992 period, the typical daily volume of the FX auction market stood at about
US$3-5 million equivalent on the supply side, and US$15-20 million equivalent on
the demand side. The percentage of fulfilled orders for the market as a whole
was in the 7-25 percent range. The situation has substantially worsened during
the winter months when the level of executions typically stood at 5 percent or
less of the foreign exchange demand. Against the background of the Government's
firm resolution not to allow fast depreciation of the exchange rate, this was
mostly because the purchase orders associated with imports of energy products,
food, medications and similar necessities preempted orders of other market
participants.
9.          The spring 1993 brought little improvement.   The GovernmentIs
exchange rate policy with managed movements within the 5 percentage range has
brought an increasing disparity of supply and demand in the foreign exchange
market. Rather than allowing a free float until an equilibrium is established,
the disequilibrium has been addressed by de-facto tightening the rules of access
to the foreign exchange market. However, there has been no real improvement.
In summer 1993, the average level of purchase orders execution was still in the
2-5 percent range. The total amount of foreign exchange offered in the market
in June 1993 was US$61 million, of which US$48 million (79 percent) was sold at
prices within the administered range; on the other hand, the registered foreign
exchange demand amounted to US$ 1.7 billion, of which US$48 million (2.8 percent)
was successfully transacted.
10.         Government interventions in determining the exchange rate were not
able, however, to prevent continuing depreciations.  Moreover, parallel markets
flourished, at premiums often much above the official rates. At the end of 1993,
it was estimated that only about 15 percent of exchange transactions was passing



- 80 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
through the official auction market.   About two-thirds of the flow that was
successfully transacted was using an unofficial "grey" market, consisting largely
of interenterprise transactions, at a premium generally between 25-35 percent of
the auction rate.  The persistent wide divergence between the official and
parallel rates entailed substantial implicit subsidies to those importers who
were able to obtain foreign exchange in the auction. In addition, pricing of
energy and agricultural products referenced the official rate as the benchmark
for domestic price setting, entailing considerable implicit subsidies to energy
users.   Meanwhile, the many changes in the foreign exchange regime undercut
Romania's drive for sustained export growth and reduced confidence in the leu.
11.         Radical changes, including liberalization of market access and taking
steps towards allowing for free float of the exchange rate introduced in January
1994, have had a positive effect on the market.   Against the background of
substantial depreciation of leu (from 1250 lei to one US dollar at end-1993 to
1600 lei to one US dollar at end-March 1994), the "grey" market rate fell within
the range of 5-10 percent of the nominal (i.e., official) exchange rate, and the
percentage of the foreign exchange purchase order execution increased to the 70-
80 percent range.
B. Foreign Exchange Credit Market
(a) Sources of Foreign Exchange Credit
12.         Excluding the international financial institutions,  the typical
sources of foreign exchange credit in Romania include:
13.         (i) Credit extended by foreign supgliers directly to Romanian
importers.  The total volume of such credits is not precisely known, as the
credit is not reported in banking statistics. However, it is reported in the
balance-of-payment statistics. Foreign suppliers provide credit to Romanian
importers from their own sources, i.e., in the form of inter-enterprise credit.
These are short-term credits; maturities rarely exceed five years and are
typically 18-30 months.   To cover their credit risk, suppliers may purchase
credit insurance in their home countries.
14.         (ii) Credit by foreign sumnlier's bank to Romanian importers.  This
arrangement typically includes the RBFT as a provider of an irrevocable payment
guarantee for Romanian importers.   The RBFT typically asks for irrevocable
counter-guarantee by the Romanian importer's local bank. A Romanian importer is
typically asked to deposit cash collateral of 120 percent of the guarantee
amount, expressed in lei, at the prevailing exchange rate. Rather than seeking
guarantees from Romanian banks, a foreign supplier's bank may seek a guarantee
from government-owned foreign credit insurance agency in the supplier's domicile
(e.g., EXIMBANK in US, COFACE in France, HERMES in Germany, SACE in Italy, ERG
in Switzerland, etc.).  The availability and cost of such guarantees vary and the
fees may or may not be market-based..  If the cost of a guarantee is at below-
market rates, then the total amount is typically authorized by governments (or
sometimes Parliaments) of respective countries.  In some cases, guaranteec are
available only for specific sectors or purchases.



- 81 -                                ANNEX
Page 5 of 6
15.         (iii) Credit lines opened by various Foreign ExDort Credit Agencies
to stimulate exports from their countries to Romania.  The credit lines are
normally intermediated by the RBFT, due to its long-standing business
relationships and a good reputation abroad. Utilization of these credit lines
may require an RBFT guarantee, and the RBFT may ask for a counter guarantee from
the Romanian importer's local bank.
16.         These credits are typically extended with maturities of up to five
years, with six months to one year grace periods.   Credits are delivered to
Roman.an banks at fixed interest rates; the RBFT reports that the rates
negotiated in early 1994 were 5.63 percent for US dollar credit lines; 6.21
percent for DM credit lines; 5.37 to 6.125 percent for SF credit lines; and 7.97
percent for FF credit lines. Interest rates on credits to final borrowers are
established by taking this basis and adding a margin which covers the
intermediation cost and risk of a Romanian bank, plus a profit margin.
(b) Foreign Exchange Credit Market Volume
17.         The total size of the foreign exchange credit market in Romania is
small, relative to the domestic credit market size and also relative to the size
of Romanian economy (Table A6.3).   In the 1989-1991 period, the market has
substantially contracted in absolute terms. The contraction was parallel to that
of the domestic credit market. In 1992, against the continued contraction of the
domestic credit market, the foreign exchange credit market started to recover.
Its size increased by 44 percent in dollar terms, and its share in the total
credit volume increased from 3.3 to 11 percent.   The growth of the foreign
exchange credit market continued in 1993; its share in the total credit increased
to 20 percent and the market volume increased by about 45 percent in dollar terms
and by almost four times in the domestic currency terms.
Table A6.3: Non-Government Foreign Exchange Credit Market
Volume       FX Credit as X
(milile1)   (Il1U.SS      Total NG Credit
1989             20,309     846                   4.0
1990             23,100     385                   3.8
1991             57,915     322                   4.4
1992            213,554     464                  11.0
1993            841.764     673.41               20.0
Source:   NBR.
Note:  Note that the foreign guarantee progr  do not appear in the statistics.
18.         The foreign exchange credit market growth did not realize its full
potential.  In 1993, of about US$900 million foreign export credit lines and
guarantee programs available, only about 70 percent has been committed. Less



- 82 -                              ANNX 6
Page 6 of 6
than half of this amount has actually been utilized.  There Is a number of
possible reasons for the low utilization:
- The total cost of financing, including credit and associated guarantees
and counter guarantees, is very high;
- The cost of goods, which could be financed througb these programs, is not
price competitive when compared to prices in international markets;
- Romanian importer may not be willing to switch from his normal supply
channels if he cannot be assured of long-term relationships (including
availability of financing) with a foreign supplier implied by the use of
particular foreign credit/guarantee facilities;
- Procurement management problem concerning higher value-added Romanian
exporters, who may need to import a number of items requiring
establishment of specific credit arrangements and the use of a number of
credit lines/guarantees for a number of suppliers from different
countries;
- Various limitations introduced by foreign creditors and/or guarantee
providers (e.g., limited to specific sectors or suppliers) or by Romanian
government policies (e.g., import license requirements on certain
products, or prohibitions to pay prices higher than international prices).
- The RBFT acts as a hub of foreign governments' guarantee and export credit
programs in Romania. The RBFT intermediation capacity and/or business
decisions concerning the off-balance sheet foreign exchange rlsk exposure
act as an effective limit to utilization of these credit lines or
guarantee programs.



- 83 -                              A7
Page 1 of 1
ROMAIAZI
lNDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimted Disbursement Schedule of the Pronosed Loan
Egtimated Schedule
Cumulative
Calendar Year              Fiscal Year           Amount        Amount          Z of Total
and Semester               and Semester          -(US$ Million)--
1994    II                 FY95     I               15.0           15.0              8.6
1995     I                         II               38.0           53.0            30.3
1995   II                  FY96     I              42.0            95.0            54.3
1996     I                         II               19.0          114.0            65.1
1996    1                  FY97    I               20.0          134.0             76.6
1997     I                         II               15.0          149.0            85.0
1997   rI                  FY98    I                12.0          161.0            92.0
1998     1                         II                9.0         170.0             97.0
1998   II                  FY99     I                5.0         175.0            100.0
Note    Amouts rfe to en of period. D hih l_e of diburement durng the fit 18 monts Is due to: (i) the
wpom finu componetm (US70 Mion equM lent), whudi is aexcted to dbure USSIS, USS30 and USS2
milion. tecv*  i the    dtr se amneters after the loan becomtes eective; and (I the tedmica
sulsmncotnent, whd &s a twoyr pplm and minmed to disbumewith a seedule USS1-14
mnion   die Om four aesete  req"a*We. For the n of cradit (USS102 miion) the andard
disuremnt >prfil hor Romanis has ben used as bausL To refet the xpeaed dynenc of the Project
quaner 1820 in the sandrd dibunement table for Romama whid aornt for 6 pero" of the total credi
wwo added to quaner1s516.



-84 -                         ANNEXa8
Page 1 of 3
ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supnrvision Plan
Approximate Dates       Activity                 Expected Skill         Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                     Requirements           (Staff Weeks)
-. -.- -- --- . - -  .  - --- . . . . . -_  -.. -- . . -- . . . - . . ...-- -- - . . .  . -_ _
1/95               Supervision Mission                                      10
- Review accreditation of   Banking Specialist
PFIs                      Financial Specialist
- Review EFF arrangements    Disbursement Specialist
in TD/MOF                 Procurement Specialist
- Review PFI export and      Engineer
investment appraisal
arrangements
- Review TA for MOI
6/95               Supervision Mission                                      12
= Review credit pipelines    2 engineers
= Review appraisal           Financial Specialist
procedures                Economist
* Review TA to PFIs          Procurement/
- Review progress of         Disbursement SpecialLst
- consultancy studies
- Verify phase-out of
subsidized credits
- Conduct procurement/
disbursement seminar
- Review TA/TORs and
short 1Lst for Banks



- 85 -                           ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
Approximate Dates        Activity                  Expected Skill           Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                       Requirements             (Staff Weeks)
12/95               Supervision Mission                                             10
- Review export finance       Banking Specialist
appraisal, procurement,    Financial Specialist
disbursement               Engineer
- Confirm PFI eligibility    Economist
- Review TA for MOI/MOF/NBR/
SOF
- Review investment lending
pipeline, appraisal quality,
procurements/disbursements
6/96               Sugervision Mission                                             10
= Review macroeconomic        Banking Specialist
Developments               Economist
- Review business             Engineer
environment
- Assess Project
Implementation Results
- Review continuous PFI
eligibility
- Review benefits/risks
related to a choice of
single currency loan
Supervision Mission
12/96               - Review TA for MOI/NBR        Financial Specialist            6
6/97               - Review investment            Engineer                         6
6/98                  component                   Economist                       6
- Review export component
- Review EFF procedures
- Review procurements/
disbursements



- 86 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
Approximate Dates         Activity                   Expected Skill           Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                        Requirements              (Staff Weeks)
Supervision Kission
12/97
- Rev4.ew investment           Financial Specialist             6
component                   Engineer
- Review export component    Banking Specialist
- Review Procurements/
Disbursements
- Review continuous PFI
eligibility (Assess
continuous need for EFF)
12/98                Supervision Mission                                             6
- Review Special Accounts    Financial Specialist
- Review Procurements/         Economist
Disbursements
- Review outstanding issues
- Agree on Project closing
date
6/99                 Project Completion Report                                       8
Preparation of project         Engineer
completion report at           Financial Specialist
Headquarters                   Economist
Total Missions                 Total Staff Weeks
FY94       2                           22
FY95       2                           20
FY96       2                           12
FY97       2                           12
FY98       1                            6
PCR
80



- 87 -                          ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 1
ROQkWIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents in Project   e
1.   Mission Aide-Memoires and Back to Office Reports dated December 1991;
February, May, July and November 1992; August 1993; April 1994.
2.   Wood-Based Industry Study, Jaako Poyry, Sweden, September 1993.
3.   Romania Textile and Leather Industry Study, Rovetex, Switzlerland,
April 1994.
4.   Romania - Machine Building and Steel Sector Assessment, Back to Office
Report, April 8, 1992.
5.   Romania - Non-Ferrous Metal/Mining Sector Assessment, June ?O, 1992.
6.   Romania - Fertilizer Sector Assessment, June 1992.
7.   Romania - Petrochemical Sector Assessment, October 1992.
8.   Romania - Review of the Industrial Sector and Enterprise Reform: Main
Report; 6 Annexes; Attachments.
9.   Statistics Concerning Export Financing Demand, October 1992.
10.   Intermediate Report on SMEs, June 1992 and February 1994.
11.   Blueprint of Government Strategy to Promote PSD and SME Sector, CNS
Veneto, December 1991.
12.   Lazard trere - Strategy for Implementation of the Privatization Law (in
French), April 1992.
13.   Consultants Report - Summary of Bank Appraisal Results, December 1992
and July 1993.
14.   Survey of the Impact of Social and Economic Environment on Private
Sector Development in Romania, NAP, May 1992.
15.   Technical Assistance for organization and implementation of the SOF and
five POFs, Roland Berger, February 1993.
16.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance under the Industrial
Development Project.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24742
UKRAINE                                j
ROMAN IA
INDUSTRIAL
I  N<>  Ir ,  j-1RDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ri.o, G.,n
04                    EI,t g DW.I
0                                                                                                                 bnlin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wg Dik.- ~d Ri~., CoUW Wo,b
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~
ALAJ                                                                                  F-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Lr [.. High.Wo
~~~~~ ~~~Mnj.,Hig6oyA
* Nf1iOd C0pim1
-  hd-r-l B .. Endnd..
GALAT            (        UKR~AINE
CAAA R I AAC
onto ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ LE
B  1/1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC  9.



