Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22415-RO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-37350)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$175 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 28, 2001
Private and Financial Sectors Development Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 05/09/2001)
Currency Unit = Lei
Lei 1 = US$ 0.000035
US$ 1 = Lei 28,312
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AVAB                      Oficiul pentru Recuperarea Creantelor Bancare
EIB                       European Investment Bank
Exim Bank                 Export Import Bank of Romania
IDP                       Industrial Development Project
Bank                      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MOPF                      Ministry of Public Finance
NBR                       National Bank of Romania
PFI                       Participating Financial Institution
PSAL                      Private Sector Adjustment Loan
SFA                       Subsidiary Financial Agreement
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:   Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Marcelo J. Bueno



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
Industrial Development Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                      13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     17
9. Partner Comments                                                                    18
10. Additional Information                                                            30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008774                                        Project Name: Industrial Development
Team Leader: Marcelo J. Bueno                              TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Industrial Development                          L/C/TFNNumber: SCL-37350
CountrylDepartment: ROMANIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BP - Privatization; BR - Public Enterprise Reform;
DB - Business Environment; IR - Industrial
Restructuring
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/10/91                                 Effective: 09/01/94           07/17/95
Appraisal:  10/12/92                                  MTR:                        10/23/96
Approval:  05/19/94                                 Closing:  12/31/98           12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Government of Romania/MOF
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                              Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink                          Michael Wiehen
Sector Manager:      Paul Siegelbaum                            Fred Levy
Team Leader at ICR:   Marcelo J. Bueno                          Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic
ICR Primary Auithor:   Marilyn S. Manalo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrowver Peiformance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Preparation of the Industrial Development Project (IDP) commenced as the Romanian
Government continued to make progress in implementing its transition program from a



state-controlled economy towards a market economy following the 1989 revolution. A new legal
and institutional framework was established and the policy environment emphasized liberalization,
decentralization, competition, and market orientation. The commercialization and corporatization
of the state enterprise sector was initiated and continued to progress and small to medium-sized
state enterprises were being privatized. Labor retrenchment was the most prominent element of
the enterprise adjustment. Progress for this sector lagged also in the areas of access to capital,
raw materials, and infrastructure. Their adjustment to changing relative prices was slow, largely
reactive, and hindered by weak financial discipline. However, the changes in economic policies
were expected to deepen the adjustment already begun and to stimulate a more rapid positive
output response.
In the banking sector, reforms were initiated early in the transformation process. A two-tiered
banking system was established in 1990 and development in the banking sector was rapid. State
banks were commercialized and re-chartered as universal banks. New, private banks were being
established. However, market segmentation and concentration in deposits and loan markets were
still considerable. Romanian banks' capacity to assess, sustain, and manage risk was seriously
impaired by their weak institutional capacity and a lack of technical expertise. Proper loan
classification and provisioning, low levels of loan loss reserves, and appraising and pricing credit,
interest rate, and currency risks were problematic.
In defining their development strategy, the Government focussed on the promotion of efficient
private enterprises, the continuation of the privatization program, and the development of a
healthy, efficient and market-oriented financial sector. The Government supported export
development and integration of the Romanian economy into the international financial and goods
markets as key elements to a successful transformation and to achieving sustainable growth. To
this end, the Government opened entry to the trade sector, liberalized foreign trade, unified and
simplified the tariff regime, practically removed exchange controls on current account
transactions, and started to manage exchange rates through market mechanisms. However, the
supply response to new incentives and opportunities remained slower than expected. To change
this, the Government decided that their development program  would  focus on:   (i)
macroeconomic stabilization as a pre-requisite for the success of the reform program, (ii)
acceleration of the transformation of enterprise ownership, and (iii) rationalization of productive
sectors to make them efficient and internationally competitive.
In support of the Government's strategy, the IDP was designed with the following project
objectives: (i) to promote the growth of the private sector and create conditions for increases in
investments and an effective supply response from viable private industrial enterprises; (ii) to
advance structural transformation of the enterprise sector through privatization and restructuring;
and (iii) to facilitate the transformation of credit markets and the introduction of safe and sound
banking practices. These objectives were clear and responsive to the country's conditions and the
Government's development objectives. The project objectives were also consistent with the
Bank's priorities and strategy which aimed to: (i) facilitate and support the country's structural
reform and its transformation to a market economy; (ii) help establish Romania's
creditworthiness; (iii) support sectoral adjustment and development efforts; and (iv) help mobilize
resources from private and other donor sources.
-2 -



As designed, however, the project was difficult to implement for the apex agency, the
participating financial institutions (PFIs), and the private sub-borrowers. The apex agency and
PFIs had little capacity to appraise projects; potential sub-borrowers did not know how to prepare
and apply for longer term investment credits. The expertise required by the banking sector was to
be developed with funding resources under the technical assistance component. However, no
capacity building support was extended to private enterprises, the potential sub-borrowers. While
it was known when the project was prepared that the existing business environment and
institutional framework did not allow private enterprises to utilize their full potential, necessary
capacity building support for them was largely left to the Government to provide eventually or
with other limited donor support. Private enterprises would find it very difficult to thrive in an
environment that was undergoing major economic, regulatory, and institutional adjustments.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Conmponents:
The project objectives were expected to be achieved through assistance focused on two
components: the Finance Component and a Technical Assistance Component for the banking
sector.
Finance Component. A total of US$172 million was allocated to this component, designed to
finance the investment requirements of private enterprises (US$102 million) and pre-shipment
finance requirements of exporters (US$70 million). Resources were to be on-lent by the
Government, represented by the Ministry of Public Finance (MOPF). Utilizing an apex
arrangement, the MOPF was to pass funds, through PFIs, as loans to eligible sub-borrowers in the
context of broader restructuring programs. The apex agency (Export Import Bank of Romania
(Eximbank), appointed by the MOPF) was required (under an Agency Agreement) to: (i)
provide the subsidiary loans to the PFIs (under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement); (ii) collect
repayments from PFIs and maintain the revolving fund facility; and (iii) monitor the overall
execution of the project components and meet all the reporting requirements of the project.
Access to the project funds was kept open to PFIs accredited by the National Bank of Romania
(NBR), certified by the MOPF, and agreed by the Bank. Eligibility of PFIs was based on their:
(i) compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; (ii)
adherence to investment and lending policies and procedures acceptable to NBR and the Bank
especially concerning loan classification and provisioning, project appraisal, performing and
non-performing loans, and collection ratios; (iii) maintenance of a satisfactory financial structure
determined by risk-based capital adequacy criteria satisfactory to the Bank; (iv) establishment of a
credit committee, management, a technical unit, staff, procedures, and resources required to
operate the Finance Component; (v) compliance with the financing and 6perational conditions of
the Finance Component; (vi) agreement to undertake external audits on their financial operations
-3 -



and implement the auditor's recommendations; and (vii) provision of periodic reports on the
portfolio financed by the Project. Resources available to PFIs were provided at a reference rate
based on the prevailing six-month LIBOR rate plus a market-based spread to cover the
administrative costs of the apex agency. Subsidiary loans were to be provided on a first-come,
first-served basis and repaid in conformity with the amortization schedule applicable to the PFI
sub-loans to sub-borrowers. These sub-loans were denominated in US dollars under the Bank's
Single Currency Loan pilot program.
PFIs would make available to enterprises investment funds based on eligibility criteria including
that the enterprise: (i) was established under Law No. 31 on Business Companies; (ii) adopted a
business plan that included a restructuring program designed to provide for its long-term financial
and operational success; (iii) was a private enterprise or to be privatized by the State Ownership
Fund within a year of the sub-loan; (iv) was economically, financially, and commercially viable;
(v) met appropriate health, safety, and environmental standards and was approved by the Ministry
of Environment; and (vi) had economic and financial rates of return on the sub-project of at least
15 percent. The maximum loan size for investment loans was set at U$8 million with maturity
periods up to 17 years. Lending rates were variable and based on the reference rate plus a
market-determined margin set by the PFI. PFIs were to assume the full credit risk while the
sub-borrowers assumed the foreign exchange risk and the interest rate risk for the term loans.
Funds were also available for export finance. These resources were available to exporters that:
(i) possessed an irrevocable letter of credit in convertible currency issued by a creditworthy
financial institution or a confirmed purchase order issued by a foreign buyer; (ii) had relevant
export experience to the transaction for which export finance was sought; and (iii) provided
positive value added for the export product based on international reference prices. The
maximum loan size was set at US$5 million and maturities for these sub-loans were up to one
year. The interest rate on these sub-loans was fixed and was based on the reference rate plus a
market-based spread determined by the PFI. PFIs were to assume the full credit risk and
beneficiaries the foreign exchange risk.
The project was designed also to provide for the capitalization of a revolving fund from the
repayments of the investment and export finance loans. The revolving fund was to be managed by
the Eximbank, which was to recycle these funds through other investment and export finance
loans to their own clients, who met the same eligibility criteria established under this project.
Technical Assistance Component.  This component was developed to support policy
formulation and institutional capacity building in the areas of privatization, enterprise
restructuring, and banking. A total of US$3 million was originally allocated to support: (i) the
Ministry of Industry's program to: (a) develop restructuring and privatization strategies for the
industrial sector; (b) formulate a strategy for the development of an industrial technology
infrastructure; and (c) upgrade its office equipment and strengthen its capacity to carry out
environmental assessments and develop industrial policies and strategies; and (ii) the NBR's
program to: (a) develop and implement a suitable chart of accounts for commercial banks; (b)
establish and strengthen internal controls and auditing practices of commercial banks; (c) train
commercial banks' staff in risk assessment and asset and liability management policies; and (d)
- 4 -



train staff of PFIs in project appraisal, export finance, and investment lending.
The project components were reasonably expected to contribute to achieving the project
objectives as indicated above. In addition, the Finance Component provided the necessary
framework for the Government and the Bank to maintain their dialogue on the development of the
banking sector during periods of political and economic transition. Also, it was to address
concerns of foreign investors interested in committing equity capital in Romanian industries but
discouraged by insufficient funding resources for post-privatization restructuring.  Lessons
learned in the financial sector were incorporated in the project design. Measures were adequately
incorporated to address PFI governance and management issues, financial policies, appraisal and
supervision techniques, and credit risk management policies. However, incorporating into the
project broader technical support that addressed constraints in the business environment and the
private sector's institutional, operational, and export capacity building requirements would have
maximized the effectiveness of the privatization process and promoted the development of a more
robust private sector.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised. However, under the Technical Assistance Component,
support to the Ministry of Industry was dropped when effectiveness of the project was delayed
and alternate donor financing became available for the purposes intended. Also, after the
mid-term review, the initial emphasis under the Finance Component on the export industry was
subsequently amended to include support for industry in general. More flexibility in the use of the
proceeds of the line of credit was introduced as micro-, small- and medium-scale enterprises were
allowed to participate in the project. These revisions did not amount to a restructuring of the IDP
and were not considered major adjustments requiring approval or reporting to the Executive
Directors.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was designed before the introduction of the Bank's Quality Assurance Group's
(QAG) review; thus a quality at entry evaluation by QAG was not done. Nonetheless, the
project's quality at entry is satisfactory for the ICR. As designed, the project was consistent with
the Government's objectives and the Bank's country assistance strategy.  Considering the
financial constraints faced by exporters, the balance of payment difficulties faced by Government,
and imperfections in the foreign exchange credit markets, the original project components were
reasonably expected to contribute to achieving the project's objectives. Eligibility requirements
under the project focused on the development of a sound, effective, and market-oriented financial
sector. With the provision of financial resources to the private sector, the project emphasized the
empowerment of the private sector as the engine for development and growth. It also highlighted
the importance of increasing their ability to respond to new incentives and opportunities and to
expand the supply response.
In addition to incorporating lessons learned and risk mitigating measures, significant upstream
work was accomplished prior to and at the preparation stage of the project. For the financial
- 5-



sector, these included: (i) the introduction of rules for risk-based capital adequacy; (ii) rules on
asset classification and provision; and (iii) increase in (tax deductible) general loan loss reserves to
a level commensurate with the financial risks inherent in the business environment. Also, as the
project was directly linked to the country's privatization program, upstream work included,
among others:  (i) streamlining the privatization structure and enhancing the privatization
decision-making process; (ii) making the necessary amendments to Law 31, which provides the
regulatory framework for the establishment and management of commercial companies; (iii)
enactment of the State Ownership Fund by-laws, establishment of its Board of Directors and staff
to enable it to implement its mandate to sell its portfolio of shares or liquidate enterprises; (iv)
approval of the 1993 Privatization Program; (v) finalization of the Privatization Ownership Fund,
their registration and portfolio allocations, and establishment of their Boards of Directors; (vi)
establishment of the procedures of the National Agency for Privatization, the agency charged with
the privatization of small companies; and (vii) the establishment of a Small and Medium
Enterprise Credit Guarantee Fund. These steps were conditions of either negotiations,
presentation to the Bank's Board of Directors, or loan effectiveness.
The positive elements described above notwithstanding, the original risk assessment did not
adequately take into account either the financial conditions or time constraints to meet the
eligibility requirements for new banks to be accredited as PFIs. Also, there did not seem to be a
full appreciation of the magnitude of the hurdles the newly privatized enterprises had to face both
in their external and internal environments to be eligible sub-borrowers. The large allocation for
the Finance Component thus reflected an over-estimation of the absorptive capacity of PFIs and
private enterprises for financial resources. This was further exacerbated by the availability of
another loan facility, a European Investment Bank (EIB) loan (ECU 30 million). The EIB loan
was intended to provide additional resources to finance investment requirements of private
enterprises.
Furthermore, the designers of the project provided a very limited response to the country's
c*ircumstances when they focussed only on one problem faced by private enterprises, i.e. access to
credit. No assistance was extended to enable the productive sector to increase their efficiency and
competitiveness and, thereby, increase their ability to access credit and to improve their debt
service capacity. There was need for a broader technical assistance package that reflected a
recognition that newly privatized Romanian enterprises: (i) were unfamiliar with the transitional
requirements from operating in a stagnant economy with pervasive controls and changing to one
that adopted a market and growth orientation; (ii) required institutional support; and (iii) had to
contend with numerous obstacles in the business environment that hindered their growth and
development. By complementing the line of credit, such technical assistance could have: (i)
increased the private sector's potential to participate in the finance component and thereby
increase PFI's client base; (ii) mitigated some of the risks banks were unwilling to take in order to
extend their lending terms and to ensure non-performing assets were kept to a minimum; (iii)
increased the positive results of the privatization process and demonstrated the importance of the
role SMEs play in absorbing excess labor cast off from restructured or liquidated state enterprises;
and (iv) improved the performance and impact of the project. Relying on the Government to fill
these gaps when there were heavy and competing demands on their fiscal and external resources
was unrealistic. This approach minimized the opportunities that would have otherwise been
- 6 -



available to the private sector under the project.
Finally, the performance indicators to measure satisfactory implementation (by January 1996, the
closing date for committing funds) put emphasis on commitment and disbursement of finds and
the number of PFIs rather than on indicators that would guide implementing agencies to achieve
the project objectives. Other indicators, including the repayment performance of sub-borrowers,
contribution of this project to the non-performing portfolio of PFIs, increases in term lending
activities by PFIs utilizing their own resources, increased export capacity of sub-borrowers,
employment creation, and, increases in the number of newly privatized enterprises accessing term
and export finance would have provided relevant information on project performance.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objectives of the project were satisfactorily achieved. This assessment is based on the
following factors: (i) satisfactory outcome and achievements under the Finance Component, as
summarized below; (ii) satisfactory capacity building achievements in the banking sector; and (iii)
commitment of the Government to sound financial sector and banking policies.
The financial resources available under the project provided private enterprises the necessary
short-term, working capital, pre-shipment resources and term funds to upgrade their technical,
financial, production, marketing, and general management capacity. Majority of the enterprises
assisted under the project continue to operate and export their products. However, in reviewing
the repayment performance of sub-borrowers, it is clear that some PFIs experienced difficulties in
their IDP portfolios as some enterprises continued to face operational difficulties and were remiss
in servicing their debt. Despite this performance, Eximbank did not monitor the repayment
performance of sub-borrowers since they saw this as the responsibility of PFIs and repayment
performance of PFIs to Eximbank had been regular. The PFIs monitor the repayment performance
of sub-borrowers under this project along with other borrowers in their overall lending portfolio.
In line with sound banking principles, PFIs realize the importance of continuing to adopt
appropriate policies for asset classification and loss provisions on their portfolios at risk. PFIs
confirmed their continued interest to support exporters and SMEs though their ability to provide
term loans utilizing their own resources is still limited. Annual updates on bank accreditations
provided an opportunity to assess PFIs' capacity to meet banking standards on operations,
management, credit and risk management, quality of loan portfolios, and financial standing (see
Institutional Capacity Building section below). Also, the project provided the Bank and the
Government a significant vehicle  for financial sector strengthening.   During project
implementation, additional value added services and technical assistance were delivered (with
support under the Bank-financed Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL)) to NBR to improve its
legal, supervision and regulatory oversight.
Although the project's performance indicators do not serve as good criteria for judging the
achievement of the project objectives, as measured against those indicators, the performance of
the project was unsatisfactory.  The project did not meet the targets on commitments,
- 7 -



disbursements, and the lending pipeline by January 1996 because project effectiveness was
delayed by almost a year. Contributing factors to this delay included the late signing of the SFAs,
delays in operationalizing the SFAs, and delays in accrediting PFIs and obtaining sub-borrowers
because of insufficient available information to qualify them. Nevertheless, the satisfactory rating
for project impact and achievements is maintained for the reasons summarized in the paragraph
above and the significant financial assistance to banks and enterprises even at a reduced level of
disbursements of project funds.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Finance Component. The objectives of this component were satisfactorily achieved. Eximbank
served as the apex agency and channeled funds to eligible PFIs for on-lending to eligible
sub-borrowers in various sectors and areas of the country under both the investment fund and the
export finance fund. NBR accredited 13 banks and eight banks participated under the investment
fund. These PFIs financed 74 investment loans to 55 enterprises totaling approximately US$80.4
million. The distribution of these sub-projects included: (i) by sector: financial services, 28
percent; wood industry, 19 percent; textile and clothing, 16 percent; miscellaneous services, 16
percent; miscellaneous industries, 14 percent; and agro processing, 7 percent; and (ii) by
geographical location: Muntenia, 49 percent; Transylvania, 28 percent; Moldova, 16 percent;
other areas, 7 percent. All the beneficiary enterprises were private entities except for two
enterprises that were in the process of being privatized,  The changes in the financial sector
affected the lending portfolio of this project.   Some enterprises in the active portfolio of
Bancorex were assumed by the Romanian Commercial Bank (RCB) when Bancorex exited from
the banking system  and merged with the RCB.  Appropriate steps were taken for its
non-performing portfolio. The loans (five) not selected to be retained by RCB were transferred to
Oficiul pentru Recuperarea Creantelor Bancare (AVAB), the non-performing assets recovery
agency. Based on data provided by Eximbank on the outstanding loan balances, as at about
end-March 2001, this totaled approximately US$22 million. Also, when Bankcoop went bankrupt
and closed, the MOPF assumed the credit risk for five of its sub-borrowers; Eximbank's data on
the total loan outstanding for these enterprises amounted to approximately US$1.1 million. In
addition, some PFIs have been experiencing losses as some sub-borrowers were having difficulties
in meeting their debt service obligations. The outstanding balances to Eximbank for six loans that
PFIs have classified doubtful and loss amount to about $6.7 million at about end-March 2001.
PFIs confirmed that they are sufficiently provisioning for these loans.
For the export finance sub-component, five PFIs utilized approximately $12.4 million to finance
the short-term, export finance requirements of 23 enterprises. The distribution of these
sub-projects included: (i) by sector: chemical industry, 27 percent; agro processing, 12 percent;
wood industry, 12 percent; trade, 12 percent; and other industries, 37 percent; and (ii) by
geographic location: Moldova, 59 percent; Transylvania, 35 percent; other areas, 6 percent.
Sub-borrowers' repayment performance was good under this sub-component; only one loan was
classified as a loss (from Bankcoop; Bankcoop subsequently assumed the credit risk and repaid
the loan). Five (22 percent) beneficiary enterprises are in the process of being privatized.
Eximbank received approximately $33 million in repayments from PFIs (by about end-March
- 8 -



2001). Utilizing these to capitalize the revolving fund, Eximbank has re-lent approximately $11.3
million to 29 enterprises based on this project's original sub-project eligibility criteria. Of these
loans, three (10 percent) loans have been classified as loss as of end-March 2001; the loan
outstanding amount was about US$786,675. Eximbank confirmed it has been monitoring these
loans, taking the necessary collection steps, and provisioning against these arrears.
Technical Assistance Component. A total of US$ 4.1 million was utilized by three PFIs and
Eximbank to meet their technology (computer hardware and software) requirements. While this
was not the primary intention of the component for the banking sector (see description above),
some PFIs and the MOPF were reluctant to borrow funds for skills building purposes particularly
when other grant funding was available to meet this need.
4.3 Net Present Valute/Econontic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of retnrn:
Not applicable.
4.5 Instituition7al development impact:
As indicated earlier, significant assistance to strengthen the financial sector was provided under
this project. The annual bank accreditation process provided a fonum for dialogue on financial
sectoral reforms. Other reforms in the banking sector which affected project implementation
included the requirement for year-end bank audits following international accounting standards
and the tightening of prudential regulations through the introduction of stricter loss provisioning
and risk-weighted capital adequacy requirements. The project also provided PFIs an incentive to
comply with prudential standards to be eligible not only to participate in the project but also to be
recognized as a viable institution by the banking community. They confirmed that their
experience with term lending under the project provided them an opportunity to be familiar with
additional appraisal techniques for investment proposals beyond assessing collateral availability.
As for the apex agency, Eximbank, it developed its banking functions and successfully carried out
its responsibilities as the apex organization. It continues to effectively collect repayments from
PFIs, maintain and lend from the revolving fund facility, repay the Bank loan, and monitor the
overall execution of the component.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors ouitside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was prepared amidst expectations that the transformation process to private
ownership would accelerate and that access to financial resources would enable private small-,
medium- and large-size enterprises to substantially contribute to increased exports. However, the
privatization process was delayed. During the years of state control, Romanian nationals were
adversely affected in their ability to accumulate financial assets necessary to acquire or revitalize
-9-



recently acquired state-owned assets, to implement their projects as planned, or to thwart
problems of insufficient working capital. In addition, the over-leveraged positions of clients with
good projects prevented them from meeting the lending criteria of PFIs, including equity
contributions and some PFI's continued high collateral requirements (as much as 150 percent of
loan requirements). Also, firms were reluctant to take on new investment and debt when the
macroeconomic conditions and the industrial sector environment were very volatile. Furthermore,
the additional transaction cost resulting from currency mismatch issues, with IDP loans being
denominated in US dollars and their export earnings in other European currencies, caused
problems or served as a deterrent to actual or potential sub-borrowers to use IDP funds. Finally,
the business environment did not facilitate the development of private enterprises and SMEs as
little assistance was available to enable them to more easily overcome major hurdles in their
external environment. Private firms, often armed with insufficient information, had to adjust to
new tax policies, reforms on secured interest in personal property, bankruptcy laws, and new
accounting and audit requirements.
From the perspective of the banking sector, the IDP funds were utilized by PFIs when it met their
client's requirements in terms of loan size, longer term maturity periods, and untied procurement
features. The fact that PFIs had no commitment fee obligations under the IDP was an added
positive feature for them. However, the implementation of the project was affected by a number
of other factors, including project start-up delays as apex arrangements and concerns on payment
of commitment fees to the Bank had to be resolved. Also, few banks met the IDP eligibility
criteria to participate. The larger, state banks had problems with deteriorating loan portfolios
while many smaller, private banks were still in their early years of development. Staff of PFIs had
to undergo training in project appraisal and credit and risk management before they could start
lending project funds. Implementation was further delayed when resolution of issues concerning
credit risk, the utilization of loan funds, or procurement were protracted. Moreover, the
utilization of the line of credit was affected by PFIs' lack of interest in broadening their client base
to SMEs when Government absorbed available bank liquidity and there still was strong demand
for financial assistance from larger enterprises with foreign partners and green field projects.
Furthermore, other PFIs attracted other donor resources and entered into implementation
arrangements, which provided them with stronger incentives (subsidized interest rates,
commitment fee obligations) to utilize those funds rather than the IDP resources. Under the
Technical Assistance Component, implementation was affected by the fact that many banks were
reluctant to borrow for capacity building purposes in the area of credit appraisal and SME
marketing; they preferred utilizing grants for these purposes. In reality, however, some donors
were less ready to fund banking advisors.
The flaws in the project design and the belated steps to adjust them also affected the realization of
the project objectives on a broader scale. When the following features of the project were
modified by the Bank in response to the requests made by the Government and Eximbank,
implementation improved and the impact of the project increased. Key changes were the: (i)
transfer of the apex institution from the Treasury Department, MOPF to the Eximbank; (ii)
modification to the thresholds for the procurement methods for goods and to the Bank review
requirements on procurement decisions; (iii) streamlined loan origination and administration
procedures for PFIs and Eximbank (through higher free limits on loans not subject to Bank
- 1 0 -



review); (iv) expansion of the eligibility criteria to include (a) private micro, small- and
medium-sized enterprises, and individual registered juridical persons, and (b) financing of local
inputs to complete the production of goods for export; and (v) extensions of the loan commitment
date, the project completion date, and the project closing date to provide additional time to
implement the project. However, given the prevailing economic conditions, these measures
proved insufficient to realize the full utilization of the project funds. The over-estimation in
project size proved to be very expensive for the Government, who had to pay commitment fees on
the undisbursed balance (which put Eximbank, who had to cover these fees, in a difficult position
during the first years of project implementation). Approximately US$96.9 million was disbursed;
the balance of the loan was cancelled. Finally, PFIs and exporters also confirmed that while the
loan appraisal documentation and procedures imposed by the Bank enabled them to develop a
better understanding of term lending appraisal techniques and their business requirements,
compliance with this requirement was laborious and, at times, discouraged PFIs and exporters
from utilizing the project funds.
5.2 Factors generally subject to governnment control:
The Government's decision to transfer the apex responsibility to Eximbank and its resolution of
conflicts related to implementation procedures and the assumption of credit risk led to the
conducive and supportive relationships between the MOPF, Eximbank and PFIs. However,
several key factors subject to the Government's control negatively affected the implementation of
the project.
The project was executed when Romania's macroeconomic and business environment were very
volatile (see Table below). Although Romania's economy grew from 1993-1996, this was largely
financed by high inflation, foreign borrowings, direct subsidies to favored, loss-making enterprises
and agriculture, and arrears or non-payment of loans to the banking sector. By 1997-1998, these
factors and macroeconomic and structural weaknesses led to the contraction of the economy by
16 percent over the previous three years.  The privatization, restructuring, or closure of
loss-making entities in agriculture, industry, and among state-owned banks was postponed.
Increasingly, external repayment obligations mounted, balance of payments became unstable, and
inflationary pressures, currency mismatches and devaluations, and the deteriorating loan portfolios
in the banking sector were building up. These conditions along with a volatile business
environment contributed to a zero net creation of new enterprises from 1995 through 1999. The
new, private sector was not large enough to provide the necessary revenues to the Government
and its growth was stagnant. Following a Government reshuffle in the fall of 1998 and their
realization that the economic situation was unsustainable, the Government initiated structural
reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors. Adjustment lending resumed with the Bank and
the IMF and reforms centered on strengthening the banking system and invigorating the stalled
process of enterprise divestiture.
Other policy, regulatory, and institutional obstacles curtailed the development of the private
sector and are now being reformed by the Government. These include: (i) the lack of collateral
legislation and registries of pledged property, (ii) ineffective legal and judiciary framework which
does not guarantee easy exit of non-viable firms and subsequent recycling of their assets and
- 1 1 -



enforcement of ownership rights, creditor claims and contracts; (iii) constraints to leasing; (iv)
poor tax administrations to improve tax collection and ultimately reduce the level of taxation,
create a level playing field, alleviate corruption and tax harassment, lower cost of complying with
tax regulations; and (v) overall unfavorable environment of cumbersome procedures (on company
and tax registration, foreign exchange, property rights, employment, land and site development,
customs and international trade, etc.) applied by a generally non-supportive public administration.
Table: Economic Indicators
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999      2000
(Projected)
GDP (US$ million at current prices)               35      35       35      41      34        35
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)      1,240   1I,410 I1460    1,420   1,390   1,460      1 ,512
GDP growth rate (%, calculated
from 1993 prices)                      3.9      7.1     3.9    -6.6    -5.4    -3.2        2.2
Exports (% of GDP)                        25      28      28       29      24      30        29
Exports (goods and nonfactor
services, US$ million)               7,195   9,404   9,648   9.955   9.519   9,870    12,239
Imports (goods and nonfactor                                                 I
services, US$ million)               7,777  11.306  12,503  12,349  12 79      ,381    142
,Resource balance                        -582, -1,902           -2,394   -279       I I    -73
lConsumer price index (% change)    1  139.0    35.3    44.6   146.7    55.0    46.4        41.0
5.3 Factors generallv subject to implemnenting agency control:
Eximbank  appointed  well trained  and  experienced  staff to  implement the project.   The
management and staff effectively managed the finance and technical assistance components and
provided a supportive environment for PFIs to obtain the financial resources for their on lending
and technology development requirements. They effectively coordinated with PFIs on the project
reporting requirements. Also, the audit reports for the project were submitted on time and
received unqualified opinions. A drawback to the choice of Eximbank as the apex agency was
that it was located only in Bucharest making it less than conducive for branches of PFIs to make
inquiries and submit loan applications.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Differences between the projected and the estimated final total project cost and financing were
primarily due to the: (i) higher demand for the longer-term investment funds than projected (by
about 14 percent); (ii) the ability of PFIs to meet the short-term export finance requirements from
their own resources or other lines of credit; (iii) additional resources allocated for technology
development in three PFIs and Eximbank (an increase of about 74 percent); and (iv) cancellation
of about US$72 million of unutilized project funds, at the request of Government. About US$96
million of Bank funds was disbursed for this project.
- 12 -



6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale for sustain?ability rating:
The sustainability of the project achievements is likely. While capacity building achievements in
the financial and banking sectors are likely to be sustained, this is a long-term process that
requires intensive work and sustained commitment from key players. The Government's
development strategy focuses on policies that support macroeconomic stability and the
development of a business environment conducive to private investment and export growth. In
the financial sector, major steps have been taken to restructure state banks, strengthen the legal
and regulatory framework for banking, develop the banking and capital market infrastructure, and
decrease the flow of funds to non-viable enterprises. The incentive structure has improved, NBR'
s supervision department has been strengthened, prudential regulations conform with the Basle
Committee's core principle, banks are adopting international accounting standards, and a basic
framework for asset resolution has been established. Armed with the building blocks for a
competitive and efficient financial system, PFIs and Eximbank have increased their capacity to
effectively implement their credit management and risk assessment policies and procedures and to
intermediate financial resources.
The development and growth of some of the private enterprises that effectively utilized the line of
credit is also likely to be sustainable. The sustainability of their achievements is dependent on a
stable macroeconomic environment, the development of a favorable business climate, a stronger
and broader financial system, and the rapid development of indigenous managerial, financial and
technical skills.
The sustainability of the achievements in the financial, banking, and private sectors will be
strengthened by the implementation of the Rural Finance Project and a proposed follow-on
operation to the PSAL I Project, both Bank-financed.
6.2 Transition? arrangement to regular operations:
The sustainability of the achievements under the project will depend on PFIs' carefully
implementing their credit management policies and procedures and NBR closely supervising them.
To prevent a high level of default on sub-loans and the adverse effects on the financial system,
NBR will continue to take the necessary steps to monitor PFIs conformity with prudential
regulations. While sub-loans are outstanding, PFIs will continue to monitor the performance of
the sub-borrowers and to make timely repayments to Eximbank. Eximbank will continue to
supervise the implementation of the project, monitor the repayment performance of PFIs, ensure
the safe investment and recycling of the loanable funds, and make resources available to repay the
Bank loan.
The development of the private sector, the growth of efficient supply response, and the
sustainability of the banking sector's support in these areas are contingent upon macroeconomic
stability and the elimination of obstacles in the business environment that impede private
investment and export growth. The Bank and the Government will be addressing these obstacles
- 13 -



under two operations: the Rural Finance Project and a proposed PSAL II Project. The Rural
Finance Project seeks to promote economic growth and reduce poverty in rural Romania through
the provision of financial services. Under this on-going operation, assistance will be provided to:
(i) accelerate the economic transformation of the rural economy by increasing the flow of
investment capital to the sector; (ii) augment the role of the private sector in the rural economy;
(iii) alleviate rural poverty by financing farm and off-farm investments for poor segments of the
rural population which currently has no access to credit; and (iv) improve the legal and
institutional environment for financial transactions to reduce the costs and risks assumed by
lenders when allocating rural credit.  Relevant (to IDP's objectives and achievements)
performance indicators under this project include: (i) increases in the amount of long-term
financing granted to private enterprises; (ii) increases in the amount of credit allocated by the
financial sector to rural clients; (iii) increased presence of private banks in the rural areas; and (iv)
high levels of repayment for all PFIs.
The Government is preparing together with the Bank, a proposed follow-on operation to the
PSAL I Project. The proposed PSAL II Project will aim to: (i) support the exit of public banks
in the Romanian banking system from government ownership through privatization and other
options acceptable to the Bank; (ii) further strengthen the overall environment for private
sector-based banking and financial sector modernization; (iii) divest the largest public sector'
industrial and commercial loss-makers from the Government portfolio; (iv) improve the legal and
regulatory framework for financial and private sector development in support of increased
investment and sustainable levels of financial intermediation; and (v) strengthen the business
environment by removing administrative, tax, and other barriers that impede investment and
growth.  Performance indicators under the proposed PSAL II would include: (i) further
restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks; (ii) reduced level of non-performing assets
in banks; (iii) increased number of newly privatized and newly registered, private enterprises; (iv)
increases in employment generation from the SME sector; and (v) efficient bankruptcy
procedures.
Cognizant of the importance of SMEs as economic agents that: (i) create wealth; (ii) absorb
excess labor from restructured or liquidated state enterprises and reduce poverty; (iii) foster
regional development and reduce economic disequilibrium among regions; (iv) build up a new
entrepreneurial culture; and (v) develop a middle class as a factor of social and political stability,
the Bank and the Government will continue its dialogue on supporting the need to sustain the
development of SMEs (including micro enterprises) including access to: (i) funds for their
investment and working capital requirements, and (ii) assistance to upgrade their technical
know-how and to link them up with foreign investors, business partners, and external markets.
Such a dialogue will also address PFIs' request for continued support in providing medium- to
long-term funds and in developing a broader client base through SMEs. On-going dialogue
would include the following aspects:
*     Institutional Capacity Building to: (a) enhance the capabilities of private and public
institutions to deliver business support services; and (b) support Government agencies in their
transformation process from maintaining control functions to providing business facilitation and
promotion services.  This could include improving their capability to identify and ease
- 14-



bureaucratic rigidities, developing a forum for dialogue with the private sector, and reforming
policies and regulations that address collateral legislation and registries of pledged property,
enforcement of ownership rights, creditor claims and contracts, and tax administration.
*     Finance to support the development of lending instruments for SMEs and perhaps even
smaller, first-time bank borrowers; institution building activities for banks on credit risk
assessment and SME lending methodologies; and technology upgrades for banks.
*     Business Advisory Support, run by entrepreneurs, that would facilitate (a) supply linkages
between Romanian supplier firms and joint-venture or foreign-owned firms; (b) the process of
re-orienting local supplier firms to the international standards of performance expected by such
purchaser firms, to an understanding of market forces and adapting production to cater to market
demand (on standards, testing and quality control, for example); and (c) the risk-taking attitudes
that private sector, commercial activity requires. An array of services could be discussed such as
consulting and training on a demand-driven basis, business incubators, business information
bureaus, business clubs, specific advisory support in areas such as export, technology acquisition,
ISO standard certification, and linkages with investors, business partners, suppliers, and markets.
The need to provide these services on a cost-sharing basis would have to be explored.
3     Regional Business and Sector Support Initiatives.  The Regional Business Support
Initiative would stimulate broad-based economic and private sector growth in selected regions
and districts. Such support could be designed to build and strengthen geographically-focused
member-based business organizations, motivated by a shared vision of developing the local
economy and engaged in a common program  of action for realizing that vision.  The
Sector-Specific Initiative would broaden and sustain the base of private sector participation in
continuing economic growth by developing networks of buyers, producers, traders and support
institutions through proactive, sector-specific, business advisory services for Romanian firns.
For further assistance to meet the objectives summarized above, a stable economic environrnent
where major market distortions have been eliminated, would be necessary. In Romania, SME
growth would be possible if inflation (a major constraint to proper lending and borrowing
decisions) is lowered, privatization is accelerated (correcting the fact that SMEs are crowded out
by state-owned enterprises), and Government borrowing at above-market rates is markedly
reduced (as now there is little incentive for banks to lend to private enterprises and SMEs when
the Government is mopping up banks' available liquidity).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance is rated satisfactory. In addition to maintaining consistency with
the Government's development strategy and the Bank's assistance strategy for Romania, the Bank
team of skilled staff and consultants (see Annex 4) developed the project to incorporate lessons
and provide the necessary catalyst for the continuation of the privatization program and the
- 15 -



evolution toward a healthy, efficient and market-oriented financial sector.  However, they
overestimated the absorptive capacity of the PFIs and the private sector for financial resources.
In addition, focussing primarily on access to finance reflected a limited response to the difficulties
faced by the private sector. It was very difficult for the emerging private sector to thrive in an
environment that was undergoing major economic, regulatory, and institutional reforms without
some technical assistance.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. This rating is consistent with the findings
and satisfactory ratings of the Bank's Quality Assurance Group provided in 1998. The
supervision teams, comprising skilled staff and consultants (see Annex 4), focused on the
development impact of the project, sufficiently supervised the fiduciary aspects of the project, and
ensured supervision input (including complementary operational, procurement, and audit support
from both Bank headquarters and the field office) and processes were adequate. Over the five
and a half years of project implementation, 16 supervision mission were conducted, an average of
three missions per year. Aide memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted to the
Government. These and realistic project perforrnance ratings alerted the Bank and Government
when the project was at risk enabling both teams to define and implement remedial measures to
implementation problems. While the Bank displayed flexibility and adaptability in modifying the
project terms to meet private sector financial and development requirements, significant
adjustments were made late, about a year before the original closing date and optimism continued
to be maintained on macroeconomic performance, PFIs incentives to lend to SMEs and micro
enterprises, and private enterprises ability to overcome business and operational difficulties
despite the obstacles in the business environment.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the summary provided in the above sections, the Bank and Apex's perfornance was
Satisfactory, given the significant level of disbursements from the IDP and the accompanying
development impact of the same.
Borroiver
7.4 Pr epcaration:
The Government's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. Their level of
commitment to the objectives of the project was demonstrated early, during the project
preparation phase. Government counterparts were available to provide the required technical,
financial, economic, and institutional support when the project was being defined. Key officials
and staff who were expected to play an active role in the implementation of the project
collaborated with the Bank's project team. All conditions for negotiations, presentation to the
Bank's Board of Executive Directors, and loan effectiveness (relating to policy, regulations,
institutional reforms and set-up on the privatization process and eligibility requirements for PFIs)
were complied with.
- 16 -



7.5 (Glolernment inpm)lc,lnntctionr pe>l'frinance:
The Government's performance  during project implementation  was satisfactory.   The
Government's sustained commitment to strengthening the financial and banking sectors through
privatizations, liquidations, and capacity building for NBR and PFIs led to the satisfactory
achievements under the finance and technical assistance components. Also, the impact of the
project was improved when the Government took steps (albeit belatedly sometimes) to request
modifications to implementation procedures. The Government demonstrated its flexibility when
agreements were reached with the Bank to modify the eligibility criteria and implementation
procedures under the Finance Component.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the MOPF and Eximbank, as the apex agency, during project execution was
satisfactory. Following the resolution of the apex arrangement, Eximbank worked toward
realizing the goals defined by the Government under the project. Appraisal of subprojects and
disbursements were made on a timely basis and procurement procedures were generally adhered
to. Audit reports were also prepared and submitted in a timely fashion and received unqualified
opinions.
7. 7 Ov erall Borrowt er performance:
Noting the key areas summarized in the sections above, the Borrower's overall performance was
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The implementation experience of the IDP, as illustrated in several ways in the above sections,
offers several valuable lessons including that:
*     initiatives with objectives targeted on capacity building for the financial sector and
financial intermediation have a better chance of success if conditioned upon macroeconomic
stability and sustained Government support;
*     the success of financial intermediary loans is dependent upon a disciplined credit
environment. It is essential that banks are sufficiently trained in governance, management,
financial policies, credit and risk management. The inclusion of appropriate banking sector
prudential guidelines is necessary so that PFIs are strengthened rather than undermined by their
participation in similar projects;
*     an apex arrangement functions best if the apex institution is housed in a more permanent,
commercially-oriented entity, which does not compete with the PFIs and is motivated by
incentives;
*     in implementing financial intermediary loans, demonstrating flexibility to market changes
and adaptability toward small and medium scale enterprises as important economic agents,
- 17 -



increases the impact of the project and its responsiveness to the country's conditions and the
Government's development objectives.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borro wer/implententing agency.:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3735 - RO)
L PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), for the Industrial Development
Project in Romania, for which loan 3735 - RO in the initial amount of US$ 175 million and then
amended at US$ 120 million was approved on September 1999 and was effective disbursed in
amount of 96,949,127.18 US$.
The initial first allocation of the amounts of the loan to each Category and percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category            Amount of the Loan Allocated     %of Expenditures to be
(Expressed in Dollar              Financed
Equivalent)
(1) Goods, consultants' services       3,000,000           100% of foreign expenditures,
and training under Part A of the                            100% of local expenditures
Project                                                    (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other items
procured locally for goods, 100%
of foreign expenditures for
training and 100% for
consultants services
(2) Goods under Part B of the          70,000,000          100% of foreign expenditures
Project
(3) Goods and consultants'            102,000,000          100% of foreign expenditures,
services under Part C of the                               100% of local expenditures
Project                                                    (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other items
procured locally for goods, and
_____________________________  _______________________________  100%     for  consultants  services
The loan was closed on December 31, 2000. It was disbursed in an amount of
96.949.127,18 US$, and the last disbursement took place on May, 10, 2001 as follows:
- 18 -



Category             Amount of the Loan Allocated      %of Expenditures to be
(Expressed in Dollar                Financed
Equivalent)
(1) Goods, consultants' services       4,176,112.00           100% of foreign expenditures,
and training under Part A of the                              100% of local expenditures
Project                                                       (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other items
procured locally for goods, 100%
of foreign expenditures for
training and 100% for
consultants services
(2) Goods under Part B of the          12,400,645.41         100% of foreign expenditures
Project
(3) Goods and consultants'             83,611,369.77         100% of foreign expenditures,
services under Part C of the                                 100% of local expenditures
Project                                                      (ex-factory cost) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally for goods, and
100% for consultants services
Subtotal                               96,949,127.18
Canceled                               6,008,339.39
Total                                 102,957,466.57
Preparation for this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
of March 28 - April 11, 2001.
- 19 -



II. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP)
LOAN NUMBER 3735 - RO
MODIFICATION OBJECTIVES AND BENEFITS
OBJECTIVES                                      BENEFITS
* IDP funds will be able to finance all "legitimate
*      To expand the universe of eligible     business in Romania thereby expanding the
beneficiaries end eligible sub-loans.         development and growth in the export and domestic
markets. Lending and marketing to small and medium
enterprises (SMEs), micro-enterprise (MIEs), and
individual registered juridical persons (IRJPs), will be
targeted and encouraged.
*      To expand the utilization of IDP funds to    * Inclusion of local currency costs of production
include: (i) local currency cost of production inputs  inputs needed to complete production for exports
needed to complete production for exports under Part encourages import-substitution in the intermediate
B (Export Finance) of the Project; (ii) the financing of production process.
investment projects, including those geared for
production for the domestic market under Part C  * Inclusion of import-substituting production inputs
(Investment Finance) of the Project.          creates a strong market linkage between
export-oriented enterprises and domestic market
enterprises such as SMEs, MIEs and IRJPs.
* The market for financing domestically-produced
inputs and investment project to expand production
capacity will be enlarged as 90% to 95% of all private
enterprises account for nearly two-thirds of domestic
production in Romania.
*      To strengthen the Participating Bank's credit * Funds to technical assistance and training has
evaluation and risk assessment capabilities,  been increased from US$ 3.0 million to US$ 7.0
particularly in servicing the SMEs, MIEs and IRJPs, million to: (i) sharpen the credit appraisal and risk
through technical assistance and training under Part  assessment capabilities of Participating Banks; (ii)
A (Technical Assistance) of the Project.      strengthen marketing and lending to SMEs, MIEs and
IRJPs; and (iii) improve their immediate and
medium-term competitive position vis-a-vis
foreign-owned banks which have shown interest in
participating in the IDP line of credit.
- 20 -



*     To expand the number of eligible        * Adjusting the structure of "free limits":  (i) for
Participating Banks by streamlining the procedures   participating banks at US$ 250,000; (ii) a range
for loan processing, approval, and the funding of    above US$ 250,000 to US$ 750,000 for an Exim
eligible loan applications principally through  Bank "no objection" on IDP loans pre-approved by
adjustments in the structure of "free limits" for loan  Participating Banks; and (iii) a higher threshold
and "no objection" approvals.                 requiring a World Bank " no objection" for loans
above US$ 750,000 pre-approved by Participating
Banks, is intended to streamline and improve on the
efficiency of the loan processing, approval, and
disbursements process, thereby attracting more
eligible banks to participate in the IDP.
*     To allow the participating banks to on-lend   * This will necessitate the adoption of advanced
in local currency, whereby however, they bear the    management and financial techniques such as
currency risk and interest rate mismatch thereby  treasury operations and asset-liability management
created.                                      policies procedures thus further strengthening the
Participating Banks operational on lending
capabilities.
*     Extend the Completion date and Closing  * Extending the completion and closing date is
Date of the Project to June 30, 2000 and December  appropriate and necessary to provide adequate time
31, 2000 respectively.                        to achieve and implement the changes in the
eligibility of Beneficiaries, the use of the funds in the
IDP line of credit, the expansion in the number of
Participating Banks, and the upgrading and
modemization of the Participating Banks retail
lending capabilities.
- 21 -



III. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP)
LOAN NUMBER 3735-RO
AMENDMENTS TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT  IDP MARCH 1995    IDP MAY 1998    IDP SEPTEMBER
1999
Section 2.03 Project    December 31, 1998       December 31, 1999       December 31, 2000
Closing Date
Section 4.0 (b)        "upon receipt of each    "upon receipt of each
Financials and Other   such repayment, credit the such repayment, credit
Covenants              same to said separate   the same to said separate
account. All amounts to   account. All amounts to
be so credited shall be  be so credited may be
utilized, to the extent that  utilized by the Borrower
they are not yet required   through the Apex Unit,
to meet the Borrower's.   for banking activities to
repayments obligations    the extent that the said
under this Agreement,    amounts are not yet
exclusively to finance  required to meet the
through Participating   Borrower's repayment
Banks, specific projects   obligations under this
on similar terms and    agreement."
conditions as those
applicable to the
Sub-loans made out to the
respective portions of the
Subsidiary Finance so
repaid and credited to the
said separate account."
- 22 -



Schedule I
Category (1) Technical US$ 3 million for      US$ 7 million for      US$ 7 million for
Assistance and Training technical assistance and   technical assistance and  technical assistance and
training               training                training
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
for goods, 100% of
foreign expenditures for
training and 100% for
consultants services
Category (2) Export    US$ 50 million for     US$ 50 million for     US$ 26 million
Finance               foreign expenditures    foreign expenditures   5 of foreign expenditures
% of foreign expenditures  % of foreign        100% of foreign
100% of foreign        expenditures           expenditures
expenditures            100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
for goods, and 100% for
consultants services
Category (3)          USS 122,0 million       US$ 118.0 million      US$ 87 million
Investment Finance                                                   100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
for goods, and 100% for
consultants services
- 23 -



Schedule 2, Part B    "The establishment and   "The establishment and
operation of a credit  operation of a credit
facility for the financing,  facility for the financing,
through the provision of  through the provision of
Sub-loans by           Sub-loans by
Participating Banks, of    Participating Banks, of
imports of production  imports of production
input required by      input required by
enterprises for the    enterprises (including
manufacture of goods for  small and medium
export."               enterprises,
micro-enterprises, and
individual registered
juridical persons) for the
manufacture of goods
for export."
Schedule 2, Part C    "The financing, through   "The financing, through
the provision of Sub-loans the provision of
by Participating Banks, of Sub-loans by
specific development   Participating Banks, of
projects for the upgrading  specific development
and expansion of the   projects for the
facilities and operations of upgrading and expansion
enterprises and for    of the facilities and
improving their        operations of enterprises
competitiveness and    (including small and
increasing their exports." medium enterprises,
micro-enterprises, and
individual registered
juridical persons) and
for improving their
competitiveness and
increasing their
exports."
Schedule 2 Project    September 30, 1998     June 30, 1999          June 30, 2000
Completion Date
We disbursed from Loan Account:
-     55,40% from initial amount USD175.000.000
-     80,79% from USD 120.000.000
-     94,16% from USD 102.957.466,57.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION, TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE LOAN
Bank has accepted the Agency Agreement signed between the Ministry of Finance and the Export
Import Bank of Romanian April, 1995. Bank recognized EXIMBANK as MOF agent in
implementing the IDP.
- 24 -



Following the Loan Agreement "Industrial Development Project" concluded on the 21st of March
1995 between Romania (the Borrower) and IBRD (the Bank), an amount of 175,000,000 USD
was lent to the borrower by the Bank, Eximbank acting as Agent, in the name of the Romanian
Ministry of Finance.
The Loan was destined to finance through the Participating Banks for (Part B) imports of
production inputs required by enterprises for the manufacture of goods for export and for (Part C)
specific development projects for the upgrading and expansion of the facilities and operations of
enterprises and for improving their competitiveness and increasing their exports.
Export Finance
Export finance provided short-term loans to industrial enterprises to finance imports of
intermediate goods and raw materials necessary to complete production of goods for exports. The
export loans were extended in USD for maturities of up to one year. Application for a viable
direct exporter submitted an export finance loan that was able to successfully complete the export
order.
Eligibility for Export Finance was based on:
-presentation to the bank of an irrevocable letter of credit in convertible currency issued by the
respectable foreign financial institution in favor of the exporter.
-export experience in products similar to the export transaction for which export loan is being
sought;
-exporter's capacity to finance purchase of other production inputs necessary to complete the
export transaction, the purchase of which is not covered by the export loan;
-exporter's capacity to complete production on terms and conditions specified in the export
contract;
-positive value-added of the export product based on intemational reference prices.
Exporters followed the World Bank Procurement Procedures. For items procured from the export
loan proceeds which cost less than USD 100.000 equivalent, procurement followed normal
commercial practices of a borrower. Items which cost USD 100.000 to USD 3.000.000
equivalent was procured through the World Bank International shopping procedure on the basis
of at least three competitive quotation obtained from suppliers in two eligible countries.
Investment Finance
The investment finance provided medium and long-term loans to private or privatized industrial
enterprise in the context of broader enterprise restructuring programs. The loans were extended in
USD for maturities in the range 3-17 years with grace period of 1-5 years. Application for
investment finance submitted by a viable enterprise, which was capable of bearing, the foreign
exchange risk and the interest rate risk associated with long-term borrowing.
Viability of an enterprise was determined based on their current and projected financial position;
their history of export performance and the enterprise foreign exchange earnings.
Viability of the proposed investment project was determined based upon: the economic rate of
return and the financial rate of return, which was minimum 15%; the financing plan for the project
showed other financing sources that was used to cover the expected project cost; and the foreign
- 25 -



exchange earnings was available to finance the service of the loan for which the enterprise has
applied for.
Enterprise was obliged to follow the World Bank Procurement Procedure. For items procured
from the export loan proceeds, which cost less than USD 100.000 equivalent, procurement
followed normal commnercial practices of a borrower. Items which cost USD 100.000 to USD
1.000.000 equivalent was procured through the World Bank Intemational shopping procedure on
the basis of at least three competitive quotations obtained from suppliers in two eligible countries.
Procurement instructions were provided to the borrowers once their loan application was
approved.
V. EVALUATIONS OF THE PARTICIPATING BANKS PERFORMANCE DURING THE
EVOLUTION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
The Participating Banks were accredited by the National Bank of Romania and accepted by the
Bank, EXIMBANK had no implication in this process.
'There were only ten active PFIs in the program:
-Romanian Commercial Bank (RCB);
-Bucharest Bank (ALPHABANK);
-BANCOREX;
-Romanian Commercial Bank "ION TIRIAC" (RCBIT);
-Romanian Bank for Development (RBD);
-Romanian Bank;
*-DEMIRBANK;
.-Turco Romanian Bank;
-BANKCOOP;
- ROBANK.
There were accredited BANCPOST, Franco-Romanian Bank, Societe Generale Bank and
CITIBANK, but these banks were not active banks.
The West Bank, MINDBANK, Columna Bank were interested in participating in the project but
were not accredited.
The World Bank withdrew the qualification for participation in the Industrial Development
Project for Societe Generale Bank and Franco-Romanian Bank. This was due to the lack of
interest on their part in participation in the credit line.
Due to the difficult problems of the Romanian banking system, bankruptcy of the participating
bank BANKCOOP on at February 08, 2000, the intervention of the Ministry of Finance was
necessary in order to pay Bankcoop obligations to the Bank.
A special situation was represented by BANCOREX ( the most active bank) which was taken
over by Romanian Commercial Bank, by merging. The merger between the two banks became
effective on September 10,1999. On September 11, 12, 1999, BANCOREX outstanding
operations and accounts were transferred to Romanian Commercial Bank, and this bank
continued the activity.
- 26 -



The most important sub-borrowers who implemented their projects successfully are:
- Romstal - ROBANK - increase in output 5%;
-     Oil Terminal - ROBANK - increase in output 20%;
-     Vinia - RDB -108 employment creation;
-     Maremod - RCB - 260 employment creation;
-     Mondostar - RCBIT - increase in output 64%, and 180 employment creation.
There are some sub-borrowers who had problems in repaying their loan (provisions made by
participating bank):
-Rascala - BANCOREX - AVAB;
-Mettera - BANCOREX - AVAB;
-Adda - BANCOREX - AVAB;
-Sauro - BANCOREX - AVAB;
-Furnimob - BANCOREX - AVAB;
-Unilfmob - BANKCOOP- loss;
-Calumet - BANKCOOP - loss;
-Alcorom - RCB - doubtful loan;
-Diom - RCB - doubtful loan;
-Saba - RCB - doubtful loan;
-Iris - RBD - doubtful loan;
-Moldomobila - RBD - doubtful loan;
-Condem - RCBIT - substandard.
Most of the enterprises were private when the loan was closed.
The participating banks repaid in time to EXIMBANK, except Bankcoop.
The annual average lending rates to sub-borrowers is between 2 and 5 over EXIMBANK rate of
interest.
VI. EVALUATIONS OF THE BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE DURING THE
EVOLUTION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
In generally, we can mention that during the period of 6 years of the loan implementation, the
relation between EXIMBANK as the Agent of Ministry of Finance and the Bank was good,
taking into account the followings:
The use of the economic - financial analysis procedures requested by Bank's methodology leads
to the increase of the strictness of the analysis methods used up to that moment, in the Romanian
commercial bank (indicators, feathability studies, financial projects, so on);
Implementation of a new method for choosing of the suppliers, in accordance with the acquisition
Bank procedures;
If initially, the eligibility conditions of the investment subprojects and of the subproject
beneficiaries were rigid, which determined (at a given moment), the impossibility of using the
- 27 -



entire loan amount, afterwards these eligibility conditions became more flexible, meaning the
expansion of the facilities and operations of enterprise (including small and medium enterprises
micro-enterprises).
If at the beginning of the Loan Agreement implementation, the relation between Romanian
banking personals and the task manager of the Bank was very operative, some communication
delays regarding the sending of " No Objection" the replenishment of the Special Account and
LIBOR interest, had appeared.
Taking into account that EXIMBANK had to pay the commitment fee for the entire undisbursed
amount, the financial result of this source was negative, in the period between May 1995 up to
the final of the first half-year 1998. Since the second half - year 1998, the financial result
became positive by intensifying the Agent efforts for using fast the available funds of the
Revolving Found.
Concerning the investment category, the financing source of IDP was contracted on long and
medium. term subloans. At the time, this fact was an important "oxygen balloon" for the economy,
because the Romanian commercial banks borrowed on the internal market only medium and
short-term loans.
Generally, the Loan Agreement had a favorable impact to the Romanian economy, because its
implementation generated:
-     The increase of the production capacities on the Romanian territory, the arising of new
jobs on the work market, the using in good conditions of the local raw materials, the increase of
the technological development degree of the Romanian economy (because of the Bank
procurement rules by admitting for finance only of the new and performance equipment, not
second-hand), what certainly contributed to the increase of the production achieved by the
beneficiaries of the subloans and, of course, the increase of their currency revenues;
The existence of a special category dedicated to the export financing leading to the
competitiveness increase of the export Romanian products by the acquisitions meant to expert
activities;
--    Technical assistance granted to the participating banks contributed to the development of
the technical basis (information system) and the increase in the professional level of the banking
personnel, applied also in Eximbank situation.
VII. REVOLVING FUND
According to article IV from Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall open, through the Apex Unit,
in respect of repayments of principal of, respectively, the portions of the Subsidiary Finances
utilized in the making of Sub-loans under Part B of the Project, and, separately, the portions of
the Subsidiary Finances utilized in the making of Sub-loans under Part C of the Project, by the
date on which it shall receive the first such repayment, and, thereafter, shall maintain, in the bank,
acceptable to the Bank, a separate account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and
upon receipt of each such repayment, credit the same to the said separate account. All amounts to
be so credited shall be utilized, to the extent they are not yet required to meet the Borrower's
repayment obligations under this Agreement, to finance specific projects on similar terms and
- 28 -



conditions.
Initially there were two accounts:
-     the Revolving Fund for Export Finance (ERF) Special Account;
-     the Revolving Fund for Investment Finance (IRF) Special Account.
A Revolving Fund for Export Finance is a self-sustaining revolving fund, which will provide
export transaction based foreign currency loans needed by a Romanian exporter to import raw
materials and other inputs meant export production. The ERF is replenished by the principal
repaid to the ERF from the proceeds of export transaction.
A Revolving Fund for Investment Finance is for (which will provide for its long-term financial and
operational success) specific development projects for upgrading and expansion of the facilities
and operations of enterprises and for improving their competitiveness and increasing their exports.
The IRF is replenished by the principal repaid to the IRF from the proceeds of investment
transaction.
Since 1998 there is only one Revolving Fund.
On April 30, 2001, EXIMBAK lent from revolving fund the total amount USD 11.334.745,62 for
30 companies, mostly for investment.
EXIMBANK had repaying problems with 3 companies: Royal Fish, Fiesta and Fofo. These three
loans have been declared "Loss".
VIII.CONCLUSIONS AND ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN FOR THE NEXT PERIODS
From the experience acquired with the IDP loan granted by BIRD to Romania as well as with the
view of a future loan, we need to take into consideration three types of problems:
1.   the absorption capacity of our economy for this kind of loans.
The absorption capacity of our economy for such loans can be defined as follows:
0     the relatively reduced capacity of economic agents to base their investment projects on
feasibility and project studies for a longer period due to the economic instability, accidental
factors and a relatively insufficiently developed financial management;
0     the impossibility of economic agents to provide the collateral required by banks;
0     the need of channeling the loans for the development of priority areas according to the
Government economic policy, including infrastructure development;
2.    Eximbank capacity of managing such credit lines;
0     increasing the potential of Eximbank experts in analyzing investment projects;
0     the influence on the bank's profit as Eximbank had to pay commitment fee;
0     the negotiation a mutually advantageous Agent Contract (MFP and Eximbank).
- 29 -



3.    The refinancing mechanism of participating banks
0     National Bank of Romania stronger involvement in selecting the participating banks and a
closer monitoring in order to notice the agent (Eximbank) upon the arising of problems that
could influence the good running of the participating bank's activity, so that default situations in
case of bankruptcy could be prevented (example: Bancorex)
0     Increasing the interest of participating banks for using such loans in the context of their
own financing credit lines.
0     A stronger involvement of first rank banks (mainly foreign banks in the Central Europe
with equity participation in Romanian banks) in using these credit lines and the impact they have
on the real economy.
PRESIDENT
EXPORT IMPORT BANK OF ROMANIA
(Signed)
MARIANA DIACONESCU
(b) Cojinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOsIpiivate sector):
10. Additional Information
An Implementation Completion Report including annexes containing information on the project
cost and financing by component and the performance of participating banks and beneficiaries was
provided by the Government and is available from the Government of Romania and the World
Bank archives.
- 30 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator(Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Lua tatest Estimate
(a) increased output and profitability of  Done                              Done
private enterprises, as indicated by effective
utilization of Bank funds; (b) increased
paricipation of banks under the program; (c)
increased access of credit to micro
enterprises and SMEs.
(b) keep open access to banks which are    Done                              Done; 6 banks remained active
able to meet the qualification criteria, at least
three banks to remain active participants in
the project; and
(c) satisfactory quality of subproject appraisal Done                        Done
by participating banks, including credit risk
analysis, subproject viability analysis and
sensitivity analysis of financial and economic
rates of return of subprojects
(c) Participating banks using IDP criteria    Done                           Done
and project appraisal tools for appraisal of
other projects, resulting in improved quality of
loan portfolios.
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected in last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
(a) increased utilization of IDP funds; (b)    Done                          Done
active particiapation of banks indicative of
their IDP portfolios; (c) improved sub-project
appraisals by PFIs; (d) improved quality of
banks' portfolios as indicated by annual
audits.
-31-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Cmonent (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    USS million
Investment Credit                                  157.00         178.70            114
Export Credit                                      174.00          15.50             9
Technical Assistance                                 3.00           5.20            174
Total Baseline Cost                                334.00         199.40
Total Project Costs           334.00          199.40
Total Financing Required            334.00         199.40
roject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
.(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
I/ Appraisal estimates not available
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
I          ~Procurement Methodi
Expenditure Category     ICE           NCB         Othero       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         96.90       102.50       199.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (96.90)      (0.00)      (96.90)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
- 32 -



(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00            0.00             0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                            0.00            0.00            96.90           102.50         199.40
(0.00)          (0.00)          (96.90)          (0.00)        (96.90)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component 11 (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component I/               Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate _ _ _ _e__a_ _  _f__p_ _a_s_l
Bank       Govt.      CoF.        Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank _    Govt.  CoF.
Investment Credit                                            80.40
Export Credit                                                 12.40
Technical Assistance                                          4.10
I/ Appraisal estimates not available.
- 33 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 34 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions: -    -
Stare of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty      L    Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FMS, etc.)   lmplementation  Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialtv                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/91                       6   Public Sector Management,
Private Sector Development,
Privatization
2/92                       12   Public Sector Management,
Private Sector Development,
Privatization
4/92                       10   Public Sector Management,
Private Sector Development,
Privatization, Export
Development, Banking
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/92                       S   Public Sector Management,
Private Sector Development,
Privatization, Export
Development, Banking
2/93                        4   Public Sector Management,
Privatization, Single Currency
Program
Supervision
3/94                        5   Public Sector Management,
Privatization, Banking
6/94                        4   Public Sector Management,           S             S
Banking
9/94                        2   Public Sector Management,
Banking
12/94                       1  Public Sector Management
3/95                         1  Public Sector Management
7/95                         5   Public Sector Management,          S             S
Financial Sector, Management
Information Systems,
Privatization
11/95                       4   Public Sector Management,          U             S
Financial Sector, Management
Information Systems, Banking
3/96                        2   Public Sector Management,
Financial Sector
5/96                        3   Public Sector Management,          U             U
Financial Sector, Management
Information Systems
10/96                       4   Public Sector Management,          S             S
Financial Sector, Management
Information Systems,
Privatization
- 35 -



6/97                           2   Financial Sector, Financial          U               S
Management
10/97                         1   Public Sector Management
2/98                           3   Financial Sector
3/98                           2   Financial Sector
6/98                           3   Financial Sector                     U              U
1/99                          4   Financial Sector, Private Sector      S              S
ICR
3/01                          1    Operations                            S             S
(1,) Staff.
Stage of Projcct Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
______ _____ ______ _____No. Stafl weeks                    U IS$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation               151.00                       392,400
Appraisal/Negotiation                     95.42                       220,914
Supervision                              145.42                       338,202
ICR                                        4.90                        23,432
Total                                    396.74                       974,948
- 36 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
OII Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
D Physical                                 OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
E Institutional Development                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  ( ) SU (O M  O N  O NA
LI Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  D NA
El Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  D NA
EO Private sector development              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 37 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
I Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
El Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU   OHU
CJ Overall                                            OHS OS   O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS   OU   OHU
O  Government implementation performance              0 HS O S   0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   O  U  O HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS  0 U  O HU
- 38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
An Implementation Completion Report including annexes containing information on the project
cost and financing by component and the performance of participating banks and beneficiaries was
provided by the Government and is available from the Government of Romania and the World
Bank archives.
- 39 -



