Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 3735 RO
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Development Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 21, 1995
 LOAN NUMBER 3735 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 21, 1995, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European Investment Bank (EIB) a 
loan (the EIB Loan) in an aggregate amount equivalent to thirty million European 
Currency Units (ECU 30,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and EIB; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single Currency Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated February 9, 1993, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Participating 
Bank out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means any enterprise, duly established and operating under 
the Laws of the Borrower, to which a Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a 
Sub-loan;
(c)
"Sub-project" means a specific project to be carried out by a Beneficiary 
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(d)
"Participating Bank" means any banking institution with which the 
Borrower, through the Apex Unit, has entered into a Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
(e)
"Subsidiary Financing Agreement" and "Subsidiary Finance" mean, 
respectively, any agreement entered into between the Borrower, through the Apex Unit, 
and a Participating Bank
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and any loan made 
pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred seventy-five 
million dollars ($175,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not
Page  3
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to
Single Currency LIBOR, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%), plus or minus the 
Average Margin as provided in paragraph (b) (iv) below.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the period from and including the date of 
this 
Agreement to but not including the first Interest Payment 
Date and thereafter 
the period from and including any Interest 
Payment Date to but not including 
the next Interest Payment Date.
 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
 
(iii)
"Single Currency LIBOR" means the London interbank offered rate 
for dollars, 
expressed as a percentage per annum, reasonably determined 
by the Bank in 
accordance with Schedule 8 to this Agreement 
for the January 15 or July 15 on 
which an Interest Period commences (or, 
for the initial Interest Period, the 
January 15 or July 15 preceding 
the date of this Agreement or on which such 
Interest Period 
commences).
(iv)
"Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period, the weighted 
average margin, 
for the Semester preceding the relevant January 15 or 
July 15, between: (A) 
the cost of the outstanding borrowings of the 
Bank or portions thereof 
allocated to the funding of single 
currency loans in all currencies, and (B) 
the specific London and, 
for French francs, Paris interbank offered rates or 
other such reference 
rates attributable to such borrowings in each such 
currency, all 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. For any Interest Period in which (A) exceeds (B), the 
Average Margin shall be added under paragraph (a) above. For any Interest 
Period in which (B) exceeds (A), the Average Margin shall be 
subtracted under 
paragraph (a) above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
the Average Margin for the 
Interest Period ending July 14, 1993 
shall be minus 0.28%.  
(v)
"Semester" means the first six months or second six months of a 
calendar year.
(c)
After the Bank shall have determined Single Currency LIBOR and the 
Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such determination.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out or cause to be carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
Page  4
carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all 
records contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of                 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 
through the Apex Unit, in respect of repayments of principal of, respectively, the 
portions of the Subsidiary
Finances utilized in the making of Sub-loans under Part B of the Project, and, 
separately, the portions of the Subsidiary Finances utilized in the making of 
Sub-loans under Part C of the Project:
(a)
open, by the date on which it shall receive the first such repayment, 
Page  5
and, thereafter, maintain, in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, a separate account on 
terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
upon receipt of each such repayment, credit the same to the said separate 
account. All amounts to be so credited shall be utilized, to the extent they are not 
yet required to meet
the Borrower's repayment obligations under this Agreement, exclusively to finance, 
through the Participating Banks, specific projects on similar terms and conditions as 
those applicable to the Sub-loans made out of the respective portions of the 
Subsidiary Finances so repaid and credited to the said separate account.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:
(a)
subject to paragraph (b) of this Section: 
 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or 
grant made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms thereof,
or 
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination 
or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the  
Effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EIB Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)
at least two Subsidiary Financing Agreements have been duly executed on 
behalf of, and are legally binding upon, the parties thereto in accordance with the 
terms thereof; and
(c)
prudential regulations covering risk-based capital adequacy, asset 
classification and provisioning and general loan loss reserves have been introduced 
and made applicable to all commercial banks within the Borrower's territory. 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  6
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
11239
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Radu Mateescu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Rachel Lomax
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
Page  7
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated                 % of
                          (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Goods, consultants'       3,000,000             100% of foreign
    services and                                    expenditures,
    training under Part                             100% of local
    A of the Project                                expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 80%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
                                                    for goods, 100%
                                                    of foreign expen-
                                                    ditures for train-
                                                    ing and 100% for
                                                    consultants' ser-
                                                    vices
(2) Goods under Part B       70,000,000             100% of foreign
    of the Project                                  expenditures
(3) Goods and                                       100% of foreign
    consultants'            102,000,000             expenditures,
    services under Part                             100% of local
    C of the Project                                expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 80%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
                                                    for goods, and
                                                    100% for Consul-
                                                    tants' services
                            ___________
        TOTAL               175,000,000
                            ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (1) strengthen institutional capabilities 
to facilitate further privatization and restructuring of the enterprise sector; and 
(2) assist in
financing such productive facilities and resources as will contribute to increased 
Page  8
exports and improved enterprise productivity and competitiveness.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
The carrying out of programs to strengthen the organization and functions of the 
agencies, institutions and other entities involved in the formulation and execution of 
strategies for
enterprise restructuring and privatization, including:
(1)
a program, through the Borrower's Ministry of Industry: (a) to upgrade its 
office equipment and strengthen its capacity in the carrying out environmental 
assessments and its expertise in the development of industrial policies and 
strategies, (b) to develop restructuring and privatization strategies for the 
industrial sector, and (c) to formulate a strategy for the development of industrial 
technology infrastructure; and 
(2)
a program, through the Borrower's central bank, the National Bank of Romania: 
(a) to implement a suitable Chart of Accounts for commercial banks, (b) to establish 
and strengthen
internal controls and auditing practices of commercial banks, (c) to train the staff 
of commercial banks in risk and asset and liability management policies, and (d) to 
train the staff of Participating Banks in project appraisal, export finance and 
investment lending.
Part B:
The establishment and operation of a credit facility for the financing, through 
the provision of Sub-loans by Participating Banks, of imports of production inputs 
required by enterprises for the manufacture of goods for export.
Part C:
The financing, through the provision of Sub-loans by Participating Banks, of 
specific development projects for the upgrading and expansion of the facilities and 
operations of
enterprises and for improving their competitiveness and increasing their exports.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
January 15, 2000                                 
4,390,000
July 15, 2000                                    
4,475,000
January 15, 2001                                 
4,560,000
July 15, 2001                                    
4,645,000
January 15, 2002                                 
4,735,000
July 15, 2002                                    
4,820,000
January 15, 2003                                 
4,915,000
July 15, 2003                                    
5,005,000
January 15, 2004                                 
5,100,000
July 15, 2004                                    
5,195,000
January 15, 2005                                 
5,295,000
July 15, 2005                                    
5,395,000
January 15, 2006                                 
5,495,000
July 15, 2006                                    
5,600,000
January 15, 2007                                 
5,705,000
Page  9
July 15, 2007                                    
5,810,000
January 15, 2008                                 
5,920,000
July 15, 2008                                    
6,035,000
January 15, 2009                                 
6,145,000
July 15, 2009                                    
6,265,000
January 15, 2010                                 
6,380,000
July 15, 2010                                    
6,500,000
January 15, 2011                                 
6,625,000
July 15, 2011                                    
6,750,000
January 15, 2012                                 
6,875,000
July 15, 2012                                    
7,005,000
January 15, 2013                                 
7,135,000
July 15, 2013                                    
7,270,000
January 15, 2014                                 
7,410,000
July 15, 2014                                    
7,545,000
 
___________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
 
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
 
Goods to be financed under the respective Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
1.
estimated to cost per contract the equivalent of more than $1,000,000 for those 
to be so financed under Categories (1) and (3) and $3,000,000 for those to be so 
financed under Category
(2), shall be procured through limited international bidding procedures on the basis 
of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list, acceptable to the Bank, of 
qualified suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof);
2.
estimated to cost per contract the equivalent of between $100,000 and $1,000,000 
for those to be so financed under Categories (1) and (3) and between $100,000 and 
$3,000,000 for those to be so financed under Category (2), may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three qualified suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank;
3.
estimated to cost per contract the equivalent of less than $100,000, may be 
procured, in accordance with the normal commercial practices of the Beneficiaries, 
acceptable to the Bank; and
4.
which the Bank agrees are proprietary, may be procured under contracts after 
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Bank.
Part B:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods to be financed under 
the first Sub-loan to be made by each Participating Bank under each of Parts B and C 
of the Project; and (ii) each contract for goods to be financed under Categories (1) 
and (3) estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and under Category (2) 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
Page  10
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to  Ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
The provision of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project by the entities designated in said Part as 
responsible for the
carrying out of the programs thereunder and for the overall coordination and 
supervision of the same, including through the establishment and maintenance for this 
purpose of a management unit, with staff and other resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, by each of the said entities; (b) employ or cause to be 
employed consultants, with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, to assist in the carrying out of said Part; and (c) ensure that the training 
under said Part shall be carried out in accordance with programs, including 
arrangements and time schedules for the implementation thereof, and criteria for the 
selection of
candidates thereunder, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Parts B and C of the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower through its 
Ministry of Finance. For this purpose, the Borrower shall ensure that the said 
Ministry shall maintain or
cause to be maintained: (a) a separate unit (the Apex Unit), with staff and other 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for the 
Page  11
carrying out of the said Parts; and (b) arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
the National Bank of Romania pursuant to which the National Bank of Romania shall 
continue to assist the said Ministry in determining the compliance by Participating 
Banks with the conditions set forth in Part B of the Annex to this
Schedule.
3.
For the purpose of carrying out Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall 
through the Apex Unit: 
(a)
relend to the Participating Banks the equivalent of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (2) and (3) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under Subsidiary Financing Agreements to 
be entered into between the Borrower and each such Participating Bank, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been  Approved by the Bank, and which shall include, 
without limitation, those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule;
(b)
monitor the overall execution of said Parts and the carrying out by the 
Participating Banks of their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements in accordance 
with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable the Participating Banks to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements all the obligations of the 
Participating Banks therein set forth, and not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(d)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Financing Agreements
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for 
the purposes of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
A.
Terms:
 
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the loan to a 
Participating Bank under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall be: (a) 
denominated in dollars; and
(b) the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made out 
of the proceeds thereof.
2.
The Subsidiary Finance shall be: (a) charged, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, during each six-month period 
commencing on January 15 and July 15 of each calendar year, at a rate equal LIBOR plus 
a margin, as shall be calculated on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank; 
and (b) repaid in accordance with an amortization schedule pursuant to which each 
portion thereof utilized in the making of a Sub-loan shall have a
maturity calculated to conform to the amortization schedule applicable to such 
Sub-loan.
3.
The right of a Participating Bank to the use of the proceeds of its respective 
Subsidiary Finance shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such Participating Bank to 
perform any of its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement or to continue to be 
in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; 
and (b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) hereof for a continuous period of 60 days.
B.
Conditions:
 
1.
A Subsidiary Financing Agreement may be entered into with a banking institution, 
Page  12
duly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, which the Borrower, 
with the assistance
of the National Bank of Romania pursuant to the arrangements referred to in paragraph 
2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, shall have determined, and the Bank shall have 
agreed, that such
banking institution: 
(a)
is in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to 
its operations;
(b)
is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and procedures 
which the Bank and the National Bank of Romania pursuant to paragraph 2 or Part B or 
Schedule 5 to this
Agreement shall have judged acceptable, and has undertaken to maintain said policies 
and procedures;
(c)
has a satisfactory financial structure, determined, inter alia, on the 
basis of risk-based capital adequacy criteria satisfactory to the Bank, policies and 
performance, and the organization, management, staff and other resources required for 
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including its activities to be 
undertaken under Parts B and C of the Project; and
(d)
has established a credit committee and a technical unit in accordance 
with, and for the purposes set forth in paragraph 2 (c) hereof.
2.
Each respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant 
to which each respective Participating Bank shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its activities under Parts B and C of the Project and conduct 
its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and 
practices, with
qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity with the 
investment and lending policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 (b) hereof, 
and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i)
make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Attachment to this Annex; (ii) exercise its rights in relation to each 
such Sub-loan in such
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, 
comply with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement and 
achieve the purposes of Parts B and C of the Project; (iii) not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any provision 
thereof, without prior approval of the Borrower; and (iv) appraise Sub-projects and 
supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower;
(c)
maintain, with staff and other resources and terms of reference, 
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower: (i) a credit committee to be responsible 
for the evaluation and approval of Sub-loan applications; and (ii) a technical unit to 
be responsible for the appraisal and  supervision of the carrying out of Sub-projects;
(d)
(i)
exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the Bank 
or the Apex Unit, as may be reasonably requested by the Bank, the Borrower, or the 
Apex Unit, with regard to the progress of its activities under Parts B and C of the 
Project, the performance of its  obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of Parts B and C of the Project; 
and (ii) promptly inform the Bank and the Apex Unit of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities under its respective 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
(e)
(i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; (ii) have its 
financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank, as 
Page  13
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for such year as 
so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ATTACHMENT TO THE ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-loans
The provision of this Attachment shall for the purposes of paragraph 2 (b) (i) 
of Part B of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Categories (2) and (3) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall: (a) be denominated and be 
equivalent in dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods 
financed out of such proceeds for the Sub-project; and (b) not exceed the equivalent 
of (i) $5,000,000 in respect of a Sub-loan under Part B of the Project, and (ii) 
$8,000,000 in respect of a Sub-loan under Part C of the Project.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate determined by the Participating 
Bank making such Sub-loan in accordance with its investment and lending policies and 
practices referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Part B of the Annex to Schedule 5 of this 
Agreement; and (b) made for a period determined pursuant to said policies and 
practices and not exceeding (i) in respect of a Sub-loan under Part B of the Project, 
365 days; and (ii) in respect of a Sub-loan under Part C of the Project, three to 17 
years, inclusive of a grace period of one to five years.
3.
No expenditures for goods required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the Bank 
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date 
on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under paragraph 4 (a) of 
this Attachment in respect of such Sub-loan, or 
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan 
(as hereinafter defined) for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the 
Loan Account and
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 4 (b) of this Attachment in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the 
purposes hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-project to be 
made by each respective Participating Bank in an amount to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed, when added to all other free-limit 
Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and 
which have been or are being used for financing goods directly and materially related 
to such  Sub-project, the sum determined from time to time by the Bank and notified to 
the Borrower and each such respective Participating Bank.
4.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit Sub-loan, to the Bank 
for approval, the Participating Bank shall furnish to the Bank, through the Apex Unit, 
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of 
the Beneficiary; (ii) the appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (iii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor; and (iv) any such other information as the Bank 
shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the 
Page  14
Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of 
the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shallbe presented to the Bank not later 
than January 1, 1996.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have established to the 
satisfaction of the Participating Bank making the Sub-loan, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank that: 
(a)
it is creditworthy, and has a satisfactory financial structure and the 
organization, management, staff and financial and other resources required for the 
efficient carrying out of
its operations, including the carrying out of the Sub-project; 
(b)
in respect of Beneficiaries under Part B of the Project, it has a 
demonstrable and relevant exporting experience and is in possession of a satisfactory 
irrevocable letter of credit or confirmed purchase order issued by a responsible buyer 
covering the export product to be
manufactured utilizing the goods to be purchased under the Sub-loan; and
(c)
in respect of Beneficiaries under Part C of the Project, it is an 
enterprise established under the Borrower's Law No. 31 on Business Companies, dated 
November 16, 1990, and
have developed and adopted a business plan, including a restructuring program, 
designed to provide for its long-term financial and operational success, and is either 
(i) a private sector enterprise, or (ii) other than a private sector enterprise in 
respect of which the Borrower's State Ownership
Fund has initiated actions to facilitate the transfer, within a 12-month period of the 
date of the making of Sub-loan to it, of its ownership to the private sector under the 
Borrower's Law No. 58 on Commercial Companies Privatization Law, dated August 14, 
1991, and whose business plan is designed to ensure the efficient transformation into 
a private sector enterprise. For the purposes hereof, the term "private sector 
enterprise" means an enterprise of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock or 
other pro- prietory interest is not owned or controlled by the Borrower or any of its 
agencies.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis 
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be:
(a)
technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially 
viable;
(b)
in respect of Sub-projects under Part B of the Project, for the 
manufacture of products for export whose manufacturing cost includes a positive 
value-added in the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
in respect of Sub-projects under Part C of the Project, designed with 
appropriate health, safety and environmental standards, on the basis of an 
environmental impact analysis
approved by the Borrower's Ministry of Environment, and calculated to have a financial 
rate of return and an economic rate of return of at least 15% each.
7.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating Bank making the 
Sub-loan shall obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate 
to protect its interest and those of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right 
to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economical, financial and 
commercial
practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as needed, the fund, 
facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
Page  15
(b)
require that the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and use 
such goods exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project; 
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank or the 
Apex Unit on behalf of the Borrower if the Bank, the Borrower, or the Apex Unit shall 
so request, the goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included in the 
Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair
such goods;
(e)
require each Beneficiary to (i) have its financial statements for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Participating Bank, and (ii) 
furnish to the Participating Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Participating Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
(f)
in respect of Beneficiaries under Part C of the Project, require the 
Beneficiary to implement its business plan, referred to in paragraph 5 (c) of this 
Attachment with due diligence and efficiency and take all necessary action to achieve 
the objectives thereof, and carry out and operate the Sub-project in accordance with 
appropriate health, safety and environmental standards, satisfactory to the Bank; 
(g)
obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower, or the Apex Unit 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; 
and
(h)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under 
its contract with the Participating Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and 3, set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$17,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  16
withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account once the total 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective 
Part of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
such Part, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for such 
Part shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
Page  17
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the words "the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such
amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" 
set forth at the end of Section 6.03 of the General Conditions are deleted and the 
following is substituted
therefor: 
"or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 4 (c) of the Attachment to the 
Annex to 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of 
any portion of the 
Loan: (i) have received no applications or requests under 
subparagraphs (a) or (b) of 
said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, the Bank may, 
by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such 
applications or 
requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case 
may 
be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
SCHEDULE 8
Single Currency LIBOR Determination
1.
Single Currency LIBOR for any Interest Period shall be the offered rate for 
deposits in dollars for a period of six months which appears on the display designated 
as page "3750" on the
Telerate monitor (or such other page or service as may replace it for the purpose of 
displaying London interbank offered rates of major banks for dollar deposits), as of 
11:00 a.m. (London
time) on the second day on which banks and foreign exchange markets are open for 
business in London prior to the relevant January 15 or July 15 (the Interest 
Determination Date).
2.
If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on such service as may 
replace it, the Bank shall request the London offices of four major banks to provide 
the Bank with the rate at which deposits in dollars are offered by such banks on the 
Interest Determination Date to leading banks in the London interbank market for a 
period of six months ending on the last day of such Interest Period. Single Currency 
LIBOR for such Interest Period shall be the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if 
necessary to the fifth decimal place) of such offered quotations as determined by the 
Bank.
3.
If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such quotations under 
paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if 
necessary to the fifth
decimal place) determined by the Bank of the rates quoted by at least two major banks 
in New York City selected by the Bank on the Interest Determination Date for loans in 
dollars to leading
European banks for a period of six months ending on the last date of such Interest 
Period. If fewer than two of the banks so selected are quoting such rates, Single 
Currency LIBOR shall be the single currency in effect for the last preceding Interest 
Period.
Page  18
