DoesiM 4             J.1.4-         L%Itb    -     
Thc World:
For OMCAL u
ReponNeN. 9934
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1997-TUN)
OCTOBER 4, 1991
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
YEAR                                      US$                        TUNISIAN
DINAR (D)
1981                                      1.0                        0.4938
1982                                      1.0                        0.5907
1983                                      1.0                        0.6788
1984                                      1.0                        0.7788
1985                                      1.0                        0.8345
1986                                      1.0                        0.7940
196.                                      1.0                        0.8287
1988                                      1.0                        0.8578
1989                                      1.0                        0.9371
1990 (November)                           1.0                        0.8000
Weight and Measures
Metric System
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Glossary or Abbreviations
ASAL         -        Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BNA          -        Banque nationale agricole
CNEA         -        National Centre for Agricultural Studies
CRDA         -        Commissariat r6gional au developpement agricole
CRGR         -        Centre de recherche du g6nie rural
ERR          -        Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP       -        FAO - World Bank Cooperative Program
GTZ          -        Deutsche Gesellschaft FQr Technische Zusammenarbeit
ME System    -        Monitoring and Evaluation System
NRDP         -        Northwest Rural Development Project
ODESYPANO    -        Office de d6veloppement sylvo-pastoral du Nord-Ouest
PCR          -        Project Completion Report
PMU          -        Project Management Unit
SAR          -        Staff Appraisal Report
WFP          -        World Food Program



JO  OFnCL USZ ONLY
TFt WOtLO BANK
Washington. 0 C 204 3
U S A
Oftee of OlfctKe-Gwfai
October 4, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE-EXECUTIVE    ECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - TunLsia
Northwest Rural Develonment Prolect (Ln. 1997-TUN)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled "Project CompletLon Report on Tunisia - Northwest Rural
Development Project (Ln. 1997-TUN)," prepared by the Europe, Middle
East and North Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                                    ;
This document ha  rastricted diuubuton and may be used by recipients only in the performace
of their oficial duties lu contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Usk authouiutbon.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNXSIA
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
(Loan 1997-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa,4e No.
PREFACE  . . . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . 1
1.  Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
2.    Background   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   1
3.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
4.  Project Design and Organization              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
5.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
6.  Project Results    .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  7
7.  Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . ,                   .  .  . . . . .   13
8.  Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
9.  Borrower performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
10.  Project Documentation, Data, Accounts and Procurement    . . . . .  15
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . .  16
Memorandum Concerning the Evaluation of Ph..se I of the Northwest
Rural Development Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
1.  Basic Infrastructure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
2.  Reforestation and Water and Soil Conservation Actions  . . . . . .  17
3.  Livestock Production and Pasture Improvement   . . . . . . . . . .  17
4.  Agricultural Development and Support Actions   . . . . . . . . . .  17
5.  Participation of the Population    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
6.  Monitoring and Evaluation    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .   19
1.   Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .   19
2.   Project Timetable    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
3.   Credit Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
4.   Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
5.   Project Costs and Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
6.   Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
7.   Status of Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
8.   Use of Bank Resources    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
9.   Economic Analysis    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
NORTHWES- RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1997-TUN_)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Northwest Rural
Development Project in Tunisia for which the L,an 1997-TUN in the amount of
US$24.0 million was approved on May 15, 1981. The loan was closed on December
31, 1989, two years behind schedule.  A sum of US$6.5 million was cancelled in
1987 and a further US$1.1 million was cancelled at closing.
The PCR was prepared by FAO/CP (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III), and the Borrower (Part II).
A Completion mission by FAO/CP visited Tunisia during November 19-24,
1990. The report is based, inter alia, on findings ot .his mission, the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervisio- reports and a project
completion report prepared by the project authority with the National Centre of
Agricultural Studies in Tunisia.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1997-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oowectives
1.      The primary objective ol  the project was to tackle the problems of the
backward and depressed Northwest of Tunisia where the poorest sections of the
rural population live. The project was the first phase of a 15 year program that
aimed to increase self sufficiency, employment generation, the nutritional
standing of the poor, and increased energy production, by: environmental actions
through the introduction of new approaches to soil conservation and forestry
regeneration, the introduction of a new model of rural development, expanded
agricultural and forestry production, and improved health and nutrition.
Specifically, the SAR noted that the proiect aimed to: (a) increase the income
and improve the health and educational levels of the target population; (b)
protect natural resources through reforestation and reduction of soil erosion
on crops and forage lands; (c) create employment; and (d) develop local energy
sources through the production of fuelwood (para. 3.01).
Implementation ExRerience and Results
2.      The project mainly achieved its targets in construction of infrastructure
(building, roads, schools, and water points). This has increased social welfare
(improved quantity and qualit:y of water, provided schooling opportunities that
were previously not available, etc.) and increased access to backward areas of
the country thereby allowing marketing activities, delivery of inputs, and
permitting improved delivery of health and administrative  services.   The
achievement of these targets is important since it will now allow the successful
development of input and output services during the remaining second phase of
this 15-year development program. For soil conservation measures (reforestation,
conversion of highly erodible lands from crops to perennial forages,
establishment of permanent pastures or improving natural ranges and on-farm
erosion control works), the results were less satisfactory when measured against
appraisal targets, achieving less than 50 percent of projections (para. 4.02
d,e,f). Project nctivities to increase agricultural production (wheat, edible
legumes, milk and meat) were the least effective (para. 4.02 a,b,c).



- iv -
3.      The  primary  reasons  for  shortfalls  in  implementation  rate  were
organizational deficiencies, staff shortages, land tenure and use patt,rns,
resistance of small-scale, subsistence fatmers to accept perceived risks in
changing production systems and failure to promote development of effective
producer groups until toward the end of the project period (para. 5.01). More
importantly, it appears that the SAR underestimated the time taken to develop
the new model of rural development that relied heavily on the participatioll of
local populations- -an activity that the Bank is struggling with in many projects
today. Following a mid-term review, Government accepted the need for testing
the participative/integrated approach which has proven to be successful following
its impleme.itation on a pilot basis.  The project has also established good
relations between the 'Office" and the rural populations.   Taking this invo
account, and the fact that the objectives of the project should have been more
modest from a production point of view (and rather focussed on institutional,
organizational and infrastructural aspects that needed to be established in the
first five years of the 15-year development period), the project has been
relatively successful.
Sustairnabilitv
4.      The  construction  of  roads  and  schools  will  have  a  long-term
sustainability in improvement of input distribution, product marketing
sustainability and increased welfare of the rural communities. Health should
benefit from improved water supplies and road construction should lead to a
multiplier effect as farmeLs in these backward areas become less subsistence-
oriented. The sustainability of other actions financed under the first phase
project will depend upon continuation of the 15-year program provided that (a)
organizational problems can be overcome; (b) lessons learnt during the first
phase can be fully taken on board; and (c) the participative/integrated approach
can be replicated over the entire project area.  Given that the SAR envisaged
a 15-year development period, it was not anticipated that the project be "fully-
sustainable" at the end of the first phase. Lessons have been learnt and, as
noted, there is now a sound intellectual and institutional basis for future
development in which production benefits should accelerate.  A second phase,
drawing on experience from the existing project, is under preparation.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.      Sustainable development of areas with a concentration of small-scale
producers can only be achieved through beneficiary participation in project
development and implementation and promotion of effective producer groups.
Projects which expect a participative approach and producer group promotion
require long preparation and start up and participation of social science
specialists. Projects of rural development should be part of a wider, longer
term program approach. On-farm soil erosion investments require a relatively
large public sector participation.   Where there is a history of failures in
public support to development activities, new efforts must include public sector
actions of clear and immediate interest and benefits to the target population.
Investment and incremental production credit components aimed to assist
disadvantaged small-scale producers without land titles and with small individual
credit demand must be specifically designed to meet these particular needs
(para. 8.02).



PROJECT COMPLETIgNREPORT
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1997-TUN)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect _dentity
Project name       :    Northwest Rural Development Project
Loan No.                l1997-TUN
RVP Unit           :     EMENA Region
Country                  Tunisia
Sector             :    Agriculture
Sub-sector         .    Rural Development
2. Background
2 01        The NRDP Project was the tenth Bank-group assisted agricultural
project in Tunisia. It was identified as an effort to reduce the extreme
po\arty in Northwestern Tunisia. At that time, 17 percent of Tunisia's
population lived out or below the absolute level of poverty. This was to be
achieved through, inter alia, laying the base for increasing crop and
livestock production and lowering the rate of soil erosion in the area. The
project idea, which was based on two successful pilot operatio. , was
presented to the Bank by the Government in 1978. The project was prepared by
a public Tunisian consulting firm, the National Center for Agricultural
Studies (CNEA), with important assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture
Forestry Department and the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (JrAO/CP).
The project was appraised by the Bank in September/October 1980, approved by
the Board in May 1981, signed in July 1981 and became effective in March 1982.
It closed at the end of December 1989, two years behind schedule after two
extensions.
2.02        At appraisal the project was expected to cover a five-year time
slice of a 15-year development program with a first phase cost of US$61.5
million of which the Bank would provide US$24 million, producers US$4.3
million, German Technical Assistance US$1.7 million and the Government US$31.5
million equivalent. At closure, the actual project costs reached US$46.7
million and the Bank loan amounted to US$16.4 million after cancellation of
US$7.6 million (see Part III, Table 5). The program is being continued with
interim financing provided by the Bank financed ASAL II loan. The Government,
with assistance from FAO/CP, is preparing a second phase project.



- 2 -
2.03        Policy and Sector Context:  The project was part of an on-going
Bank support of Tunisia's efforts to increase efficient agricultural
production although the special feature of this project was its objective to
address problems in one of the most backward regions of the country through an
integrated approach. Bank projects in the sector have assisted in the
development of irrigation, rural roads, agricultural credit, fisheries,
forestry, agricultural dnd rural development. In addition, two agricultural
sector adjustment loans have supported the Government's efforts to make
necessary changes in macro- and micro-economic policies in the sector
(Part III, Table 1).
2.04        These Project ar.d Sector Loans have sought to increase
agricultural income, reduce the exodus of the rural population and protect the
environment through rational soil use thus reducing erosion. The need for
strengthening the agricultural sector is demonstrated by the decreasing
relative importance of the sector within the overall economy and the
increasing dependence on imported food products. Between 1960 and 1988,
agriculture's contribution to GDP has decreased from 24 to 13 percent,
employment in the sector had dropped from 54 to 30 percent and the proportion
of agricultural to all exports from 6C to 8 percent. While these decreases in
the significance of the agricultural sector in the economy were largely due to
a rapid growth of other sectors, the rate of decline indicates the need for
revitalization of the primary production sector. This need was further
exemplified by the ratio of agricultural exports to imports which had dropped
from 75 in 1975-76 to 42 percent in 1980-81.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01        The primary objective of the project was to tackle the problems of
the depressed Northwest of Tunisia where the poorest sections of the rural
population lived. The project was the first phase of a 15-year program that
aimed to increase self sufficiency, employment generation, the nutritional
standing of the poor, and increased energy production, by: environmental
actions through the introduction of new approaches to soil conservation and
forestry production, the introduction of a new model of rural development,
expanded agricultural and forestry production, and improved health and
nutrition. Specifically, the SAR noted that the project aimed to: (a)
increase the income and improve the health and education of the target
population; (b) protect natural resources through reforestation and reduced
soil erosion on crop and forage lands; (c) create employment opportunities;
and (d) develop local energy sources through the production of fuelwood. In
retrospect, it appears that the SAR underestimated the time taken to develop
the new model of rural development that relied heavily on the participation
of local populations--an activity that the Bank is struggling with in many
projects today. In this vein, it underestimated the time taken to establish
the right organizational structure to implement this form of participative
management and overestimated the production benefits that were likely within
the first five-years of a 15-year program (para. 4.07).



-3-
3.02        The project had a total of 12 components which fell under the
ge eral headings of organization and management, crop and animal production,
in.rastructure, human resource development and natural resource conservation.
The specific components are discussed in para. 6.01 and 6.02 and detailed in
Part III, Table 5.
4.  Project Design and Organizat ion
4.01        The general problems of low income, inadequate health and
education and land tenure of the rural population in Northwestern Tunisia and
the specific need to reduce the sedlimentation rate in the new Sidi Salem
reservoir, constructed to supply potable water to the increasingly urbanized
eastern coast, provided a clear conceptual base for the project. These
problems were interlinked and efforts to solve anyone or a series of them
would assist in the resolution of the others, while individual or non-
integrated activities would not attain program objecti-ves. Government and
Bank staff involved in project appraisal understood and were in agreement on
the concept.
4.02        There were three innovative approaches proposed in the project.
The first dealt with the presentation of a 15-year program which recognized
that the regional development objectives could not be met during a normal Bank
project cycle. The second innovation was related to the micro-zone approach
whereby the total area would be divided into manageable geographic areas where
an integrated approach could be taken to research, extension, marketing,
credit and watershed protection. The project proposed that the most critical
micro-zones, from the standpoint of the reservoir protection, be given
priority in the t :netable of project implementation.  The third innovation was
the idea of incorporating the rural population into the development process at
the initial stage of micro-zone planning ancd to continually strengthen
producer groups with the goal of allowing group extension, demonstration,
credit activities and especially soil conservation actions. Producers',groups
would eventually take control of certain public services such as water point
maintenance, input supply, marketing and operation of milk collection
centers.
4.03        The scope and scale of the project as presented in the appraisal
reporL was reasonable based on the proposed organization, staffing and
budgeting of the project. Here again the idea of a 15-year development
program tended to reduce the temptation to attempt too much in one project.
In light of the lack of previous developmental activity in the region and the
insufficiency of social, technical and production data, the project was
surprisingly well prepared. There were weaknesses in the evaluation of the
ability to overcome traditional cultural attitudes and the specific approach
and resources needed to bring about beneficiary ownership of project goals and
activities. This was related to the lack of real life experience of both Bank
and Tunisian staff in the application of human resource mobilization proposals
particularly the issue of the participation of local populations. The
appraisal mission was not unaware of difficulties as indicated in Annex 11,
page 9, para. 20 of the Implementation Volume, i.e., "Given the fact that for



- 4 -
centuries the population has considered iorage as a gift from heaven, the
concepts introduced would represent a radical sociological and economical
change which can only be viable in the context of the entire project concept
where pasture and forage produtction are offered as part of a package of mutual
rights and obligations between the project and the population in which the
population benefits only through its cooperation and participation."
4.04        Partially a!; a result of this lack of experience, the Project
Implementation Unit, the "Office", did not fully understand the responsibility
which they were accepting. It is reasonable to assume that if the higher
level staff had fully understood the inplication of the producer group
proposals, many of then would not have agreed to the concept due to their own
traditional attitudes and the negative experiences of the cooperative movement
in Tunisia in the 1960's.
4 05        Ir, retrospect, the project organizational proposals appear to be
valid. Deficiencies in this asFect during implementation were due to internal
difficulties which limited the creration of the organizational structure and
staffing proposed 'n the project. There were a few project design features
which, in hindsight, limited effective project implementation but it is not
obvious that all of these could have jeen foreseen at the time of preparation
and appraisal.
4.06        The questionable design features were.
(a)   Proposals made for soil conservation often did not adapt to the
landholding and usf; patterns;
(b)   Permanent pasture plantings were based on experiences in the
Sedjnane Project which were to be extrapolated to other project
areas. Ecological differences prevented the adaptation of the
same forage species and there was inadequate adaptive research
undertaken to develop new production systems. The proposals for
enriched or natural regeneration of native range were not based on
previous experience;
(c)   As menLioned in para. 4.03, there wa& no experience in Tunisia in
the incorporation of beneficiaries in projecc goal ownership and
implementation, nor did the project propose the incorporation of
sociology specialists to seek solutions to the problems which
could have been foreseen. Failuro to anticipate these problems
had an impact on many project components but especially watershed
wide soil conservation works, management of communal pasture and
ranges, reforestation and transfer of public sector activities to
producer groups (para. 5.01 c);
(d)   Implementation of certain project components depend greatly on
contracting research project to INRAT or other agencies. The
appraisal mission failed to adequately consider the legal
difficulties in contracting to these non-autonomous agencies and
their deficiencies in organization, funding and staffing;



(e)   The proposal to drastically reduce cereal production on land with
greater slope did not adequately appreciate the cultural and
production systems bottlenecks in achieving such a change which is
likely to occur only with producer groups to resolve co0m1MU'al
pasture and range use, availability of appropriate, proven
technological packages and an effective extension program;
(f)   The appraisal mission was over-optimistic in forecasting the
eventual staffing level of the recently created "Office"; and
(g)   The appraisal missicn failed to anticipate the disequilibria in
social and technical aspects which would be created by the
difference in two sources o, technical assistance for the Project,
i.e., GTZ for Mogods-Kroumerie and loan financing for the
remaining two regions.
4.07        As noted also, in retrospect the appraisal underestimated the time
taken to achieve the production benefits that could be expected from this, the
first phase of a 15-year program. The objectives of the project should have
been more modest and focussed more on institutional, organizational and
infrastructural aspects that needed to be established in the five-year project
period. Produclion benefits should have been less stressed; rather, it was
important that the project lay the base for production and income generating
benefits that would arise over the remaining 10 years of the 15 year
development per4od. As stated in paras 5.01 c and 8.01, this was noted during
the course of prject implementation.
5. Project Implementation
5.01        Due to the Government delay in approving legal documents and fully
authorizing the PMU (Office du Developpement sylvopastoral du Nord-Ouest,
ODESYPANO), the project only became effective in March 1982, ten months after
Board approval (Part III, Table 2). In spite of the delay in effectiveness,
various project activities were initiated and financed for 1981 since
financing retroactive to Loan signing was authorized. ODESYPANO made rapid
progress in construction of project infrastructure and initial staff
recruitment. However, the implementation rate gradually declined due to weak
organization and management and a national freeze on staff recruitment.
Purchases of additional vehicles and equipment were delayed or prohibited by
the Ministry of Finance. These problems lead to a reduction in total project
costs and devaluation in the Dinar reduced US$ requirements of the project. A
total of US$7.6 million of the loan were cancelled. The final total projec:
cost was Dinars 36 million including Dinar 1.2 million from the World Food
Programme to provide food for Distribution to project beneficiaries in partial
payment for labor in infrastructure construction and loss of production while
changing production systems (Part III, Table 5). As the project proceeded,
there were a number of variances between planned and actual implementation.
The most important of these were:



(a)   The expansion of project activities into new micro-zones proceeded
much more rapidly than anticipated and beyond the implementation
capacity personnel available. This resulted in a lack of adequate
planning and incorporation of beneficiaries in the planning and
implementation process as well as individual, specific activities
rather than an integrated approach to entire watershed or at least
douar level protection within micro-zones. The integration of
actions at individual farm level was also incomplete. This rapid
expansion was largely due to political pressure applied by the
five separate Governorates, each of which wanted to have a maximum
of project activities within their geographic area. The lack of
maturity of the new "Office" as an administrative body and
inadequate support from the Ministry of Agriculture probably
contributed to this phenomenon;
(b)   The organization and function of the "Office" suffered from three
major problems. First, while the Government appears to have
remained--and, indeed remains--highly committed to the objectives
of the project (paras. 7.02 and 9.01), there was several changes
of managing directors which complicated understanding and
continuity of the Project.  Secondly, management established an ex
ante control system which resulted in too much centralization of
authority and too high a percentage of administrative staff.
Thirdly, a freeze on recruitment applied by the Ministry of
Agriculture in 1984 resulted in a deficiency of technical staff to
adequately implement planning, training and agricultural extension
activities, including producer group promotion as well as delaying
soil conservation and reforestation;
(c)   Partially as a result of "b", producer groups, which were the
basis for success of the crop and livestock production components,
installation of soil conservation structures, road maintenance and
water point construction and maintenance, never became functional.
Nevertheless, a mid-term review and other supervision missions,
noted that the group approach, recommended by the SAR--and
fundamental for the success of the project--was not being
implemented. In 1986/87, the Bank succeeded in persuading
Government to try the group approach on a pilot basis. With
assistance from GTZ, this approach was tested in the Sedjenane
area with some success--lessons will be incorporated into a
possible second phase operation;
(d)   Project authorities decided to improve potable water supply for
the human and animal population through simple actions in existing
water sources rather than drilling wells and equipping these with
pumps (para. 6.02 e). This change allowed a greater positive
impact throughout the project area at a much lower cost. Present
indications are that the more sophisticated water sources
recommended in the appraisal may be needed in certain micro-zones
during a second phase due to increased water requirements; and



- 7 -
(e)   Government requested and the Bank approved Loan financing of 45
percent of road construction costs.
6. Proiect Results
6.01        The project was very effective in implementing the social and
physical infrastructure components.  This infrastructure will contribute
significantly to further development of the region within the guidelirnes of
the 15-year development program. Other components had varying levels of
results due to difficulties mentioned in earlier sections of this report and
others to be discussed in the component analysis. While the project generally
did not meet SAR production targets, in retrospect, it is felt that these
targets were overly optimistic and that the project should have focussed more
on laying the basis for the fu_.vce (para. 4.07).  In this respect, the project
was quite successful. Firstly the project's infrastructural achievements
were significant. Secondly, the project has established good relations
between the "Office" and the rural. populations. And thirdly, the new
participative approach is promising in the project area with GTZ assiscance.
A second phase project has, therefore, a sound intellectual and institutional
basis from which to move forward. Details of project results are set out in
Table 4 in Part III of the report.
6.02        Specific component results and impact are as follows:
(a)   Soil Conservation and Pasture Improvement:  As in all components
there is a severe deficiency in quantified or quantifiable data.
There is a notable difference among data provided to supervision
missions, those collected by CNEA in the process of preparing a
completion and impact report for the Office (1990) and those
provided to the completion mission.  Where available, these data
are given in the tables of Part III; however, the data received by
the completion mission have been used in the impact analysis since
project staff have made a concerted effort to update information
as a result of discussions with the second phase preparation
mission in June 1990.
Soil Conservation measures were more readily accepted on
larger private or communal holdings where installations of
structures would enhance or at least not interfere with
present farming systems. Thus construction of rock terraces
on contour lines which resulted in destoning arable land or
planting of olive or almond trees on rangeland was readily
adopted. Construztion of earth or vegetated terraces which
required a change in soil tillage methods were mainly
rejected, especially by small-scale producers with land
holdings running from top to bottom of slopes with widths of
25 to 100 meters. In such cases, contour farming will only
be applicable where adjoining producers agree to cultivate
their land jointly. Rock terraces on contour were
constructed on about 3,800 ha of land with an estimated



-8-
reduction in erosion from 10-12 to 5.5-7 tons/ha/yr. Where
arable lands were dest,ned, cereal production increased by
about 600 kg per hectare. Some 2,800 ha of land were
affected by vegetated terraces but these have all
disappeared. The project anticipated treatment of 41,500
ha.
Treatment of ravines. Ravines were treated through
construction of stone walls or more temporary structures
with wire or bales of straw. All of these actions reduced
further erosion but have a long-term effect only if the
sides and floor can be planted with trees, bushes or cactus.
The maintenance of this vegetation is only possible with the
cooperation of local farmers in controlling grazing by their
livestock and this was only partially achieved. Some 5,500
ha of ravines were treated far in excess of the 1,700 ha
projected at appraisal; however, there is no current
evaluation of ravine control sustainability.
Reforestation. This included actions on private, communal
and state lands and involved planting of pines, eucalyptus,
olives, almonds, acacia, atriplex, cactus and fruit trees.
This activity has not been well received on private lands
due to a lack of producer interest in woodlots, to small
holdings divided in many parcels with farmers feeling that
all land is needed for other production and perhaps lack of
agricultural extension contacts. A total of some 4,200 ha
have been planted, well below the projection of 22,000 ha.
Permanent Rasture or improved native range. The project
proposed that some 28,000 ha of permanent pasture and
improved range land would be developed, some of this to be
converted from cereal production. The office invested in
the establishment of 7,000 ha of pasture and range
improvement, however, data provided to the completion
mission indicated that only 1050 ha of permanent prairie
remain of which 390 ha will be converted to sylvopastoral
parcels and 115 ha to cereal production or fruit tree
plantations. Additionally, only 240 ha of improved native
range and 540 ha of sylvopastoral areas (planting with
atriplex, acacia and/or cactus or olive and almond trees)
remain. This component suffered severely from the lack of
prodticer group promotion, deficiencies in agricultural
extension and the lack of appropriate, tested technological
packages. Small-scale farmers, the majority with less than
5 ha divided into three to ten parcels were not able to
dedicate land to permanent pastures and without producer
group collaboration, it was not feasible to establish
natural range management practices on communal or state
forest land.



-9-
(b)   Agricultural Development
Research.  The research component never got off the ground
due to legal difficulties in "Office" contracting to
research institutions and the weak programning, staffing and
financing of these institutions. This had a major negative
impact on the availability of technological packages to
recommend to producers.
Agricultural Extension, The rapid expansion of the
geographical area covered by the project and the
restrictions on staff recruitment reduced extension
activities to a minimum. The technical staff were thinly
spread at the intervention centers, agencies, regional
offices and central headquarters and devoted less than 20
percent of their time to ad hoc extension activities. Only
in 1987 did the Government approve the recruitment of six
additional technicians to work full time in extension in six
micro-zones. (GTZ directly employed an additional six
agents to work in the Mogods-Kroumerie region). Even these
agents had difficulty in maintaining a planned program due
to assignment of their vehicles for other uses by higher
authorities. In 1987 consultants were contracted to assist
in identifying producer groups and train extension agents in
group promotion. This work is being continued in Mogods-
Kroumerie, but there has been no follow up in the Kef and
Beja regions.
Crop production intensity. The appraisal proposed that crop
productivity on the better quality less erodable soils would
be greatly increased due to adaptation of improved
technology and that cereal production would be decreased or
stopped on highly erodable slopen. Neither of these
objectives were achieved due to lack of crop production
subject matter specialists, weak agricultural extension and
the reluctance of subsistence farmers to accept the risk of
changing traditional production systems.
Farm input and eguiment suRply. This sub-component
functioned well. The intervention centers stocked and
distributed WFP rations and fertilizers and pesticides (the
latter sold or provided on BNA credit to producers) in a
timely manner. This availability of inputs produced an
average of 300-400 kg/ha increase in cereal production on
fertilized lands. The intervention centers also provided a
rental service of equipment for land preparation. This was
a useful service on flatter land but may have contributed to
erosion on more sloping areas. The Office with CRGR made
some efforts to introduce improved cultivation equipment for
animal traction but this did not receive adequate emphasis
or follow-up.



- 10 -
Agricultural credit. Short-term production credit was in
demand due to extension activities and the ready
availability of inputs at the local intervention centres.
The processing of this type of credit was handled entirely
by the Office for the first two seasons with a revolving
fund. Later an agreement was signed with BNA to handle the
credit activities, but credit approval became complicated
because BNA was not given responsibility on credit
approvals. The intervention centre chief prepared the
dossiers for producers in his area and passed them to BNA
for creditworthiness review, and processing. BNA had no
incentives in analyzing small loans requested with about 50
percent of these being below DT180. In reality, the
processing of such small loans at subsidized interest rates
is not economical for BNA. It would have been better to
group farmers into legal entities such as lending groups.
Loan recovery was unsatisfactory because of farmers
resistance to commercial short-term credit, and BNA's
inability to recover loans it did not grant itself. Except
for cisterns to transport water and purchase of livestock,
there was little demand for medium or long-term credit.
This was slightly influenced by the lack of land titles to
provide as guarantee to BNA but was primarily due to the
resistance of project beneficiaries to commit to long-term
indebtedness.
(c)   Livestock Development.  This component did not achieve projected
levels of production primarily due to less than anticipated
increases in forage availability, weak technical assistance and
lack of promotion of producers groups.
Medium-term credit for livestock purchases.  A total of
8,000 ewes and 250 heifers were financed for project
beneficiaries. Given the lack of improvement in forage
resources, this may have been too many. Sheep purchased
were generally no better than local flocks so that the goal
of genetic improvement was not achieved. Heifers were high
grade or pure bred and were not well adapted to the
management and nutritional levels on beneficiary farms.
Although there was no monitoring of production results from
these credit purchased animals, there are indications that
many of the sheep were sold to meet cash needs of the
producers.
Genetic improvement.  An average of 50-55 bulls (101 in
1989) were made available in 14 breeding centers throughout
the project area. It is estimated that some 30,000 cross-
bred animals were produced during the life of the project.
Females would have produced some 800 litres per year of
additional milk while males would have weighed about 150 kg



- 11 -
more at 18 months than local breeds. A total of 22
stallions and 38 jacks were also available to produce horses
and mules for animals for field work.
|  -  Milk marketing.  In order to stimulate milk production and
increase producer incomes, the Offices constructed 21 milk
collection centres of which 13 were equipped with cooling
tanks. Of these, only eight received adequate amounts of
milk to operate in 1989. Centers were built before a proper
evaluation was made of forage and livestock production
potential. A total of 15,520 tons of milk was collected
during project life, of this about 5,500 tons were from
small-scale beneficiaries and the rest from larger private
and state farms. Milk collections from larger-scale
producers allowed more economical operation of the centers.
Only centers which could cover all amortizacion and
operating costs were kept in operation.
-     Small animal production.  Although not anticipated at
appraisal, the project promoted bee and rabbit production as
an additional source of income for a few beneficiaries. A
total of 112 modern bee hives and 119 female rabbits were
distributed to producers financed by medium-term credit.
(d)   Roads.  The project achieved about 60 percent of the target for
road construction (660 km vs 1,070 kin) aimed at increasing access
to these backwards areas thereby allowing marketing activities,
delivery of inputs, and improving social welfare delivery of
health facilities etc).  The shortfall in road construction was
mainly due to delay in purchasing road equipment, higher than
anticipated costs per km, long hauls required for base materials,
shortage of staff and difficulty in maintaining and replacing
equipment.
(e)   Water Supply.  With a reduction in the complexity of water points
to be constructed, the project was able to far surpass appraisal
estimates. A total of 255 water sources were established or
improved (28 projected at appraisal). This was a major project
achievement given that water supplies in these areas were
inadequate in quality and quantity for the healthy maintenance of
the population and for the development of livestock. The impact
on time spent hauling water, human and animal health, hygiene of
the home and total number of beneficiaries was very positive--a
strong social impact.
(f)   Schools.  Twenty four classrooms were constructed i.e. 66 percent
of the SAR target. Many communities in the Program area had no
access to schools. The construction of classrooms have both
reduced the average distance travelled by students and the number
of students per classroom. The Ministry of Education has assumed
responsibility for operations and some 2,000 students have been



- 12 -
direct beneficiaries.
(g)   Technical Assistange and Training.  Two different sources of TA
operated in the project. In the region of Mogods-Kroumerie,
German assistance (GTZ) was provided continually with 4-6 long-
term expatriates; the performance of these consultants was highly
satisfactory. In the remaining two regions, the Office contracted
TA from various sources although most was coordinated by FAO.
Financing was provided by the Bank Loan, UNDP and bilateral
assistance. There were two long-term contracts (2 years), but
most of the TA was provided by short-term consultants. Generally,
the quality of these consultants was satisfactory. However,
short-term consultants were unable, within the time of their
contracts, to come to grips with problems that were essentially
long-term in nature. Successive project directors objected to
long-term TA and were not efficient in deciding upon the TA needed
or the contracting of short-term consultants. There was a
disparity created between the two systems to the point that
operationally it was as if there were two separate projects.
Staff in the Oued Zarga and Oued Tessa regions felt a great
disadvantage in TA, training and availability of vehicles and
equipment. The training component was not well implemented by the
Office due to the difficulty of relieving essential staff to
undertake training and the lack of enthusiasm of the various
directors for this activity.
(h)   Monitoring and Evaluation.  Project implementation data were
collected by the Technical and Infrastructure Departments
beginning in 1982 and provided reliable information while the
project area and activities were limited. However, as the
responsibilities of this staff increased and a greater area was
incorporated, there was a need for a specialized M/E unit. The
appraisal estimated that such a unit would be functional by
December 1982, but this only occurred in 1987. Even then the Unit
focussed on collecting management information data with improperly
selected indicators, other departments continued to duplicate
information, processing was slow and there was no feedback of
reports to the regions. All of these deficiencies created
resistance of field technicians to the filling out of multiple
information requests from which they saw no results. A program
for collecting and analyzing project impact and sustainability is
still not in place. In large part, delays in establishing an
effective M/E system has been due to a lack of project management
commitment to this activity.
(i)   Financial and Economic Rate of Return.  As mentioned earlier,
project impact data were not available. It was not possible for
the completion mission to obtain data allowing for a without and
with project comparison of farm models. The calculation of
financial rate of return was therefore not possible. The mission
working with project technical staff was able to make reasonable



- 13 -
estimates of production incieases in each of the three regions.
The estimated actual ERR is slightly lower than anticipated at
appraisal (6 percent at seven years compared with 7 percent at
five years or 16 percent at fifteen years). The reasons for lower
than expected production impact are discussed above as well as the
need to consolidate production related components in a follow-up
project.
7. Project Sustainabilitv
7.01        At appraisal, it was anticipated that project implementation,
within the initial micro-zones would integrate all actions and components so
that personnel and equipment for infrastructure development could be moved to
new micro-zones, producers groups would take over some public sector
activities and the project would only be required to maintain credit and
extension activities. With the rapid geographical expansion and a deficiency
in projected staff numbers, the integrated approach to planning, producer
participation and component implementation was not adequately followed. As a
result, physical infrastructure goals were largely met while those for
agricultural production and natural resource conservation fell short of
expectations. The physical and social infrastructure in place will contribute
to the increased welfare of the rural communities. Health should improve and
road construction will lead to a multiplier effect as farmers become less
subsistence oriented.
7.02        The sustainability of the actions under the first phase project
will depend upon continuation of the 15-year program providtd that: (a)
organizational problems can be overcome; (b) lessons learnt during the first
phase can be fully taken on board; and (c) the participative approach can be
replicated over the entire project area. Given that the SAR envisaged a 15-
year development period, it was not anticipated that the project be "fully-
sustainable" at the end of the first phase. Lessons have been learnt and, as
noted, there is now a sound basis for future development in which production
benefits should accelerate.
8. Bank Performance
8.01        As indicated in section 4, Bank performance in preparation and
appraisal was satisfactory. In general, Bank supervision missions and a mid-
term review identified implementation problems but for various reasons were
often not able to bring about Government or Office actions to remedy these.
There was discontinuity in supervision staffing during most of the project and
generally only one or ti, staff participated in supervision. In the light of
the multiplicity of components, it would have been desirable to have had more
intensive supervision and for various specialists to participate in missions
in order to identify and make recommendations to resolve technical and
administrative problems.



- 14 -
8.02        The lessons learned from project experience include: a) programs
or projects to be implemented in areas with a high concentration of small-
scale farmers must promote strong poducer groups if Government services and
credit are to be provided efficiently and in order for producers to become
collectively responsible for mechanization, input supply and product
marketing; b) projects which depend upon a participative approach and producer
group promotion require a long start up and involvement of sociology and group
dynamics specialists with real life experience in the particular culture; c)
the program approach was appropriate in order to allow for slow start up but
appraisal estimates of projected production accomplishments in the five-year
project were optimistic and underestimated the difficulties in organization
set up and staffing; d) the problem associated with a, b and c above are
further complicated when small-scale producers are disadvantaged by
topography, soil quality, education and poverty; e) soil erosion works and
investments must include a relatively high public sector participation since
financial results on individual farms are often not immediately demonstrated;
f) because of past fragmented and largely unsuccessful government assistance
programs in the region, the project needed to rapidly implement actions of
clear interest and benefit to the population in order to obtain their
participation. In this case, the construction of roads and schools and
improvement of water sources caused the potential beneficiaries to be more
receptive to changes in attitudes and production systems. Unfortunately, the
failure to adequately implement agricultural extension and watershed
protection activities reduced the advantage of these new attitudes; g) credit
systems should be adapted to the particular needs of small-scale farms
requiring very small production credit loans and without land titles 'zo
guarantee medium and long-term investment loanis; and h) the early
implementation of an effective M/E system and provision of adequate
supervision (from the standpoint of time and staff specialities) are both
crucial for effective project implementation.
9. Borrower Performance.
9.01        The Government's greatest strength on this project was its
commitment to help develop this backward region of the country by first
reducing soil erosion generally and slowing down the sedimentation rate of the
Sidi Salem reservoir specifically and, second, complying with provisions for
programmed and approved budgetary support. The main weaknesses were in: a)
failure to maintain continuity of qualified managers; b) failure to monitor
and correct deficiencies in organization; c) inadequate provision of technical
staff (the freeze on new recruitment was understandable since Government was
required to reduce expenditure, however, redeployment of staff would have been
possible with adequate commitment to project needs; d) failure to understand
the necessity for and to promote producer groups; and e) inadequate field
level monitoring and evaluation of project progress from the Ministry level.
The Borrower performed well during preparation and appraisal. The lessons to
be learned by the Borrower from project experience are: a) the necessity for
strong producer groups where the majority of farmers are small-scale and the
need to provide adequate numbers and specialties of staff to promote such
groups; b) the implementation of actions of national interest (in this case



- 15 -
reduction of soil erosion) must be based on actions acceptable to the affected
population because of their immediate, medium-and long-term effect on producer
income; c) specific public sector activities which have an immediate impact on
the populations's living standards (roads, schools, water points) are helpful
in convincing the target group of the seriousness of Government's efforts and
in obtaining an open mind to recommended clbanges in production systems and in
attitudes toward resource conservation and use; d) continuity of an effective
organization and high quality project management is essential for efficient
utilization of investment and operating funds; and e) differential sources and
levels of funding and/or technical assistance should not be allowed in order
to maintain harmony, staff morale and standard implementation procedures
throughout the project area.
10. Project Docuinentation. Data. Accounts and Procurement
10.01       The staff appraisal report was used by the Office as a guide
during project implemer.tation and rroved to be useful. Unfortunately, the
Bank did not adequately clarify that it was only a guide and that changes in
activities and procedures required by experience were expected. Project
management often stuck too close to the letter rather than the spirit of the
document. For unexplained reasons, the Implementation Volume annexes were
never translated nor forwarded to the Borrower. These could have been of
great value during implementation.
10.02.      As indicated earlier in the report, the M/E unit was late in being
established so that adequate reliable data on physical implementation and
project impact were not available. This greatly complicated the evaluation of
project impact and preparation of the PCR. On the other hand, disbursement
data, financial records, project audits and procurement were fully
satisfactory.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
tIORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1997-TUN)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translated from the French Version)
MEMORANDUM CONCERNING THE  EVALUATION OF PHASE  I OF THE NORTHWEST  RURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT'
The first phase of the Northwest Rural Development Project involved
actions in the following component areas:
-     Basic infrastructure measures  (construction,  farm access roads,
water supply points);
-     Water and soil conservation and reforestation measures;
-     Agricultural  producLion  measures  (livestock  production,  crop
production and pasture improvement);
-     Monitoring  and  suppcrt  measures  (extension  services,  credit,
verification of land tenure, research, training, technical assistance
and monitoring and evaluation.
During this first phase, the Office conc.ntrated its efforts on the
complementarity of and linkages among actions in the various micro-zones. The
results achieved' varied from one component to !nother, depending on the special
characteristi.cs of the subzones (land tenure considerations, resources used,
etc).
1.    Basic Infrastructure
Project performance with respect to farm access roads was
satisfactory (711 km completed out of the 765 km foreseen in the SAR). Problems
relating to the terrain and the shortage of equipment for the work units are
still the main obstacles to program implementation.
*     A detailed analytical report prepared by the Office is available in the
Project File.
.1/    Cumulative achievements as at December 31, 1990.



-  17  -
Water supply point deveiopment (267 compared to the 15 planned) and
school construction (16 schools + 22 claserooms compared to the 10 planned)
exceeded project targets, thanks to the positive impact of these actions on the
beneficiaries, who increased their support and contributions to the costs
involved.
2.    Reforestation and Water and Soil Conservation Actions
If the planting done in gullies is included, the SAR estimate of
5,472 ha was far exceeded (4,370 ha plus 2,251 ha of gullies planted with acacia
cyanophylla). This action primarily involved public land, similar measures on
privately-owned land being pending.
Water and soil conservation actions were highly diversified because
of the special characteristics of the regions and the uncertainty that often
surrounded  land tenure.   Performance  in this area also  far exceeded SAR
estimates.
3.    Livestock Production and Pasture Improvement
The objective of this component was partially met in terms of stock
improvement, with the number of bulls increasing from 12 in 1982 to 120 in 1990
and the number of inseminations totaling 65,432 (approximately 40,000 of which
involved cross-breeding). Credit distribution focused on the acquisition of 249
pregnant heifers, 9,327 ewes, 109 rams and 207 modern beehives, this being
ac-hieved despite the unavailability of good breeding stock on the market.
In the area of pasture improvement, plans to extrapolate from the
Sedjenene pilot project experience (permanent pastures) encountered numerous
practical problems (edaphic and climatic conditions and land tenure
considerations). A wide variety of actions were therefore carried out (inclusion
of forage crops in the cropping pattern, improvement of natural rangeland and
planting of trees and pastures).   Performance figures include:   2,845 ha of
permanent pastures, 2,236 ha of improved rangeland and 660 ha of silvo-pastoral
development.   However, the reduction in WFP support, the elimination of the
subsidy for th3 purchase of forage crop seed in 1986-87 and the prolonged drought
have all seriously affected development efforts.   This resulted in certain
pastures being taken back by their claimants and a sigrificant reduction in the
areas earmarked for this component.
4.    Agricultural Development and Support Actions
The establishment of "intervention" centers within each micro-zone
made services accessible to project beneficiaries and ensured that the project's
agricultural extension role could be performed. The introduction of extension,
adapted and structured in accordance with the specific characteristics of the
project actions being undertaken in the individual micro-zone was not
accomplished as planned, however, and only six micro-zones were able to benefit
from intensive extension on an experimental basis from 1987 onward.
The fact that agricultural credit is not adapted to specific needs
is still one of the main constraints to crop diversification and intensification.



- 18 -
The agricultural research component did not match development efforts
in the various components.   It focused primarily on adapting animal traction
equipment to mountain farming, in conjunction with the Centre de Recherche du
G6nie-Rural, and on the impact of CES operations (Travaux) in collaboration with
the Instltut de Recherche Forestier, the Direction des Sols (Department of Soils)
and ORSTOM.
5.    ParticiDation of the Population
The participation of the population has occurred on an informal
basis and has been both direct (work participation days, construction materials,
etc.) and indirect (leasing of pastures, plots of land, etc.).
The value of this participation over the last five years is estimated
at D 2 million.
6.    Monitoring and Evaluation
The Office was rather late in establishing a monitoring and
evaluation system after the start-up of the Northwest Project. The incorporation
of the monitoring system within the administrative, accounting and financial
organization of the Office has therefore not been studied.
The monitoring of program actions in physical terms was handled
quite well but certain aspects of the project's impact that are more difficult
to investigate will be covered by a more extensive effort during Phase II.



-19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION-RUPORT
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1997-TUN)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Number   Yoar of           Prpoe           Loan Amount          Status
apprval                         (US$ miion)
- TUmN      1983    Central Tuia                   13.7        Under
irgation Projec                        implementation
zs0 - TUN       1985    Northwest Ariculturai           83          Under
Production Project                     implementauion
2573 - TUN      1985    Irrigtion Managemen            22o          Under
and Improvement                        implementation
Project
2605 - TlJN     1985    Gabes Irrnbaton Project        2L7          Under
implementation
2865 - TUN      1987    Fourth Agiculnural             30.0         Under
Credit Project                         implementation
2S70 - TUN      1987    Forey Development              20.0         Under
Project                               implementation
2962 - TUN      1988    Sector Adjument Loan          150.0         Under
implementation
3078 - TUN      1989    Second Sector                  84.0         Under
Adjustment Loan                        implementadon
347-TUN        1990    Research and Ee =o              17.0  Not yet effective
Project



-  20  -
2. Project Timetable
Item                Planned Date            Rei4sed Date            Actual Date
Reconnissance                                                                 VI 1978
Idend cation                                                                  X 1978
Preparation                    X 1978                                         VII 1979
Pre-appraisal                                                                 VI 1980
Appraisal                      V 1980                 VI 1980                 Dx 1980
Nigocations                   m  1981                                         IV 1981
Board Approval                 V 1981                                         V 1981
Loan Signature                 V 1981                                         VII 1981
Loan Effectiveness            vn 1981                     -m 1982
Loan Clsg                     rx 1987                     -xn 1989
Loan Completion               1m19 -88                                        VI 1990



- 21 -
3. Credit Disbursements
A Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
MDA Fbc             c Qmzw Euii           S                                      AcuaW                      co        
192              xI 1981                     .
m 11982                           . 
Vl1198K2            500         500                                                       0 
IX 198              550       1SW0                                                        0
XII 1982           lt250       2 100            437          437             3           21
m  1983            1  0so     3 L0            2101        2 538             IS           81
VI1 9              1 05       4 200            521         3 059            19           73
1984              K 1993             1040       5 240             766        3 S52            23           74
XII 1983           1 040      6 280                        3 &52            23           61
m  1984            1 040      7 320            957        4 782            29            65
VI 1984            1040       8 360            67         S 409             33           65
18S              K 1984             1160       9 S20             230        5 639            34           59
XI 1984            1160       10 680            609        6 248            38           59
m  1985            1160      11840             388        6 636            40            56
VI 1985            1160      13 000            877        7 S3             46            58
1986              K 1980             1 240      14 20            457         797C             48           56
xC1I19S5           1240       15480             179        8 149            S0           53
m  1986            1 240     16 720           1 042       9 191            56            55
VI 1986            1 240     17 960            800        9 991             61           S6
197                    1986          1 510      19 470              6        9 991            61           51
XI[ 1986           1 510     20 980             582       10 579            64           50
m  1987            1510      22 490            518        11 097            67           49
V'  1987           1 510     24 000             91        11 188           68            47
1988              K 1987                             -          1114        12 302            75           51
XE 1987                            -            232       12 534            76           52
m1188                  *          *            750        13 284            81           55
VT 1988                      -                  289       13 573            83           57
1988              K 1988                 -           .            693       14 266            87           59
M 119B8                                        1 186     15 452            94           64
1P1989                 -                                 154S2             94            64
V1 1989                -          -                       15 452            94           64
1990              DX19S9                 .           .                      15452             94           64
XM  1989                                        534       1S 986            97           67
l1990                  -          .               -      LS986             97            67
VI 1990                           -            460       16 446           100            69



Credit disbunememts
B Disbursements by category
*                                      ___ , .. .  .__________________________________
Category            FY         FY      FY      FY      FY      FY       FY       FY    TOTAL    SAR         Actual as
1982 & 1983   1984          1985   1986   1987    1988    1989      10            EstAmst   Estoate
Iri'    j1~~~~4  ~~~'S                uz    TOTAL   EstImat~~~~Esl%mof
............... __US$' 0   ..........                            %
Construction of            319      522    282      345     197   1 036       196    651      3 548     3 100         114
buildings
Vehicles, equipment      2 460      699    328      313     372     183       21     174      4 550     7 300         62
and livestock
Soil conservation,         233      907    659   1 187      495     512      229    482       4 704     4 700         100
forest and pastures
M. and L. term credit        -        -    110       77       -    269        91      122      669      1 800          37
Incremental ST credit        -        -    293      195       -    292       288     479      1 547       400        387
Consultants' services       26      163    351      203     113      94       60      85      1 095     2 4cX1         46
Studies                     21       59      81     158      20       -         -       -       339     1 000          34
Agricultural research        -        -       -       -       -       -         I      -          I       500          0
Unallocated                  -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -          -     2 800           -
Sub-total                3 059   2 350  2 104   2 478   1 197   2 386        886   1 993    16 453    24 000           69
"Fund                                                                                           - 7
TOTAL                                                                                        16 446



-  23  -
4. Project Implementation
Indicators              Unit           Appraisal     Actual or PCR
I                 I   Estimate I/      Estimate 2/   _
Buildings                     Number                  25              40
Milk Collection Centres       Number                  14              21
Water Points                  Number                  23             278
Classrooms                    Number                  36              24
Roads                           kms                1065              657
Animal Reproduction           Number                  23               14
Centres
Bulls Acquired                Number                 211             232
Maximum Bulls in Service      Number                  50             101
Reforestation                   ha                 9 468            4 324
Pastures                         ha               28 140            7 000  .3/
Erosion Control                  ha               10 470           10 115   4/
Ravine Correction                ha                 810             2 015   4/
Intensified Cropping             ha               11 175            2 000
Microzones Affected           Number                 45               42
Area Covered by Project          ba               90 000          123 000
Stamfg
Central Directors and Staff   Number                  71              77
Regional Directors and        Number                 45               51  :/
Planning
Subject-Matter Specialists    Number                  40               8
Extension Agents              Number                 59               19
Credit Agents                 Number                 22               20
Veterinary Aides              Number                  23               0
Milk Collection Agents        Number                  9                8
Monitoring and Evaluation     Number                  7                4
1] Based on seven years of projected 15-year programme.
2/ Based on incomplete data.
.3/ Reported to supervision missions. Office data to completion mission indicates
1 330 ha actually 3dsL
I4/ Actual susainability not known.
/ No planners at present except in Mogods-Kroumene.



_ 24 _
S. Project Costs and Financing
A Project Costs
Item             SAR Esdmate           1        Aca Costs              Actwa 
Costs as %
of SAR
Estimates
I___________   Local I Foreig  I Total    LoalI Forcign    Total    _
Infrastrucmms       2 580    2 039    4 619    5 363    2 357       7 720        167
roads, schools, wvater
supplies, itorvention
centres
Soil conervadon:    6 278    1 252    7 530    2 420    3 675       6 095         81
pastures forestry
and woodlots
Equipment           3 677    6 258    9 935    1 362    3 493       4 855         49
Construction: Ofrice    198    156      354      839      606       1 445        408
buildinp
Extension ;/           51      202      253      655       70         725        287
Rescarch              289      199      498        3       14          17          3
studias               10       398      498       48      272         320         64
Technicul asitance           1 953    1 953       21    3 518       3 539        178
On-farm investment  1 064    1 067    2 131      502      551       1 053         49
/
Revolving fund for    124      495      619      991    1 333       2 324        375
ST acedi
Operadon and       11 978    3 482   15 460    7849                 7 849        253
maintenance cosM 4/
TYTOTAL            26 349   17 501   43 850   20 053   15889       35 942         82
J/ Based on first seven years of projected 15-year prograumme.
2/ Actual costs include purchasing costs of bulls and rams their maintenance costs and costs of
deaionstraion plots whereas SAR estimates only cover the first itemL
.3/ Exclusive of on-farm investments finced without agricultural rediL
_4/Including World Food Programme rations to the value of D 1.2 million distnbuted by the Office to
casual labourers to supplement their wages.



25
5. Project Costs and Financing
B. Financing
Source           Planned (Loan Revised Data Actual 2/ Actual as
Agreement) 1/                           % of
l ______________________   _____________  ___________  ________   Planned
l                        US'OOO_e_                         t. 11slm.  -1y
Government I/                    31 500      31 500    25 099         80
Farmers                           4 300       4 300     1 184         28
IBRD                             24 000      17 540    16 446         69
German Technical Assistance       1 700        1700     3 996        235
ITOTAL                           61500        55040    46725          76
_,/ As estimated at appraisal for 15 5-year project; appraisal exchange rat.: USS 1.0 =
D 0.4.
.2/ Actual expenses of 1"t 7-year project; average project exchange rate: US$ 1.0 = D
o.77.
I/ Including World Food Programme rations to the value of D. 1.2 million distributed
by the Office to casual labourers to supplement their wages.



26
6. Project Results
A. Dlrec Benefits
Indikators        Unit    Apprisal Estimate  Closing   Funl Development
Esdmte        Estimate
Syear    7year    7er  SARI/   ['CR2!/
Increased student      Number 1 260         2 160    1 930       -
popuation
Roads                    km      745        1065      657     1940
Vehicle traMc        vehicles/day
Intervillagc roads
- Mogods-Kroumerie                 na.         -       95        -
- Oued Zarga/Khil                  nLa.        -      212        -
- Oued Tessa                       La          -       42
Access roads
- Mogods-Kroumirie                 na-.                19
- Oued Zarga/Khil                  na.         -       45        -
- Oued Tcssa                         a         -       34        -
Improved bulls .3/     Number   115          221      232      923
Revolving Fund for    '000 Diuars  177       618    2 324    2 925
Production Credit
Medium- and long-term  '000 Dinars  808     2 128     954   20 235
credi (cumulative)
Uvestock and Crop
Productioa Increase:
-Milk                 '000 litres 2 717   6800    5000    67930         5000
- Beef                  tons     354         885      700    4465         700
- Lamb                   tons    280         700      300    2780         300
- Wheat                  tons    (412)     (1 030)  6 000  (10 300)      u 000
- Chick Peas            tons      108        270      500    2 700        500
1/ 15-year programme.
3/ Assuming no second phase projecL
3/ Total number supplied, not in use at one time.



_  27 -
6. Project Results
B. Economic ImpaCt
Economic Rate of Return          SAR Estimate    PCR Estimate
15-year programme                             16
5-year project (without any follow-up)         7
7-year project (without any follow-up)         -               6
The main assumptions forming for the basis calculation of the economic rates of return
are summarized hereunder:
(a)      Staff Appraisal Report
Economic benefits equal the incremental value of crop, forestry and livestock
production projected to result from the programme, valued at economic
prices.
Costs include incremental farm input costs, Programme investment costs and
operating costs, also valued at economic prices.
The benefit build-up period projected for agricultural production is
conservative involving a combination of:
the 15 years required to complete investments in all of the
Programme's micro-zones;
-     the 6-year period required to begin Programme innovation on all
participating farms in each micro-zone;
-     the assumption that only 90%  of farms would participate in
Programme actions at full development;
the 6 to 10 year benefit build-up period on individual farms after
innovations are begun.
Benefits, from reduced sedimentation of the Sidi Salem dam reservoir
resuting from the Progr=xme are estimated as the incremental amount of
water stored multiplied by the economic value per mn3 of water.



- 28 -
(b)      Project Completion Report
-        In the absence of a second phase, the Office would be dismantled and all its
functions taken over by the CRDAs. It is likely that no emphasis would them
be put on assistance to small farmers and therefore any further production
increase would be marginal.
Economic benefits have only taken into account the incremental value of
crop and livestock production resulting from the project, valued at economic
prices; from 1990 to 2012, economic benefits are assumed to stay constant.
Costs include Programme investment costs and operating costs adjusted to
deduct taxes and duties and incremental production costs, estimated to
amount to 25% of the incremental value of crop and livestock production;
from 1990 to 2012, operating costs are estimated to amount to 40% of those
incurred by the Office during the last three years.
In the 'without project situation", no account has been taken of any crop and
livestock production decrease in spite of the expected impact of erosion.



- 29 -
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant               Subject         Deadline for jstatus
Loan Agement                              Compliance
Section 3.01 (b)      Credit allocation to BNA  1/1/82    Compliance in 1984
and credit agreemenL.
Section 3.02          Employ consultants           -      Consultants contracted.
Emphasis shifted from
long-term to short-term.
Section 3.03 (c)      Establish M/E uniL       12/31/82   Unit established 1985.
Functional 1987.
Section 3.03 (d)      Borrower should provide    6/30/90   Completion Report
Completion Report.                 prepared by Office 6/90.
Section 3.05          Government to assure        -      Full compliance.
availability of land for
roads and buildings
Section 3.07          Schools to be operated by   -      Full compliance.
Ministry of Education.
Section 3.09          Agreement between        4/30/82   Due to legal and
Office and INRAT.                  institutional difficulties
agreement was never
signed.
Section 4.02 and 4.03    Borrower to maintain and  -     Full compliance.
audit accounts.
Section 4.05          Borrower to review user     -      Discussions held
charges with Bank to seek          regularly. Compliance
coverage of operation and          reached for some
maintenance costs.                 components but in others
national and regional
agency policies and
practices prevented full
compliance.
Section 4.06          Borrower to take actions    -      Only partial compliance
to allow premium price             achieved due to national
for fresh milk                     milk pricing policies.
Further compliance
reached under ASAL I
and I.
Section 4.08          Borrower to undertake       -      Completion mission
studies under Part K of            unable to determine if
projecL                            complied with.
Section 4.09          Borrower to catise BNA       -      Partial compliance.
to adequately develop
lending activides.



30
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
IdutficaioA       30.7                                                                                      30.7
Pmpeyd           10S.7                                                                                      10S.7
Appil             64.7                                                                                      64.7
Ncguaan            2.6 .6
Sub4l            203.7              -                     -        -         -        -         -          203.7
SupcrAsaon          .0    14.1    12.2      6.7      .6       S.6      17.4      9.8       1.4      1.4    77.3
Pwjca               .6       2      12       .0      I2                 1.8      -         -         -       4.1
AdminiUati
Annual              -       -                                            .5       I                  -         .7
t[t pl a neatiabon
Subdtel             .7    143      U.4      6.8      8.8      S.6      19.7     10.0       1.4      L4      82.1
TOTAL            204.4    143      13.4     6.8      8        S.6      19.7     10.0       1.4      1.4    285.8



- 31 -
& U_d 8 D- R
___ ~~~~~~~. I1   . _
S&d cc    Yew    N                        Fvio d PC   m &b Siim"dm r                     1_ l de/   Td
PC||pOW        (da)       rl j/ r1 P tm
Pre4pprs"        V119S0             2             28      E,L       '                                        -
Aprameal         Ex 1980            6             132      E,.A.LP.R            .              .
Sup cvmaI        DC 1981            1             4       E                     1              2
2          )a 1981           1              5       F                     1              2
3           11982            2              4       E,L                   1              2
4          DC 19B2           2              7       L.A                   1              2
S          111983             1             2       A
6          VI 1983           4              7       LA.D                  1              2
7          111984            3              5       L.FD                 2             2             M
8          IV 1984            1             2       F                     -              .             -
9          Xa1984            3              6       L.r.E                 1              1             M
10         EC 19SS            2             S       L.D                   2              2             M
11          X 1986            1             10      L                     3
12         m  L917            1             4       F
13         VI 1987            4             10      L,EO                  3
14         IV 1988            2             11      LIE                   2              .             -
1S          11989             2             28      LA                    2              .
jl        o Emo  L Eiv_ao& Special  A: Ap1m:           L Rural Engcr; Pk Pago  Spe,ali
- Rmd S.p.4al   P. Fon=r; 01 Othea.0
L./ Lpfoblem free or manor probtg 2: Moderat prvbems 3: Major probems
s/l 1l:p bf      2. Stioaa1  31 Detwriowtng
5 1/~ P:nancial; M  Ma: nageria  T: TecnicF; pk Politicl; 0: Other.



- 32 -
9. Economic Analysis
A. Economic Prices of Cerea 
(in 1990 consvant prices)
Un ik  Hard Wheat Soft Wheat   Barley
Projected [ntercational Market Price in year  US S/Ton     179         163         98
2 0002/ .3/
Adjustment for quality 4/                   US S/Ton        -          - 33
International Freight & Insurance Costs ./  US S/Ton       20          20          20
Border price 6/                             US S/Ton       199         150        118
D/Ton        159         120         94
Port, Handling c Local Transport Costs 2/    D/Ton          12          12         12
Import Party Price at Depot                  D/Ton         171         132        106
Transport, Handling & Marketing Costs (Depot   D/Ton        11          11         11
- Farm) ./
Farm-gate Price                              D/Ton         160         121         95
Tunisia is a net importer of cereals.
2/ Commodity Prices and Price Projections - Febmary 1990. International Commodity Markets Division
World Bank for wheat a 1 CWRS Ex stores St Laurence.
5/ International market price of Hard Wheat and Barley assumed to be 10 % higher and 40 % lower
respectively than that of Soft Wheat.
.4/ Assumed to be 20 % of the price of n 1 CWRS.
,5/ Assumed to amount to 15 % of the Soft Wheat FOB price.
./ At the exchange rate of US S LO - D 0.8.
2/ Assuming the depot would be located near to TUNIS and that port, handling & local transport costs
amount to 10 % of the Soft Wheat CIF price.
./ Assuming an avrage distance of 100 km betwe  the project area and the depot.



33  -
9. Economc Analysis
B. Economic Price of Fresb Milk I/
(in 1990 constant prices)
International Market Price 2/
- Whole Milk Powder (2S % butterfat)                        US S/Ton          1 850
- Skim Milk Powder                                          LIS srron        1800
Interational Freight & Insurance Costs ./                    US S/Ton           180
Border Price
- Whole Milk Powder                                         US S/Ton         2 030
- Skim Milk Powder                                          US S/Ton         1 980
- Mixure of Whole and Skim Milk Powders .4/ /               US S/Ton         2 010
D/Ton           1 60G
Port, Handling & Local Transport Costs o/                     D/Ton              32
Economic cost of Milk Powder at Dairy                         D/Ton            1 640
Value of 1 0   litres of Reconstituted Milk
- Milk Powder7/                                   213
- Reconsdtution Cost .8/
Total                                           213        D/100 1            213
Value of Additional Butterfat Contained in the Fresh Milk,2/  D/1 000 1          26
Premium.wQ/                                                  D/10001             43
Cost of Transport (Farm - Dairy) f/                          D/1000 1            25
Farm-gte Prce                                                D/1000             2 57
/ Tunisia is a net importer of dairy producs
2/ Current prices on the world markeL
}/ Assumed to be 10 % of FOB Milk Powder Price.
4/ On the basis of 60 % Whole Mik Powder and 40 % Skim Milk Powder.
:/ At the excange rate of US S L0 - D 0.8.
/ Assumed to be 2 % of the CIF Milk Powder Price
7/ 130 kg of Milk Powder per 1 000 Utres of reconsttuted milk
J/ Assumed to equal the processing cost of fresh mil
2/ Assuming that 13 % butterfat is valued at D 1 450 per ton.
.I/ A premium of 20 % takes into considerton the consumeres preference for fresh over reconsdtuted milk
/ Assuming an average dance of 100 km and a wansport cost of D 0.25 per 1 000 I and kmL



34
9. Economic Aalysis
C. Economic Price of Beef/
(in 1990 constant priacs)
Projected International Market Price in year 2 0002/      US S/Ton             2 000
International Freight & Insurance Costs                   US S/Ton               35
Border Price J/                                           US S/Ton             2 035
D/Ton              1 628
Port, Handling & Local Transport Costs .4/                 D/Ton                326
Import Party price at Abattoir - Carcass                   D/Ton               1 954
- Livc Weight ./                D/Ton              1 016
Slaughtering Casts /                                      D/Ton
Cost of transport (Farm - Abattoir) 7/                     D/Ton                 18
Farm-gate Price      - Live Weight                         D/Ton                998
-CarcassS/                            D/Ton              1 919
Tunisia is a net importer of beef.
2/ Current Tuisaian import prices adjusted to take into account the projected increase in meat prices (11
between 1990 and 2000 (International Commodity Markets Division  World Bank - February L990).
J/ At an exchange ratt of US S LO = D 0.8.
.4/ Assumed to be 20 % of the CIF price.
./ Assuming a ratio Live Weight/Carcass of 52 %.
/ Assumed to equal the value of by-products.
2/ Assuming an average distance Farm-Abattoir of 50 km and a transport cost of 0.35 D per ton and km.



_ 35 _
9. Economic Analysis
D. Economic Price of Mutton
Since Tunisia does not import or expori sheep or mutton, no data on costs
are available. Therefore the economic price of mutton has been estimated by adjusting
the economic price of beef by the ratio between the world market prices for the two
commodities which shows a premium of about 20% for mutton over beef.
Farm-gate price
- Live Weight = D 998/Ton x 1.2 = D 1 198/Ton
rounded to D 1 200/Ton.
- Carcass   = D 1 919/Ton x 1.2 = D 2 303/Ton
rounded to D 2 300/Toni
E. Economic Price of Chick Peas
It is assumed that the economic price of Chick Peas is equal to its market
price.
Farm-gate price = D 550/lQn.



36
9. Jr.rnomic Analysis
F. Cash-flow for Economic Rate of Return
19/83"  198 1985  986 1 987   1988  1989  1o0o.
O 1990 constant DIM00 _
Value of AddiUdonal Production 2/
Cereas II                            .            90   174  362  536  804   804
Chick Pea                            -            33   61   121  182  275   275
BEf                                      -        154  307  595  902  1 343  1 343
Lamb                                         .    69   161  299  460  690   690
Milk                                 *            141  283  565  848  1 285  1 285
Totad                                -            487  986  1 941 2 928 4 397  4 397
instment Costs"                    7 941   3 001 3 823 3 567 3 166 2 909 3 263    -
Opeutiag Costs 5/                  1 401    64   815  736  1 073 1 039 1 356  450
Addid  Costs of Production6'         -            121  245  483   718  1 093  1 093
|am~                               - 9 342   3 645 -4 Z72 .3 562 .2 781 .1 748 .315  2 854
" Iacluding expenses incurred in 1982.
21 Economic prices are detailed in Tables A, B, C~ D and E.
3 Cereals are valued at an average price of D 134/ton on the assumption that there
is 50O Hard Wheat, 25%o Soft Wheat and 25% Barley.
4Invesmzent coss in curent dinars have been adjusted for their foreiga part by the
GSMUV inde (World Bank, January 1990) and for their local part by the Tunisian
inflalon rate index Taxes and duties are assumed to represent 25%/l of total costs.
'Operaing cost in current dinars have been adjustea by the Tums    inflation rate
index. Taxe are assumed to amount to 10% of total costs.
4 Assumed to amount to 259% of values of additonai production.



