Document of                 FlL            UUI6>T
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3316a-TUN
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE I
April 30, 1981
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Proiects Department
Agriculture II Division
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 30, 1981)
Currency Unit               =     Tunisian Dinar (D)
D 0.40                      =     US$1
D 1                         =     US$2.5
D 1,000                     =     2,500
US$1,000                    =     D 400
US$1,o000,000                     D 400,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                          British/U.S. System
1 meter (m)                     =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)        =     0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  =     2.47 acres
1 litre (1)                     =     0.2200 Imperial gallons (I gal)
0.2642 U.S. gallons (gal)
1 ton (t)                       =      1,000 kg/2,205 pounds (lb)
1 cubic meter (m3)              -      35.315 cu ft
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AU           =  Animal Unit
BNT          =  Banque Nationale de Tunisie (National Bank of Tunisia)
CLCM         =  Caisse Locale de Crédit Mutuel (Mutual Credit Bank)
CNEA         =  Centre National des Etudes Agricoles (National Center for
Agricultural Study)
CRDA         =  Commissariat Régional au Développement Agricole (Regional
Agricultural Development Commission)
DPC          =  Direction des Ponts et Chaussées (Highways and Bridges
Department
FOSDA        =  Fonds Spécial de Développement Agricole (Special Fund for
Agricultural Dévelopment)
GERMAN T.A.  =  German Government Technical Assistance
INRAT        =  Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique de Tunisie
(National Agricultural Research Institute of Tunisia)
OED          =  Operations Evaluation Department
O&M          =  Operation and Maintenance Costs
PPAR         =  Project Performance Audit Report
SCM          =  Société de Caution Mutuelle (Mutual Guarantee Association)
SONAM        =  Société Nationale de Motoculture (National Company
Providing Tractor and Harvesting Services)
UCP          =  Coopérative de Production (Production Cooperative)
UNDP         =  United Nations Development Program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
THE NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                         1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CONTEXT                                      1
A.  Place of Agriculture in the Economy                              1
B.  Agricultural Performance                                         2
C. Sector Issues Relevant to the Northwest Rural
Development Program                                            4
D. Bank Involvement in Agriculture, and OED Comments
on Previous Projects                                          10
III.  THE AREA TO BE DEVELOPED UNDER THE PROGRAM                          12
A.  Location, Climate, and Land Resources                           12
B.  Population, Revenue, Employment                                 12
C.  Land Use and Ownership                                          13
D.  Production                                                      14
E.  Government Services and Infrastructure                          14
F. The Sedjenane Range Management and Beja Soil
Conservation Projects                                         15
IV.  THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                             17
A.  Introduction                                                    17
B.  Program Strategy                                                18
C.  Description of Program Components                               18
D. Implementation in Physical Terms and Cost
Estimates                                                     23
E.  Cost Recovery                                                   25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in September/
October 1980, composed of Messrs. K. Cleaver (Mission Leader, Economist),
J. Doolette (Agriculturalist), J. Hall (Livestock Expert), R. Knighton
(Roads Engineer), H. Plusquellec (Irrigation Engineer), C. Rémy (Loan
Officer), and M. Thiault (Consulting Agriculturalist). Assistance was
obtained from Mr. F. Hayer (German Technical Assistance).



V.  FINANCING AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE FIVE-YEAR
TIKE SLICE PROJECT                                                26
A.  The Five-Year Project                                           26
B.  Financing                                                       27
C.  Procurement                                                     28
D.  Disbursements                                                   30
VI.  IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM                                             31
A.  The Development Authority                                       31
B.  Status of Preparation of Micro-Zone Plans                       33
C.  Land Tenure                                                     33
D.  Participation by, and Organization of,
the Population                                                34
E.  Agricultural Credit: Implementation                             35
F.  Extension and Research                                          36
G.  Soil Conservation, Livestock and Afforestation                  37
H.  Monitoring, Evaluation, Accounts, and Audit                     37
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                                           38
A.  Introduction                                                    38
B.  Production                                                      39
C.  Returns to Farmers and Incentives to Participate
in the Program                                                41
D.  Employment                                                      43
E.  Distribution of Benefits                                        43
F.  Economic Analysis                                               44
G.  Program and Project Risks                                       45
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS                                                     47
ANNEXES ATTACHED TO APPRAISAL REPORT
1. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of Bank Loan
2. Documents in Project File
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE (charts)
MAPS 15395, 15396



Annexes in the l]mplementation Volume
3.  Agriculture Sector Background and Issues
4.  Pasture and Forage Production
5. Livestock Subsector
6. Project S>oil Conservation
7. Project Forestry
8. Project Agricultural Intensification and Land Use
9.  Agricultural Extension and Research
10. Project Roads
Il. Project Pasture Improvement
12.  Project Livestock Development
13.  Project Technical Assistance and World Food Program
14.  Agricultural Credit
15. Project Farm Budgets
16. Implementation Schedule for Overall Project
17. Project Cost Table
18. Project Financing and Cost Recovery
19. Legislation Regulating the Operation of "Offices" in Tunisia
20. Marketing, Input Supply, Prices, Economic Analysis, and
Project Justification
21. Indicators for the Monitoring and Evaluation System
Maps Referred to in Implementation Annexes.



i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ilb  



TTUj'7TSIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE I
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The proposed Project would help finance a 5-year time slice of a
15-year Development Program in Tunisia's Northwest region which aims to
increase the income and improve the nutrition, health, and education of the
population while reducing soil erosion and thereby arresting the decline in
agricultural productivity. The Development Program would also create
employment possibilities, develop local energy resources, and reduce the
sedimentation rate of the Sidi Salem reservoir. It would also strengthen the
services of the Ministry of Agriculture in the region, particularly its
extension, research, livestock, credit and marketing services. The
Development Program was prepared by a public Tunisian consulting firm; The
National Center for Agricultural Studies ("Centre National d'Etudes
Agricoles," CNEA), with important contributions by Tunisia's Forestry
Department in the Ministry of Agriculture, and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program. The Development Program is based largely on two successful pilot
projects including the Sedjenane Range Management Project and the Beja Soil
Conservation Project, which are discussed in Chapter III. In the remainder of
this report the "Project" refers to the activities included in the 5-year time
slice proposed for Bank financing. The Program refers to the full 15-year
Development Program.
Il. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CONTEXT /_
A. Place of Agriculture in the Economy
2.01     Tunisia's Economy.  Tunisia's GDP increased at 6.9% p.a. from 1976 to
1980. GDP per capita reached US$1,330 in 1980. This increase is partly due
to Government policy to stimulate production through projects and credit
directed mostly to the private sector, incentives provided to private
manufacturers, an export oriented industrial investment strategy, and
promotion of tourism. Tunisia has also benefitted from increased oil prices
for its petroleum production which has financed an increase in Government
investment. Petroleum and phosphate exports provide 32% of export earnings,
while manufacturing provides 26%. The balance of payments situation is good
with the debt service ratio (now 11.1% of exports of goods and services)
improving during the 1970's. Major economic issues include:
(a)  The projected decline in oil production will cause Tunisia to become
a net petroleum importer by 1990. This is likely to make the high
level of subsidies to the economy (16% of current budget outlays)
unsustainable in the long term. Subsidies will need to be
concentrated only on the needy rather than distributed to all income
groups;
/1 Annexes 3 through 5.



-2-
(b) The high level of un- and underemployment (20-25% of the labor force)
and hence the need to promote labor-intensive investments (mainly in
agriculture, small and medium enterprises);
(c) The need to use interest rate and fiscal policies more effectively to
restrain final consumption and to stimulate savings as petroleum
production declines;
(d)  The need to maintain wage policies which keep labor cost increases in
line with productivity increases in order to maintain competitiveness
in international markets for manufactured goods;
(e) The need to alleviate poverty in certain poverty pockets such as the
Northwest. About 17% of Tunisia's population lives at or below the
absolute poverty level of US$200 per capita.
2.02     The place of agriculture can be represented by the following data:
(a) Agriculture's share in GDP is declining (24% in 1972 to 15% in 1980),
due to a more rapid expansion of mining, petroleum, and industrial
production.
(b) Agriculture's share in total investment (private and public) has
remained constant at about 14% during the 1970's. Agriculture's
share in Government's total expenditures has been 9 to 10% during the
1970's.
(c) 3.1 million of Tunisia's 6.6 million people live in rural areas;
(d) About 45% of that part of the population living at or below the
absolute poverty level are found in rural areas;
(e) Agriculture now provides 35% of total employment, down from 50% in
1972. About 30% of available agricultural labor time is unemployed.
B. Agricultural Performance
2.03     Natural Resources.  Tunisia can be divided into three main ecological
zones. The Northern-most zone is separated from the Central zone by a branch
of the Southern Atlas Mountains called the Tunisia dorsal.  The Northern zone
covers 25% of Tunisia's land area, and is characterized by high rainfall
(400-1,000 mm), the most fertile land in the country, and produces milk,
vegetables, grapes, citrus, meat, and cereals. The Northwest corner of this
zone contains productive natural pastures and forests, and is the area in
which the Northwest Rural Development Program is to be located. The Central
zone (15% of Tunisia) runs between the Tunisian dorsal and a series of large
salt lakes (chotts). Central Tunisia receives between 200 and 400 mm of
rainfall and is used agriculturally 9rimarily for cereals, olive trees, and as
pasture-land for grazing. The region is dominated by alfa grass, esparto
grass and large shrubs. The Southern region of Tunisia covers 60% of the
country's total land area. It is a pre-desert zone receiving less than 200 mm
of rainfall each year. Vegetation is sparse consisting primarily of low
growing shrubs. There is some extensive grazing, and some irrigated
agriculture based on the use of ground-water obtained from wells.



- 3 -
2.04     Land Use.  Of a total land area in Tunisia of 16.4 million hectares,
land suitable for agriculture and grazing totals 8.6 million ha. Of this, the
cultivable area covers 5.2 million ha. Forests and esparto grass cover
1.2 million ha, and 2.2 million ha are used for grazing. About 150,000 ha are
irrigated. In 1]978/79, 34% of the cultivable area was planted in cereals,
33% under fruit trees, 6% under forage crops, 2% under pulses, 3% under
vegetables, 1% tnder industrial crops, and 21% was left fallow. Tunisia has
the potential to irrigate 250,000 ha.
2.05     Production.  A primary objective of the Fifth Plan (1977-1981) was to
achieve self-sufficiency in food (defined as a balanced commodity trade in
agricultural products) by 1981, which implied an average annual increase of
6.5% ir production at constant prices. There was increased emphasis in the
Fifth Plan on irrigation, livestock, and farm machinery. Much less emphasis
was given to forestry and soil conservation, fruit trees, fishing, research
and extension. The Fifth Plan's ambitious growth target was not achieved.
However, agricultural value added grew at 3.6% per year in real terms during
the 1970's, compared to 1% per year during the 1960's. While favorable
weather played a part, the improvement primarily was caused by (i) increased
use of modern inputs; (ii) irrigation development; (iii) development of
credit facilities serving an increasing number of farmers; (iv) increasingly
favorable agricultural prices, and (v) growth in public sector agricultural
investment by 40% in real terms during the 1970's compared to the 1960's.
Average growth figures hide considerable annual variations in production
caused largely by variations in weather conditions, and secondarily by
variations in prices.
2.06     Foreign Trade in Agriculture.  The value of agricultural exports
increased at 10.4% p.a. from 1970 to 1980 in current prices while imports grew
at 14.5% p.a. The value of agricultural exports exceeded that of agricultural
imports by an aeverage of 20% during the period 1970-1973. The value of
agricultural exports was only 75% of imports during the period 1975 to 1978.
Part of the problem is that food import prices have increased more rapidly
(12% p.a. from 1972-1978) than have the average prices of agricultural exports
(8.7% p.a.). There is considerable annual variation in most agricultural
exports, with trends difficult to identify. In general, exports of fish and
vegetables have increased. Exports of wine have declined as production has
declined. Exports of meat, dates, citrus, other fruit, and olive oil have
stagnated. For these latter products, most of the reason for stagnating
exports is the rapidly expanding domestic consumption. This is caused by
population growth coupled with a shift in consumer tastes to these higher
value commodities as per capita income grows. Imports consist largely of
cereals, sugar, dairy products, vegetable oils, and some meats; for which
growth in domestic production does not keep up with demand.
2.07     The Forthcoming Sixth Plan.  Work to prepare the Sixth Plan is
underway. The overall objective in the agricultural sector will continue to
be the achievement of self-sufficiency in major foodstuffs. Agricultural
exports are targeted to generate sufficient earnings to cover import needs.
The projected expansion of field crops will concern mainly durum wheat, pulses
and sugar beet. This would require increasing use of new agricultural
technology, principally high yielding varieties, fertilizers and chemical weed
control. Investments in irrigation infrastructure, tractors and harvesting
equipment would be prominent. The livestock sub-sector would be expanded
primarlLy by improving the genetic quaZity of cattle by the introduction of
high yielding cows from Europe. Increased animal feed and adequate price
incentives are foreseen. Tree crops would be expanded and diversified, but



- 4 -
olives would remain the most important crop. The areas planted under
vegetables would expand. Tree crop and vegetable expansion would depend
substantially on the further development of the irrigated perimeters.
Increased Government investment will also go to soil and water conservation,
agricultural research, and farm input supply facilities.
C. Sector Issues Relevant to The Northwest Rural Development Program/1
Scarcity of Land and Water
2.08     The major natural constraints facing Tunisian agriculture
are; (a) the scarcity of agricultural land relative to the rural population
(2.4 ha of cultivable- and pasture-land per person), and (b) the scarcity of
water. These constraints are the primary causes for the land tenure problems
discussed below, and the problems of erosion and desertification discussed in
Chapter III.  With a high man/land relationship, most farms are small, often
too small for viable farming under rainfed conditions. As the rural
population expands, marginal land is brought under cultivation and expanded
livestock herds increasingly overgraze pasture-land. Marginal land in sloped
areas erodes when cultivated, particularly under mechanized farming.
Overgrazing causes destruction of vegetative cover, accelerating soil erosion
and desertification. The solution to the problem of scarce land is to
increase production by an intensification of farming practices in order to
obtain increases in crop yields per ha. The solution is not to introduce
modern extensive farming techniques such as those practiced in North America,
or to open up marginal land subject to erosion. A major agricultural effort
is therefore required to introduce land enhancing technology rather than labor
substituting technology. Land enhancing technology includes irrigation,
introduction of high yielding crop varieties, introduction of new crops and
multi-crop systems to replace the cereal/fallow rotation, introduction of
intensive crop technology (fertilizer, greenhouses, diversification of
cropping patterns, integration of crop and livestock production at farm level,
and introduction of modern pest and weed control). Tunisia has begun to
introduce such technology, but there is scope for improvement.
Land Tenure
2.09     There are major land tenure issues in Tunisia including;  (a) skewed
distribution of private land; (b) extreme fragmentation of farms which
reduces the efficiency of operation on the larger ones, and contributes to the
lack of viability of the smaller; (c) lack of land titles which are required
by the National Bank of Tunisia (Banque Nationale de Tunisie) to extend
long-term credit, and which could provide security of tenure thereby
encouraging investment in the land; (d) lack of security of land tenure for
tenant farmers reducing their incentive to invest in farm assets and to
conserve the soil; (e) a high incidence of absentee land ownership and
tendency for absentee owners to under-exploit their land; and (f) the
tendency for collectively owned land to be poorly managed and over-exploited
causing and low productivity. Government has taken measures to correct these
problems in irrigated areas by imposing a maximum and minimum farm size,
undertaking land consolidation, and issuing land titles. On non-irrigated
land, Government has not seriously attacked these problems. These issues are
of major importance in the Tunisia Northwest, and would be dealt with under
/1 Sector Issues not relevant to the Development Program include primarily
those affecting the Irrigation Subsector. Annex 3 discusses these issues.



-5-
Livestock Development
2.10     Livestock accounts for 28% of agricultural GDP, 4.4% of Tunisia's
overall GDP. The size of Tunisia's livestock herd is increasing with cattle
aad poultry the most rapidly (increasing by 65% and 200% respectively between
1970 and 1979). Milk and meat yields per animal, for cattle and sheep, are
low due to (a) inadequate feed quality and quantity, (b) a frequent lack of
water, (c) local breeds of livestock which, though hardy and able to survive
under harsh conditions, are poor meat and milk producers, (d) frequent
incidence of poor livestock shelters, poor sanitary conditions, inadequate
livestock health facilities,  (e) general absence of milk marketing outlets
(outlets for meat are available; paras. 7.06 and 7.07) Government is
attacking these constraints in the irrigated areas and the most fertile
dry-farming areas. The method is (a) to increase feed availability, (b) to
finance water points (wells, reservoirs, etc.), (c) to distribute credit for
livestock shelters, (d) to provide animal health facilities, extension advice
on sanitation, (e) to establish milk collection centers, and (f) based on
the above improvements, to introduce higher yielding livestock bred from cows
imported from Europe and North America.  The Northwest Rural Development
Program would extend these actions to the Program area.
Organization of Government Agriculture Services
2.11     Agricultural services are organized at the Provincial (Governorate)
level in Agricultural Commissions ("Commissariat Régional de Développement
Agricole," CRDA). CRDA's are intended to provide agricultural extension to
farmers, undertake forest management and planting, assist the National Bank of
Tunisia ("Banque Nationale de Tunisie," BNT) ta appraise loan applications,
collect statistics, and coordinate the various public organizations and
project authorities working in agriculture at the Governorate level. In
practice CRDA's have not had a major role in coordination. CRDA's have not
been able to execute complex development projects due to their lengthy and
ctumbersome procedures for contracting and for undertaking investments. CRDA's
are prohibited from undertaking credit or commercial operations, collecting
revenues, buying and selling farm inputs, or undertaking most works on force
account. CRDA's are particularly ill-adapted to serving areas such as that to
be developed under the Northwest Development Program characterized by
mountainous terrain, a high rate of soil erosion, a poor population dependent
on small fragmented holdings, and large tracts of land more suitable for
forests and pastures than for cereal production (Chapter III). Agricultural
services have been developed to serve the richer areas of the flat plains and
irrigated perimeters. The region proposed for treatment by the Northwest
Development Program is distributed over five Governcrates, but covers only
about 20% of the area of each (maps 15395 and 15396). Because the area is of
marginal importance to each of the five CRDA's taken individually, and because
of the weakness of the CRDA's, no large-scale development actions have been
attempted.
2.12     The Government's response to these institutional constraints has been
to create Development Agencies ("Offices") and public enterprîses ("Sociétés
Nationales") responsible for (i) functions (e.g., cereal marketing, livestock
production, equipment services, input supply, etc.), (ii) irrigation projets
at the regional level, and (iii) rural development Projects such as the
Northwest Project appraised in this report and the Central Tunisia Rural
Development Project already underway. There are several advantages attached
to the "Offices". (i) they can coordinate agricultural and other services in



- 6 -
sufficiently large development areas; the boundary of their authority need not
be the small administrative boundaries of the Governorates; (ii) they have
commercial/development prerogatives, are semi-autonomous financially, and can
invest and operate like commercial enterprises; (iii) they can escape
cumbersome administrative regulations and promote action in all relevant
domains (marketing, credit, investment, letting contracts, undertaking road
works, constructing schools); (iv) they are accountable since they maintain
separate accounts, have performance targets, and are audited; and (v) they
can provÎde better incentives to staff and for this reason tend to recruit
higher quality staff. Their experience in Tunisia has been positive.
Agricultural Research
2.13     Agricultural research is undertaken by the National Agricultural
Research Institute ("Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique de
Tunisie," INRAT) under the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture. INRAT
conducts research, from 16 experimental farms, in the areas of plant breeding,
agronomy, plant pathology, irrigation, forage production and livestock
science. INRAT was successful in developing high yielding durum and
bread-wheat varieties suitable to the higher rainfall zones of Tunisia. The
major problem of agricultural research is its excessive theoretical
orientation and lack of responsiveness to current agricultural problems faced
by farmers.  It responds to bureaucratic rather than farmer requirements.
Rewards are provided to researchers who contribute to publications, rather
than for solving practical farming problems. In the 1970's, Government's
reaction to the lack of pay-off from research was to provide fewer resources
to it. Under the next Development plan, it is foreseen that Government will
put increased emphasis on research. Its budget will be increased, and five
new research stations will be created. However, a new system for specifying
research needs, insuring that appropriate research is undertaken, and
obtaining feedback from farmers is needed. More operating resources should be
allocated to research. Research is needed on rate of response of plants to
fertilizer, forage varieties and systems, pasture varieties, tillage methods,
weed control, and range management. This issue would be addressed in the area
to be developed under the Northwest Development Program (para. 4.04).
Agricultural Extension
2.14     Agricultural extension is provided primarily by three Departments in
the Ministry of Agriculture: the Department of Training, Research, and
Extension ("Direction de l'Enseignement, Recherche et Vulgarisation") which is
responsible for mass communications, the Crop Production Department
("Direction de la Production Végétale") and the Livestock Production
Department ("Direction de la Production Animale") which supervise services
contacting farmers directly. In 1979, 320 university-trained agriculturalists
and 1,200 secondary school-trained agriculturalists were involved in these
systems. At the Governorate level, extension agents are attached to the
Agricultural Commission (CRDA). The irrigation "Offices" and the cereals
"Office" also provide extension services. There were about 1 extension agent
per 12,Ç0OZ îarmers in the 1970's, compared to 1 per 200-600 farmers found in
World Bank-financed proJects elsewhere in the world.



- 7 -
2.15     Agricultural extension is inadequate because  (a) extension agents
spend only about 20 percent of their time in extension work, and the remainder
assisting farmers with credit applications, collecting statistics, and
administrative work; (b) extension agents are poorly trained in
communications and in extension methods; (c) little extension effort is
devoted to small and medium farmers; (d) the work of extension agents has not
been systematic; (e) there is little connection between technical advice with
respect to use of modern inputs, and the availability of credit to finance
inputs.
2.16     In response to these problems which are recognized by Government, the
Fifth Development plan proposed 150 extension centers at the CRDA level which
would concentrate more on small and medium farmers, introduce high yielding
varieties, introduce pulses and forage into the cropping pattern where
appropriate, encourage chemical weeding, encourage conversion of old and
unproductive orchards to higher value fruit, and introduce better management
practices for crops and livestock. Despite the existence of agricultural
technologies which have been proven and could be extended, few of the planned
extension centers have been created. Extension activities continue to be
provided on an ad hoc basis except for those provided in irrigated areas by
the Irrigation Project Authorities ("Offices"). The area targeted by the
Northwest Development Program has received virtually no extension effort.
Agricultural Credit (Annex 14)
2.17     Agricultural credit is provided primarily (80%) by the
Government-owned National Bank of Tunisia, ("Banque Nationale de Tunisie,"
BNT). BNT also provides loans to other sectors. Financing for agricultural
credit is provided from BNT's own resources, rediscount facilities of the
central Bank, World Bank loans, Government grants, and bilateral sources.
Each source of funds is managed separately by BNT. However, lending terms are
identical for all BNT lending regardless of the financing source.
2.18     Major credit issues include  (a) low loan recovery;  (b) lack of
agricultural staff at BNT contributing to the lack of contact between BNT
staff and farmers; (c) lack of land titles for most farms, preventing them
from obtaining long-term credit since BNT requires a land mortgage as
guarantee; (d) centralization of loan decisions at the head office in Tunis
resulting in an excessively long approval process; (e) lending norms
determining BNT loan amounts which in many cases do not adequately reflect
either the costs of investments and inputs or the ability ot farmers to
contribute equity; (f) the small number of farmers who receive credit (10% of
farms), of which most are large farmers; (g) interest rates lower than
inflation, requiring BNT to ration credit; and (h) the lack by BNT of
adequate monitoring evaluation and cost accounting systems. BNT provides
credit only to farms above a minimum size, which excludes the majority of
farms. However, BNT provides short-term credit ta farms smaller than the
minimum if the owners are members of a Mutual Guarantee Society ("Société de
Caution Mutuelle"). Members of such societies are collectively responsible
for credit repayment.
2.19     The Bank-financed Third Agricultural Credit Project selected only
priority problems to be addressed during Project implementation.  The Project
requires BNT to increase agricultural staff, to establish a staff training
program, and to decentralize some subloan appraisal and approvals to branch
offices. The Project also requires that interest rates be positive compared



- 8 -
to price inflation, and introduces monitoring, evaluation, and cost accounting
systems in BNT. Increased agricultural staff; better appraisal, monitoring,
and evaluation procedures; and better staff training, should improve recovery
performance.
Agricultural Training
2.20     Skilled administrative and technical manpower with agricultural
training is abundant in Tunisia. There is a growing surplus of agricultural
manpower trained to the secondary school level and above. There are 4,190
staff working in the Ministry of Agriculture and CRDA's, of which 789 are
university graduates, 830 have two years university equivalent, 1,259 are
technical agricultural staff trained at the secondary school level, and 1,312
are technical agricultural staff trained at the pre-secondary level. In 1979,
about 45 percent of the 1977-79 graduates of agricultural secondary schools
were unemployed. There is also unemployment of the university-trained
agriculturalists (about 25 percent unemployment expected in 1980-81 for those
with two years unÏversity, 10 percent for those who have a university
degree). The staffing of agricultural services will not be a constraint.
2.21     The curricula of most of the agricultural schools are not related to
the circumstances of Tunisian agriculture. Texts used have been developed in
Europe for European agriculture. There is also no specialized training for
extension agents. There are exceptions where innovative training programs
have been developed as part of individual projects, but these have not yet had
an impact on the national system.
Input and Equipment Supply
2.22     Problems which need to be addressed for the less accessible
agricultural regions of Tunisia such as the Northwest include the following:
(a)  Farm demand for equipment exceeds availability.  Execution of farm
machinery work and machinery repair by SONAM (a public enterprise
providing farm machinery services) is often of poor quality and
delayed. Mechanics are in short supply. All of these factors
contribute to poor soil preparation.
(b)  High yielding varieties of wheat seeds are generally available.
However, there are no high yielding varieties of barley, oats, most
pulses, and forage. Vegetable seed is often in short supply. Other
than for wheat, little applied research on high yielding varieties
has been undertaken in Tunisia.
(c)  For all farm inputs, poor road access and inadequate storage
facilities hinder supply to certain areas. Distribution points for
farm inputs are not sufficiently numerous. Some studies suggest that
about 10 times the present 270 input supply outlets will be required.
(d) Public input supply enterprises are not well organized in backward
regions.
The Ministry of Agriculture proposes attacking these problems by (a) an
investment program in storage, transport facilities, and roads,
(b) encouraging private enterprises to compete with public suppliers of farm
inputs, (c) encouraging public enterprises which supply farm inputs to



compete with one another, (d) with respect to the supply of equipment
services: training mechanics, standardizing equipment, re-organizing SONAM,
and encouraging the creation of service cooperatives which would provide farm
machinery services to members. The Project would implement some of these
measures (para. 4.05).
Marketing and Prices (Annex 20)
2.23     The prices of wheat, olive oil, wine, beef and milk are fixed by
Government at the point of purchase by public processing and wholesale
enterprises. There is also a private market for these commodities where the
price is free, although strongly influenced by both the official price and
Government imports. Consumer prices of some basic commodities (bread,
vegetable oils, sugar, milk and beef) are fixed at relatively low levels.
Processing and wholesale enterprises receive Government subsidies from the
Tunisian Compensatory Finance Fund ("Caisse Générale de Compensation") to
finance their operating deficits caused in part by these low resale prices.
2.24     A summary of Bank studies comparing domestic farmgate and world
prices for agricultural commodities and farm inputs is as follows;
(a)  Official prices of cereals paid to producers have increased at a more
rapid rate than the world prices of cereals so that at present they
are comparable;
(b)  for pu:Lses and industrial crops there is approximate parity between
domestic producer prices and world prices;
(c)  domestic lamb and milk prices paid to producers exceed world prices,
while official beef prices are lower than world prices;
(d)  the domestic producer prices of most export commodities are lower
than world prices due to export taxes and price controls;
(e)  modern chemical inputs (fertilizer, plant protection), packaging
materials, animal feed, animal health services, and irrigation water
are heavily subsidized;
(f)  machinery services, marketing services and hired labor are expensive
relative to their costs to the economy (opportunity costs);
(g)  agricultural credit is subsidized through interest rates which are
lower than the rate of price inflation, and by direct subsidies of
farmers' equity investments.
Subsidies at the producer, processor, and retail levels for cereals and
livestock products amount to about 6-7% of Government's current expenditure,
and growing (at 25% p.a. from 1976 to 1980). With the likely decline in
Tunisia's petroleum production such subsidies are not tenable in the medium
term.
2.25     The net result of these effective taxes and subsidies on inputs and
outputs operating largely through price policy is an income reduction for
producers af most export crops; parity for cereal and pulse production; and
subsidy of industrial crops, milk and meat production. This provides an
incentive for production to shift toward the subsidized commodities, and away



- 10 -
from the taxed commodities.  No economic justification for this shift is
apparent except for milk whose world price is artificially low due to
subsidies paid to milk producers in Western Europe.
2.26     Subsidy of fertilizer, other agricultural chemicals, animal feed,
credit, and irrigation water encourages excessive demand by farmers able to
obtain subsidies, compared to the economic optimum. This demand is not fully
satisfied in Tunisia, and informal input rationing results. The low price of
animal feed concentrates is particularly significant to the Northwest Project
since it tends to encourage animal fattening operations based on imported
feed, at the expense of livestock development based on pasture improvement,
which is a lower cost operation economically. Large farmers benefit most from
subsidies since they use considerably more of the subsidized inputs than do
medium and small farmers. Subsistence farmers probably do not benefit at all
from such subsidies. It is the smaller farmers who need to be induced to use
modern inputs, whereas the larger farmers are likely to use them without the
incentive of subsidies. When subsidies are provided, small farmers should be
targeted. The Bank is presently involved in discussions with Government on
price and subsidy policy. The Bank's extensive studies on the subject, from
which the above summary was drawn, have led to the recommendation that input
subsidies be progressively removed, with removal compensated for by the
removal of export taxes and the increase of agricultural prices to at least
world levels, and higher than world levels where justified (such as for
milk). These consultations with Government will continue to be pursued
through a forthcoming country economic memorandum and an agricultural sector
memorandum.
D. Bank Involvement in Agriculture, and OED Comments on Previous Projects
2.27     The Bank has supported and is continuing to support Tunisia's
agricultural sector through agricultural credit, rural development,
irrigation, and fisheries projects. Bank group lending for agriculture in
Tunisia began in 1967, and to date, nine Projects have been financed or
approved totalling US$168.9 million of Bank/IDA funds. The nine Projects
include three irrigation projects (FY75, FY79, and FY80), two Fisheries
Projects (FY72 and FY79), a Cooperative Farm Project (FY68), and three
Agricultural Credit Projects (FY71, FY77, and FY80). In addition, the
objective of the Rural Roads Project (FY78) is to improve agriculture within
the zones of influence of the roads to be constructed by the Project (about
1,000 km).
2.28     Performance of Bank-financed projects in the sector has been mixed
reflecting the institutional constraints in the sector. The First Irrigation
Project included two components of which the more important is located in the
Lower Medjerda Valley, intended to rehabilitate a 20,000 ha irrigation
system. About 80% of this area has now been equipped with irrigation and
drainage facilities; the remainder lacks secondary and tertiary distribution
networks. The second component (Nebhana) includes the rehabilitation of
existing irrigation, drainage, and road networks over about 5,000 ha.
Physical implementation is satisiactory. The Second Irrigation Project (Sidi
Salem Multipurpose Project) includes the irrigation of 10,600 ha in the
Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon areas, and aims at preventing the decline of
6,000 ha of citrus in Cap Bon, improving agricultural production on 32,800 ha
in the Lower Medjerda Valley, reducing periodic flood damage, generating
electricity and supplying about 100 million m3/year of potable and industrial



- il -
water to the Tunis area. Implementation is satisfactory. The loan for the
Third Irrigation Project (Southern Irrigation) was declared effective in
September 1980, and has started up satisfactorily. The First Fisheries
Project was completed at the end of 1979 with considerable delay. The local
institution lending for boats (the National Bank of Tunisia, BNT) experienced
low loan recoveries. These problems are being addressed under the Second
Fisheries Project which became effective in May 14, 1980, under which
agreement was reached on a strategy for improving recoveries. The Rural Roads
Project's investment in roads and agricultural infrastructure is progressing
on schedule. Agricultural services are to be provided beginning this year
(1981) in the zones of influence of the roads. Particular attent;.on w.7ill be
given to the impact of the extension messages and the effectiveness of the
agricultural credit system established for the Project since these are its
most difficult aspects.
2.29     Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR's) have been issued for the
First Agricultural Credit Project and the Cooperative Farm Project. The
Tunisia Cooperative Farms Project, signed in February 1967, provided US$18
million for the development of agricultural production cooperatives. The
Project was part of a 10-year national program to implement agrarian reform
and to consolidate cooperative farming. Project implementation was slow due
to technical, managerial, and financial problems. A major change in Tunisia's
land reform policy occurred in 1969, when the attempt to convert agricultural
land to production cooperatives was abandoned. The Project was substantially
revised in 1970, and an amount of US$8.8 million was cancelled. The Project
was completed by the end of 1973. The Bank's PPAR No. 968 of January 1976
confirms that many of the Project objectives, namely productivity, production,
worker incomes, and institutional viability, were attained. Two other
objectives, namely elimination of subsistence farming and incorporation of
private land-owners into production cooperatives, had to be abandoned. The
First Agricultural Credit Project (1971) provided US$8 million to finance
lending by the National Bank of Tunisia ("Banque Nationale de Tunisie," BNT)
for farm investments in machinery, dairy development, date palm plantations,
and an agro-industrial component for dairy products. The loan/credit was
fully disbursed by July 1978, 34 months after the original closing date. The
major issue was that Bank group funds lent by BNT had a higher interest rate
than did Government funds also lent by BNT. This caused farmers to prefer
Government funds, reduced the demand for loans financed from Bank funds, and
caused disbursements of the Bank loan to be slower than expected. Under the
Second Agricultural Credit Project uniformity of lending terms regardless of
the financing source was achieved. The PPAR for the first Project also
indicated that mechanization had not yielded the benefits expected, and that
more attention should have been devoted to the agro-industrial component which
suffered major cost overruns. The Second Agricultural Credit Project is
nearly fully disbursed. The loan for the Third Agricultural Credit Project is
expected to become effective in April 30, 1981.
2.30     Lessons from the above projects have been considered in the design of
subsequent projects. In particular, the Second and Third Agricultural Credit
Projects and the Northwest Rural Development Project institute a uniformity of
lending terms for credit regardless of the financing source. The creation of
cooperatives has not been pushed due to the poor experience under the
Cooperative Farm Project. In the Northwest Development Program, farm
mechanization has been minimized, with emphasis placed on equipment used with
draft animals.  OnZy a smail agro-industrial component has been included in
the Program (milk collection centers) based on careful cost evaluation. More
emphasis would be given to farmer participation in Program execution. The



- 12 
successful institutional arrangements made for the irrigation projects,
involving the creation of "Offices," have been replicated for the Northwest
Development Program.
III.  THE AREA TO BE DEVELOPED UNDER THE PROGRAM
A. Location, Climate, and-Land Resources
3.01     Development Program actions would be undertaken within an area
covering 311,000 ha of the Northwest Region of Tunisia. It represents about
2% of the country's land surface. The area to be developed is divided into
three distinct sub-zones (map 15395) named Kroumirie-Mogods, Oued Zarga/Oued
Khil and Oued Tessa. The sub-zone names are given in the case of
Kroumirie-Mogods because the major geographical feature is the mountain range
of the same name. Similarly, Oued Zarga/Oued Khil and Oued Tessa are rivers
which are the major geographical feature of these sub-zones. The
Kroumirie-Mogods sub-zone is the northern-most, and covers 154,000 ha of
mountainous terrain. It has extensive forest, high rainfall (annual averages
range from 600-1,500 mm), limited cropped area (40%), and a population of
100,000 mostly subsisting on agriculture. The Oued Zarga/Oued Khil sub-zone
is to the Southeast of Kroumirie-Mogods and surrounds the city of Beja. It
covers 65,000 ha, mostly mountainous, annual average rainfall varies from
500-800 mm, a large area is cultivated (80%), there is a serious erosion
problem, and the population of 30,000 depends an agriculture. The Oued Tessa
sub-zone is the Southern-most and lies to the east of the city of Le Kef. It
covers 91,500 ha of hilly country, annual average rainfall varies from 400-800
mm, it is extensively cultivated (63%) and has a population of 32,000. The
Oued Zarga/Oued Khil, and Oued Tessa sub-zones are important watersheds. In
moving from the first to the third sub-zone, the extent of the mountains, the
natural forest and the average annual rainfall decreases. Rainfall is shown
in map 15396.
B. Population, Revenue, Employment
3.02     Population density varies from 32 people per km2 in Oued Tessa, 45
people per km2 in Oued Zarga/Oued Khil to about 70 in Kroumirie-Mogods. Of
the 162,000 people in the Program area, about 140,000 are supported by
agriculture.  There are 14,600 farms and 20,420 farm families including the
landless. There is a significant migration from the Northwest to urban areas
and abroad. About 15-20% of the male population leaves the region at least
once per year looking for temporary work. The population of the region is
growing at about 1.5% p.a. compared to 2.5% p.a. for Tunisia as a whole. The
reason is poverty, with 40% of the area's rural families having incomes at or
below the absolute poverty level compared to 20% for Tunisia as a whole. The
average expenditure per person in the Northwest (based on the 1975 census) is
60% of the national average. Agricultural work occupies only 60% of the
available work time of the area's agricultural labor, suggesting considerable
underemployment.  This underemployment is particularly pronounced in
KITtoirre-togoms '1ete it is estiumateX at 5.l ol available liabor titme.



- 13 -
C. Land Use and Ownership
3.03     Land Use.  Land use is as follows in the area to be developed:
Percent of Land Area
Kroumirie-Mogods    Oued Zarga/  Oued Tessa
Oued Khil
Cereals and pulses                              24               48             38
Vegetables, forage, industrial crops             6                21             5
Fallow                                           7                 8            16
Fruit trees                                      4                 4             4
Forest and Pasture                              51                 8            34
Non-agriculture                                  8                il             3
TOTAL                                          100              100            100
3.04    Land Ownership.  Land under crops, pasture or fruit trees belonging to
individuals, cooperative or state farms is distributed as follows;
Farm size         Kroumirie-Mogods       Oued Zarga/Oued Khil           Oued Tessa
(ha)        % of farms  % of area   % of farms  % of area  7. of farms  % of area
less than 10        83         24            65           12            63          15
11-20             10         18            18           il            20          17
21-50              5         22            il           17             9          17
51-100             1          8             5           40             6          26
greater than
Ž100                1        28              1           20             2         25
TOTAL              100        100           100          100           100         T7É
Forestry land is owned by the State. Non-agricultural land is owned both by
the State and by private individuals. As discussed in para. 2.09, land
distribution is skewed in the area, with the smallest farms often non-viable.
3.05    Erosion, Soil Degradation and Deforestation.  The most fundamental
constraint to improved well-being of the population in the area, to which the
Northwest Development Program is largely addressed, is soil erosion and
deforestation. The Program area was selected on the basis of the criteria of
severest soil erosion and deforestation. Of its 311,000 ha, 162,000 ha are
seriously threatened. The remainder is (a) already under forests and
pastures (29%), (b) used for non-agricultural purposes (7.6%),
(c) cultivated in the plain and not subject to erosion (8.5%), or (d) to be
submerged behind a dam (2.2%). Program soil conservation and agricultural
intensification are to be undertaken only on the 162,000 ha which are
threatened, or which can be improved with the Program's technical agricultural
packages.



- 14 -
3.06    The causes for erosion and deforestation include the following;
(a)  A larger number of livestock exist than can be supported by feed
production from natural pastures and from annual crop residues.
Natural pastures and forest areas are overgrazed as a resuit, causing
destruction of the natural vegetative cover and preventing the natural
regeneration of forests. As the natural vegetative cover is lost,
water run-off erodes the soil. Soil is carried by water into the
river systems. In the Project area, the Sidi Salem dam now under
construction with Bank assistance will store about 500 million m3 of
water from the Medjerda River. It is estimated that 2.3 million m3 of
sediment is transported each year from the Program area into the
Medjerda, and the situation will deteriorate unless action is taken.
The sediment from the Program area alone will therefore fill up the
Sidi Salem reservoir at a rate of .5% p.a., increasing in the future.
(b)  Soil erosion also results from abusive cultivation practices including
the ploughing of hillsides from top to bottom rather than in contours,
thereby accelerating the transport of soil by water down the
hillside; the cultivation of steep slopes where even contour farming
will not prevent water run-off from carrying away soils; the
predominance of a cereal/fallow rotation which leaves soil bare and
susceptible to erosion; and overutilization of the forest by the local
population for firewood and charcoal. Destruction of forests has been
so rapid that in some areas dried animal manure is substituted for
fuelwood. Since manure is the major source of fertilizer for village
vegetable gardening, vegetable yields are declining.
D. Production
3.07    Agricultural yields in the Program area are also low (para. 7.03) as
the result of the cultivation of crops in unsuitable conditions (highly
sloped, poor soil), and limited use of appropriate seed varieties, fertilizer,
plant protection, and farm implements. Livestock are fed from natural
vegetation in pastures, forests, and fallow land, combined with limited
cultivated forage. Livestock development is constrained by the factors
discussed in para. 2.10. Without outside intervention crop and livestock
yields will fall further because continued erosion will reduce the chemical
and physical fertility of the soils.
E. Government Services and Infrastructure
3.08    Lack of Government Services.  Inadequate Government services has
combined with the natural constraints of the Program area to cause
agricultural stagnation. Major problems include those discussed in Chapter
II, particularly the poor organization of agricultural services, the land
tenure constraints, inadequate extension and research, a credit system whiceh
does not serve the area, input supply problems, and Government milk price
policy (para. 7.06).



- 15 -
3.09    Roads.  The principal road system connecting towns in the large
valleys and plains is good. The road network in the upland and mountain areas
of the Northwest, where activities of the Northwest Development Program are to
be concentrated, is limited to a rudimentary system of unimproved earth roads,
many of which provide only limited access even in the dry season. There are
about 800 km of roads in the Program area of 3,110 km2 (0.39km/km2) of which
300 km are paved. About 400 km are unclassified roads, mainly unimproved
earth tracks which are outside the responsibility of Tunisia's highway
department ("Direction des Ponts et Chaussées," DPC) of the Ministry of Public
Works.  Limited access within the Program area prevents efficient execution of
extension and marketing activities, and hinders delivery of inputs to
farmers. Social welfare is affected by inadequate access to schools, health,
and administrative facilities.
3.10    Water Supply. Water supply is inadequate in both quantity and quality
for the healthy maintenance of the population and for the development of
livestock. Scarce water presently available is provided from traditionally
constructed and usually unsanitary wells and reservoirs.
3.11    Education Facilities.  Since independence, Tunisia has undertaken a
massive effort toward development of its human resources. The adult literacy
rate increased from under 15 percent at the time of independence to 55 percent
by 1980, reflecting an important investment in education. The Program area
has seen its facilities improve much more slowly. About 60% of the males and
38% of the femaleas of school age attend school compared to 83% and 77% in
Tunis respectively. Many communities in the Program area have no access to
schools. The 75 schools in the Program area now have 311 classrooms serving
more than 20,000 students, for a ratio of 65 students per classroom.
F. The Sedjenane Range Management and Beja Soil Conservation Projects
3.12    The depressed situation of Northwest Tunisia has been recognized for
some time, and in 1973 the Government requested the Bank to finance a
livestock Project in Sedjenane, which is in an area adjacent, and with
identical characteristics, to the Kroumirie-Mogods region. The Project
proposal was based primarily on stall feeding of imported high yielding breeds
of livestock. The Bank rejected the Project because of inadequate
justification. Government, with German technical assistance, then developed a
fundamentally new strategy for the Sedjenane region in a pilot project. It is
the successful experience of this subsequent pilot project, along with the
successful soil conservation and forestry works undertaken in the Beja
Project, on which the Development Program appraised in this report is based.
The Sedjenane Project
3.13    The Sedjenane Project has obtained intense farmer collaboration, and
farmers outside the Project area are pressing for its extension to their
areas.  The Sedjenane Project strategy is based on the idea that soil erosion
can only be stopped with the collaboration of the population causing the
erosion, and that this collaboration can be obtained only by assisting the
population to improve their incomes and well-being at the same time that they
combat erosion. The Project therefore enters into an informal agreement with
the population in which the Project provides services discussed below, and the



- 16 -
community is obligated to respect and maintain Project works, introduce new
farming methods designed to reduce erosion and water run-off, pay user charges
and reimburse credit. Project services include the following:
(a) Development of livestock based on (i) installation and maintenance of
permanent pastures on relatively unproductive land subject to erosion
in order to increase feed available for livestock while conserving the
soil (pastures are an efficient soil conservation technique and permit
increased milk and meat production); (ii) introduction by the
Project's extension service of forage crops to supplement pasture as
an animal feed and to increase vegetative cover of soils as a soil
conservation technique; (iii) introduction of an animal health
program, improved livestock shelters, genetically superior livestock,
increased water supply from wells, and organized milk collection.
(b) The Project established its own extension/research system which
studied and introduced new crops for the area (forage crops, sugar-
beet, tobacco, vegetables), more intensive agricultural techniques and
modern farm inputs in order to increase crop yields. Extension is
provided out of intervention centers which also supply farm inputs,
have milk collection facilities, and provide livestock reproduction
services.
(c) The Project authority (under the direction of the National Office for
Livestock Development) has provided agricultural credit in-kind from
its own resources, in conjunction with extension advice. Inputs and
investments as defined in the various extension packages are
distributed in this way. Credit recovery rates have exceeded 90%.
(d) The Project has assisted farmers to undertake land consolidation where
necessary to attack the problems of land fragmentation. This has been
done by proposing a land consolidation plan, obtaining farmers
agreement, and after appropriate modification of the plan based on
farmer reactions, the issuing of certificates of land possession to
farmers legalizing new ownership.
(e)  The Project has installed farm access roads and domestic water supply.
(f) Communities have been organized into "management committees" to permit
them to negotiate with the Project, and to eventually take over
pasture management, crop and milk marketing, and maintenance of other
Project works. Project operation and maintenance costs are partly
recovered through user charges for permanent pastures, and through
price margins on milk bought and sold by the Project.
3.14    The area to be developed by the Sedjenane Project covers about 16,000
ha. The net value of incremental milk, meat and crop production on areas
developed so far reached $6 million in 1980, compared to investment, operation
and maintenance costs currently reaching $2.5 million. An estimate of the
economic rate of return to the Sedjenane Project is 10%. About 31,000 people
have benefitted directly or indirectly trom the Project.



- 17 -
The Beja Soil Conservation Project
3.15    The Beja Soil Conservation Project, managed by the Forestry service,
is located in the Oued Zarga/Oued Khil region. Its strategy is directed to
the perceived need by the population to cultivate land subject to erosion in
order to assure subsistence. The land-use table in para. 3.03 shows that a
significantly greater percentage of land in the Oued Zarga/Oued Khil and Oued
Tessa areas is c:ultivated (about 70% on average) than in the Kroumirie-Mogods
area where Sedjenane is located (40% cultivated). The problems of soil
erosion are much more acute in the Oued Zarga/Oued Khil and Oued Tessa areas,
aggravated by the cultivation of more marginal land than in Sedjenane. The
introduction of permanent pasture in place of cultivation was not attempted as
it was in Sedjenane where the land constraint is less pressing. The Beja
strategy is to (a) introduce soil conservation works on cultivated land
subject to erosion (including contour banks, gully control works,
reforestation), and (b) introduce cultivation techniques such as contour
farming consistent with soil conservation. The Project has reforested 1,600
ha of land during 1977 to 1979, and has maintained 9,100 ha of forest. About
35 km of forest roads have been opened and 334 km maintained. Contour banks
have been installed on 2,500 ha of cultivated land, while 2,230 ha have had
grass markers installed to indicate the contour facilitating contour farming.
This has been done on a budget of D 590,000 (US$1.5 million) p.a. (in 1979
prices). This strategy has been successful in reducing erosion in the areas
treated and in expanding production of forestry products.
3.16    The Northwest Rural Development Program replicates the Sedjenane
Project on a larger scale in the Kroumirie-Mogods area; and combines the
strategy of the Sedjenane Project with the soil conservation and forestry
works of the Beja Project in the Oued Zarga/Oued Khil and Oued Tessa areas
(see map 15395).
IV.  THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Introduction
4.01    The Project recommended for financing is a 5-year time slice of a
15-year Development Program for 311,000 ha of Tunisia's Northwest region.
As indicated in para. 3.05, actual Program actions will be undertaken on the
162,000 ha within this area subject to soil erosion or susceptible to crop
production increase with the remainder being either non-agricultural land or
already under forest. The objectives of the Development Program are to
(a) increase the income and improve the nutrition, health, and education of
the region's population, (b) reduce soil erosion, arrest the decline in
agricultural productivity, and reduce the rate of sedimentation of the Sidi
Salem reservoir (para. 3.06), (c) create employment possibilities, and
(d) develop local energy resources through production of fuelwood. The 5-year
time slice Project is described in Chapter V. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would implement the Program in line with the
objectives and investments begun under the Project.



- 18 -
B. Program Strategy
4.02    The strategy is to divide the 162,000 ha to be treated by the Program
into homogeneous micro-zones, each with an average area of 2,000 ha. Each
micro-zone would be provided with a detailed development plan linked to the
development strategy for the Program. The criteria for delineation of a
micro-zone include (a) land owned or used by a community which can be
organized into one or more cohesive groupings (para. 6.11), and
(b) topographical and agricultural characteristics permitting micro-zone
boundaries to be established. The development plan for a micro-zone would be
established with the participation of the community's organization (such as
the management committees organized at Sedjenane). Micro-zone plans would
contain actions and investments similar to those undertaken in the Sedjenane
and Beja Projects. In addition to the micro-zone plans, the Program would
undertake actions serving several micro-zones including road improvement,
agricultural research, and other agricultural support services (section C
below). A Development Authority ("Office") located in the city of Beja was
established in March 1981 to implement the Program (para. 6.01). Each
sub-zone has its own headquarters (at Sedjenane for the Kroumirie-Mogods
sub-zone, Beja for the Oued Zarga/Oued Khil sub-zone, Le Kef for the Oued
Tessa sub-zone; see map 15395). Table 1, page 24 shows the build-up of staff
needs over time. It also shows the build-up of area treated and farms
assisted by the Development Program.
C. Description of Program Components
Measures to Decrease Soil Erosion (Annexes 6, 7, and 11)
4.03    This component is designed to address the problem discussed in para.
3.06, and includes the following actions;
(a) On about 38,200 ha of land where changes in cultivation practices
alone can reduce soil erosion while increasing production, such
changes would be introduced (contour farming, maintenance of
vegetative cover for as much of the year as possible, introduction of
different crops on alternate parcels down hillsides to reduce water
run-off). On about 21,600 ha of this land, grass markers following
the contour will be planted to facilitate contour farming.
(b)  On land where changes in agricultural practices alone will not
satisfactorily arrest erosion, more expensive operations will be
undertaken including contour bank systems on 3,300 ha (which trap soil
carried by rain-water run-off), and the planting or maintenance of
permanent pastures (about 72,700 ha). Land preparation in contour
banked areas and grazing on permanent pastures would be supervised by
the Development Authority.
(c)  In an area of about 22,100 ha where cultivation must be stopped in
order to prevent erosion, but where soil conditions do not permit
introduction of permanent pastures, planting of forests would be
undertaken.
(d) On about 1,700 ha of land surrounding gullies and river beds, where
overgrazing and water run-off are causing erosion, actions would
include fencing off and supervised grazing, water control works, and
afforestation (for fuelwood and forage).



- 19 -
Specific works would be determined for each area in its detailed micro-zone
plan. Benefits would include increased agricultural production due to a more
intensified system of crop and livestock production, increased output of
fuelwood, and reduced soil erosion (Chapter VII). Compensation would be paid
by the "Office" to those farmers suffering a decline (short-term) in food
production or income, as a result of these works (para. 4.14). Physical
implementation is shown in table 1, page 24.
Agricultural Development
4.04    Extension Service and Research Component (Annex 9).  Agricultural
development would be based on the soil conservation measures discussed above
combined with extension, research, credit, input supply, and correction of
certain land tenure problems.  The extension component would include the
following;
(a)  Intervention centers would be created for each 4,000 ha
(approximately).  A center would contain 2 to 3 extension agents to
provide about 1 agent per 200 farms.
(b) A systematic extension system based in part on the training and visit
system would be created. It would introduce the new farming
practices, crops, inputs, and equipment foreseen in the Program's
technical packages, and modified in the future by the Program's
research component. The system would be a model for Tunisia's
extension system since it recognizes the extension problem as not one
of a lack of extension messages and better agricultural technology to
extend, but rather one of a presently inadequate system for
communicating these messages, except at Sedjenane and in irrigated
areas.
(c) Agents would spend most (75 percent) of their time in extending
farming techniques, described and periodically updated by subject
matter extension specialists. The subject matter specialists, located
at sub--zone headquarters (at Sedjenane, Beja, and Le Kef), would
prepare the extension messages and supervise extension staff. They
would be assisted initially by foreign technical assistants
(para. 4.12).
(d)  Extension agents would also provide advice to farmers on land
exchanges, based on the proposals made in the micro-zone plans
(para. 6.08).
(e)  Applied research would be undertaken in the area to be developed under
the Program by the National Agricultural Research Institute (INRAT)
based on an agreement ("convention") with the "Office" and following
terms of reference provided by the "Office." INRAT would use its own
staff and facilities. The "Office" would pay operating costs incurred
by INRAT in carrying out the research. Research themes would include
a comparative study of different soil conservation measures as a
function of technical and economic criteria, analysis of new forage
crops tbo introduce, management of livestock in a semi-intensive
system, and such research as necessary to resolve practical farming
problZems as they appear <para. 6.17).



- 20 -
(f)  Appropriate research results would be incorporated into recommenda-
tions by the subject matter specialists and communicated to extension
staff.
4.05    Farm Input and Equipment Supply (Annexes 8 and 20).  To resolve the
problem of inadequate farm input and equipment supply to the area,
characterized by the absence of input supply outlets and virtual absence of
SONAM equipment services, the Development Authority ("Office") would determine
demand for farm inputs and equipment, procure and distribute them. Credit
would be provided to farmers to finance purchases from the "Office"
(paras. 4.06 and 6.12). Of particular importance is the procurement and
distribution of equipment adapted to hillside and mountain farming, and to
soil conservation requirements. The "Office" would also purchase equipment to
undertake soil preparation for small farmers for a fee. In addition, the
"Office" would lease equipment to private entrepreneurs willing and able to
undertake such work for farmers on a custom basis. The medium-term objective
is to turn over all such operations to the private sector. Inputs and
equipment would be provided by the "Office" only during the development period
for each micro-zone. Normal distribution channels would be encouraged and
would take over these functions subsequent to this establishment period.
4.06    Agricultural Credit (Annex 14).  Both the "Office" and BNT would
manage the Development Program's agricultural credit component. Credit would
be provided in conjunction with extension packages, the supply of inputs,
livestock, and equipment. The "Office" would procure inputs and equipment
according to farmers declarations of demand made at the intervention centers.
The "Office" would supply these items to farmers on credit. The way in which
the system would function, its terms and conditions, are described in
paras. 6.12 and 6.13. Medium- and long-term credit finance about 65% of
investments, subsidies finance 15%, and farmer equity 20%. Credit would
finance (a) incremental short-term credit for farm inputs, (b) medium-term
credit for farm machinery, livestock, draft animals, equipment for enterprises
undertaking construction and machinery services on contract with the Project,
and (c) long-term credit for stables and fruit trees. Under the Northwest
Development Program agricultural credit would be provided by the "Office" in a
micro-zone until farmers establish the creditworthiness required to borrow and
procure through normal banking and commercial outlets. The Development
Program would facilitate the transition of farmers to BNT credit, would permit
better loan recovery than BNT is able to obtain acting alone, would permit a
faster and more efficient appraisal process than BNT is able to assure acting
alone, and would facilitate the use of lending norms for short-term credit
which are better adopted to the area than those of BNT (para. 6.12).
Forestry Production (Annex 7)
4.07    The Program includes planting and maintenance of about 22,100 ha of
trees (mostly pine, eucalypts and acacia) on State and on collective land.
The average yield of wood is expected to be 2.9 m3/ha p.a. This planting will
permit an increase in off-take of wood from existing forests equal to this
annual average yield. About 25% of production is expected to be taken by the
area population as fuelwood to satisfy its needs. The remainder would be sold
by Government to cover costs of planting and maintenance (para. 4.17).



- 21 -
Livestock Development (Annex 12)
4.08    The Program would finance credit for livestock investments by farmers,
including cross-bred cows, sheep, and stables. Superior breeds of bulls and
rams would be purchased by the "Office" for the purpose of undertaking a
natural breeding program in order to further improve the genetic potential of
the livestock population. The result would be to increase meat and milk
yields per animal. Expanded forage production-from permanent pastures
installed and managed by the "Office," and from forage crops introduced into
cropping systems by the extension service, would permit expanded herd size,
and hence the increased meat and milk production. The constraints on
livestock development imposed by lack of sanitary, water supply and marketing
facilities would be addressed by improvements in animal sanitation introduced
by the extension service, animal health facilities established in intervention
centers, investments in water supply (para. 4.10), and installation of milk
collection centers and bulk milk transport vehicles.
Productive Infrastructure
4.09    Roads (Annex 10).  In response to the problems discussed in para. 3.09
the Development Program includes improvements to those inter-village roads
(tertiary roads), in the area which are severely deteriorated, and which are
necessary for the area's economic and social development (about 320 km for the
entire Program, all to be completed during the first five years). In
addition, 1,600 km of farm and forestry roads would be improved, providing
local access within specific micro-zones selected for development (20 km per
micro-zone). The Program's road component would complement the nationwide
road improvemenl- program, assisted by the Bank-financed Rural Roads Project.
The Rural Roads Project finances secondary roads in rural areas, under the
authority of the highway department of the Ministry of Public Works. The
roads to be improved under the Northwest Development Program are not included
in the nationwide road improvement program managed by the Highway Department.
Inclusion of these roads in the Northwest Program is necessary to permit
execution of exitension, marketing, input supply activities, and to permit
increased access by the population to schools, health and administration
facilities. Another reason for constructing these facilities as part of the
Development Program is that they would be considered as part of the package
offered by Government to the population of each micro-zone, in return for that
population's participation in,the Program. Inter-village roads would be
improved to minimum all-weather standards with an 8- to 10-meter cleared width
and a 6-meter road platform surfaced with gravel over 4.5 meters to a depth of
20 cm. Drainage would be provided by lateral ditches, small culverts, and
paved fords. These standards would be adequate for expected traffic volumes
up to 50 vehicles per day. Farm access and forestry roads would be
progressively improved during the 15-year development period, mainly by
re-shaping existing tracks and gravelling in selected sections (about 10% of
length), over a 4-meter width to a depth of 20 cm. Drainage works on farm
access roads would be limited to lateral ditches and minor improvements to
stream crossings. The road improvement program for the first year would
include 45 km of farm access roads within the first three micro-zones.
Improvement of inter-village roads would begin in the second year. The
Development Program includes maintenance of all rehabilitated roads and about
100 km of existing unclassified roads each year.



- 22 -
4.10    Water Supply.  Water supply points would be provided with the
objectives of (a) improving sanitation and hence the health of the
population, (b) providing the additional quantity of water needed for
livestock development, (c) permitting garden irrigation, and (d) inclusion
as part of the package offered to obtain the cooperation of the population
with the Development Program. Water supply points will be included in each
micro-zone plan. They would consist of wells with pumps and in some cases
reservoirs, creation of small artificial lakes, creation of reservoir sytems
catching run-off water, and pumping from rivers to reservoirs. About 40 water
points are foreseen in the Development Program.
Schools
4.11    Primary schools would be constructed in communes (Omdas) which
presently have none. Tunisia's objective is to have at least one primary
school per Omda. Twelve primary schools would be constructed under the
Program. These would be staffed, operated, and managed by the Ministry of
Education. As in the case of roads and water supply, the advantage of
constructing schools as part of the Development Program is that they would be
considered as part of the package offered by Government to the population of
each micro-zone, in return for that population's participation in the
Program. The schools are foreseen in Tunisia's Five-Year Plan for Education,
and resources have been allocated for their operation and maintenance. Each
school would include three classrooms of 70 m2 each, and serve about 60
children per day. Assurances were obtained at negotations that this operation
and maintainance be undertaken by the Ministry of Education.
Technical Assistance (Annex 13)
4.12    The establishment of the Program requires foreign technical assistance
because of (a) difficult organization and management issues requiring
managerial assistance; (b) technical training needs of Tunisian staff; and
(c) the value of continuing the work begun in the Program area by German
technical assistance and by an FAO soil conservation team. Two technical
assistance teams are foreseen as follows;
Kroumirie-Mogods       Watershed area of
sub-zone        Oued Zarga/Oued Khil
and Oued Tessa
----------------- Man-years -------------
Agronomist; chief of mission                    3.2                    3.2
Livestock expert                                3.2                    3.2
Rural engineering and civil works               3.2                   3.2
Credit/marketing                                3.2                   3.2
Land use planning, land tenure                  3.2                   3.2
Soil conservation, forestry                     -                     3-0
TOTAL                                          16.0                  19.0
In addition, four man-months of consulting services are foreseen to assist the
"Office" to estabYish its accounting, procurement, financial systems and to
help establish financial reporting systems required by the Bank (para. 6.21).



- 23 -
4.13     Techn7ical assistance would be  (a) provided by the German Government
for the Kroumirie-Mogods area, as an extension of that provided in the
Sedjenane Project, and (b) financed by the Bank for the watershed areas of
Oued Zarga/Oued Khil and Oued Tessa, and for the accounting/procurement/
financial assistance. Technical assistance is required prior to Project
start-up, expected for September 1981, in order to continue work already begun
on detailed design studies, bidding documents and other requirements for rapid
implementation. Government would hire consultants to assist in these tasks
beginning May 31, 1981. About 24 man-months of such services would be
accepted for retroactive financing under the Bank loan, for a maximum of
US$200,000. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Nutrition (Annex 13)
4.14     Part of the payment for work by the population on the establishment
of pasture, forest, soil conservation structures, and roads would be in the
form of food. In addition, food would be distributed to families suffering
short-term declines in income as the result of these works. Costs have been
included in the Cost table as part of the cost of these works. It is
estimated that during the first 5 years of the Development Program 4,100 tons
of wheat and 1,000 tons of milk powder, vegetable oil, beans and sugar, would
be distributed having a value of about US$1.6 million. In the medium- and
long-term, nutrition of the area's population would be improved by increased
production of meat, milk, vegetables and pulses, more than compensating the
projected decline in wheat production (para. 7.03). Government would provide
compensation to those suffering a financial or consumption loss as a result of
the Development: Program (para. 6.10).
D. Implementation in Physical Terms and Cost Estimates
4.15     Implementation in Physical Terms (Annex 16).  Program activities have
been planned on the basis of (a) time needed to build institutions (creation
of the "Office," establishment of credit and input supply systems,
establishment of marketing system, planning requirements),
(b) the time required between bidding to the installation of equipment and
buildings, (c) staff availability and time required to install staff,
(d) time required for mobilization of funds, and (e) the time required to
complete various works based on actual experience in the Sedjenane Range
Management Projlect, the Beja soil conservation and reforestation Project, and
the Bank-financed Rural Roads Project. Implementation in physical terms which
would result from this schedule is shown in table 1 on the following page, and
in the chart attached to this report. Years correspond to crop years, with
Program year 1 beginning in September 1981.
4.16     Costs (Annex 17).  The total cost of the 15-year Development Program
including investments, establishment, operation and maintenance costs, taxes,
duties, physical contingencies, but excluding price contingencies, is
estimated at about US$232 million equivalent of which US$83 million in foreign
exchange. Annual operation and maintenance costs after year 15 are estimated
at US$10.5 million equivalent before price contingencies. Taxes and duties
equal about 15  of costs.  Physical contingencies equal 10Z  of base costs.






- 24 -
477<767 Aot7aoa                 20167                ~ ~~         ~ ~      ~ ~~            ~    ~ ~        ~    ~     ~ ~         ~     ~ ~~~~~1  2  3  4  5  6  7  R  s  l0  il  12  13  14      15      57-7
Il  Aranof oiaro-aaa,aa f~1   ohlol,,oitcdrar                Io.a              6         18       'IO       4,        Il         66         7          60Q          9 2   056        90        72       52        O8         ù 
0   oaoR aor,-      _a 87o17- 707h             a07--   67 ¾l0aI-0                                       l         0         O          î         10        30            42     5271               90       010      134       162         1)2
2.   Taa,  77  6146                  ...aînn    a-7  16                 -o                  £        55       l'        04     1,6)3      2,562      3,621      4,291        6,166 7.684    9,3A0   11,030  10,231  12,894  131,1)9            13,119
3.  îtatk aRa  ,
TsaaaîPOofaaaIaaaîaî                     77.               ~~~        ~     ~ ~~         ~     ~ ~~           ~     ~ ~        ~ ~         ~    ~ ~~          ~~45  -- - - -  -- - - - -        -         -
0)  Sabj-,oORatî-d 070a17707170771a,                          77.23                                        3         -          -        14                                                                                                    4  - -   
81Ooi/nn  SPplIy îa,,t-Ic
(i~~~~  -'l-)                              37.3                                     2        2                    4          3          3           3        6                                                         34 - - 
61  Oaan aaioaî                                                    77                        3    5                  3          5         4          4          5                    l                                                         40
61  7411a0001a07177 îgaata               7.                                                     -                                21 0  1       0         0            O       3         4        -         -        -         -          7
aIUpi  p StaIff                                         77                  l Il   3                      -          -         -          -                      -        -        -         -                          5-          1
4.677700             -71              SafatOa                            7                 12          -        -         -         -          -          -                                                               -                         12
aI  07a0n7a0t70aa77a76~-a7aa07776 -170                                                    -                                                                                  -        -         -         -        -         -      1000
oîOutaooaatlto 077670'                    07.                 0         ~~       ~~        ~     ~    ~    ~ ~        ~    ~~        ~      ~     ~ ~~         ~ ~       ~ ~           ~        ~     ~ ~ ~~~4  4  4  5  4  4  4- - - -- - 600
21  NIOkOol 17061770676767                07.                 -          O        2         3         3          2          2         O            o       o         -        -         -        -         -          20~~~~~~~~~1~    1  11  2    2 
aI  Iaa   077t.3                                                                               2        O         O3                   4          4          S           S                                                                  40
21 îohaaîa                                  07.                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            ~           ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1    3 1  2 2          - -  -         -         1
h01470007,6                                                                          45        100      100       000       100        150        150        150         045      1051     145       145      145         -        -       1,620
h-ItaaOalhbadOaodOItoLlItaa                                 0.S                            3        23                  3          4          4         5            6       7                                                          4 0
a TSîroadbldao                                                   7                 2s        is        19        16        19         oo        47         461          461     52        301      10        34        34       38         500l
41676yoîfaat7itagnst.                                                                                                                 19         16        5            15      OS        19       16        16        13                  020
0,hl' 17757077f            .6701i00176  Rt&         alg o.3                                                              -          -        21          -            -       -         -         -       10         -        -          62
71  7t677760071877,677070277t771i77          77.              ~~~~        ~~~       ~     ~ ~       ~~~~~~~100 1  6  2  3  54I  14      Il            7      10        99        14       I1         8       10         406
719f0i      1017   a77kaopad0.-                                                                2        O         3         3          2          O          O2                  2                                      -        -          20
aI  înil,aoqalaed                         77.                 -        ~~~       ~~~      ~~ ~ ~~~             ~~~        ~~~        ~~     ~    ~~~     ~~~~ ~~~~~20  OS 30 l  44  602  1  90 10  11 3 0  9I  l  3  86  771  923
Il   6760747-7                                                                        -        004      024       098I      24         416        5827                    5      950    104           06       86       81       03        8,5
6.  571071r2a7   okadFrar
a) Rf -75a77ad 7720676                                                    108       656    I1,366    1,660     l1,680     0,766      2.206      2.552       2,107   3,100    0,766    1,0614          -2-                -     0,09
P-07777    7t-r  Iotîaao    o0400.76                      1                   -    1,741    4,03    5,64          5,364      5.364     6,705      8,46         6,451  9,603  16,78        6,336         -         -2 7,47
0,t,oB-t                                                 h,,                 -        20       240      240        24 Il       401       360       560          420     460      600          -            -                     3,300
20  0076770 Onidalina,                     ha                  -       430    1,290    1,720      1,200      0,720      2.150     0,560        0.680   2,760    0,95020   1,460 ,        -        -         -    21,56I02,  I  2,1!3.   1,1o ~,60  2
aI  0n018 66o7r7n67,                         67                 50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  90  1l0  120  120  190      060        100         040       10l     160o         -                  -        -        ,14'0
aI   OrOOpaOaoRal7troOaOlnat7aotaOhalOtîs  ~~~~/a    ha                           175      675   1,650       0,525      2,650     3,300      3.430        4,300  4,025   5,450    5,350   4.700    1,875            715      41,550
a057a06077177766747n7a1t41  70.                -          3        6         6         4          7        56         21           21      Oc       31        27        31        54       36         277~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'l2 2   ~ 2  1  3  1  'I  2
Il07  poh-,a d0.                                                                    -                   83       26        91        098        1465      51           402     729       673      874    1,15      1,399    1 ,260      7,766
70Shaap~ pnoolad                                                 -7                           35       35      IL7        411L       717     1.115      1,2,3640    0,817  3,79       7 ,948   3,9562   5,7022    6,303   5,795        35,121
21  Inrl-     nol,7 7l                                                                           4        4        13         44        81        126        24          245     3212      445      44        566       713      654       3,962l
70   Coeot-t77                                                                                   -         -              -              -         48        215         676   1.500   2,61 9   4,027    5,98S5    6,097  10,79g5    34,233
1)  -aaraatoa                                                     7.-                            6       17        30         40        54         66         72          60      90       106        66       70        50       26         600
<t  Sa7a 17,647776067  bra~~~It Sataab- 1, 1k901, 72a0476Onnt31, 1960.



1                     1



- 25 -
Foreign technical assistance is costed at US$8,340 per month. Costs of the
5-year time slice Project are shown in Chapter V.
Component                       Cost of 15-Year Development Program /1
D Million         US$ Million
1.  Soil Conservation, Pasture works                  23.8               59.5
2., Forestry, Woodlots                                16.4               41.0
3.  Agricultural Research                              0.8                2.0
4.  Extension, Input Supply Services,
Fruit Trees                                     13.4               33.5
5.  Livestock Development                              9.7               24.3
6.  Short-term Farm Credit (Incremental)               1.6                4.0
7.  Farm Equipment                                    11.3               28.2
8.  Roads                                               5.6              14.0
9.  Water SuppLy                                        1.8               4.5
10.  Schools                                            0.9                2.2
11.  Foreign Technical Assistance                        1.4               3.5
12.  Management, Planning, Monitoring                    5.8              14.5
Evaluatioll, General Operation
13.  Studies and Training                                0.4               1.0
TOTAL /1                               92.9              232.2
(of which physical contingencies)                   (9.3)             (23.2)
E. Cost Recovery
4.17     The following table shows that about 74% of the operation and
maintenance costs of the Development Program would be recovered, which amounts to
407. of total costs. Recovery would occur through (a) user charges (on pastures,
village woodlots, livestock health and insemination facilities), (b) credit
repayment with interest, (c) sales of forestry products, (d) price margins on
marketed output and inputs. The object is to permit upkeep of works to be as
financially self-sufficient as possible in the long term. Recovery of costs is
projected as follows (with costs and recovery charges discounted to the present
at a rate of 10%):
Present value at 10% of            Recovery as % of
O&M /2  Total Costs/3  Recovery   O&M /2  Total Costs
------------Million D…----------   ------------------
Milk collection, livestock
health, reproduction
facilities                      0.6             1.6         0.6         100       38
Intervention centers (con-
struction)                        -             1.3         0.4           -       30
Farm equipment services of
"Office"                        1.6             3.8         3.1         194       81
Forests and woodlots               4.0            8.6         3.3          82       38
Pastures                           8.9           12.0         8.9         100       74
Other Government costs /4         10.2           19.1         2.5          25       13
TOTAL                             25.3           46.4        18.8          74       40
/1 Price contingencies not calculated due to uncertainty of 15-year price
projection.
/2 Operation and maintenance costs.
/3 lnvestment, operation and maintenance costs.
74- Includes all other costs from cost table except foreign technical
assistance, studies for areas outside the Northwest, and farmer equity
investments.



26 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by June 1, 1982 (a) user
charges for pastures, village woodlots, and farm equipment services provided
by the "Office" be established which cover at least operation and maintenance
costs, and a proportion of investment costs determined by farmers ability to
pay, and (b) price margins be established on output marketed (primarily milk)
and farm inputs distributed by the "Office" which permits the "Office" to
cover operating costs of its marketing and input supply activity, and which
exclude special subsidies to Program beneficiaires. These user charges and
price margins would be reviewed annually in consultation with the Bank. These
recovery charges are somewhat higher than those levied elsewhere in Tunisia,
and are therefore considered the maximum feasible given the poverty of the
Northwest region.
V. Financing And Administration Of The Five-Year Time Slice Project
A. The Five-Year Project
5.01     The 5-year time slice recommended for financing in this report would
emphasize the development of organization and management systems necessary to
complete the full 15-year program, development of agricultural services, and
much of the infrastructure necessary to start the Program (roads, office and
storage buildings, repair shops, equipment). Specific works to be undertaken
during the Project period would include (a) construction of 3 headquarters
office buildings, 20 intervention centers including animal health and
livestock facilities, 10 milk collection centers, 10 primary schools, 15 water
points, (b) construction of 450 km of rural access roads and 320 km of
inter-village roads, (c) soil conservation works including 16,100 ha of
permanent pasture installed or improved, contour banks and gully control works
covering 1,330 ha, contour guidelines on 5,200 ha, (d) reforestation and
woodlots on 5,500 ha, (e) acquisition of tractors, bulldozers and trucks to
undertake soil conservation, forestry, and road building, (f) acquisition of
vehicles for extension and headquarters staff, (g) provision of about US$2.6
million in credit (with price contingencies) to provide equipment, livestock,
fruit trees and farm inputs to farmers, (h) acquisition of about 115 bulls
and 1,100 rams for reproduction, (i) nstallation and training of staff
including the headquarters directorate, monitoring and evaluation unit,
subject matter specialists, extension, credit and input supply agents, and
other operations staff, (j) provision of 35.3 man-years of technical
assistance, and (k) start-up of agricultural research. Extension and
livestock services would be started up on 54,000 ha. The justification for
financing five years of the Development Program rather than a longer or
shorter period is discussed in para. 7.15. Subsequent time slices would
emphasize productive agricultural and fuelwood investments, and rapidly expand
the area treated. Three studies would be undertaken during the Project period
including (a) the preparation of a regional development plan for all of
Northwest Tunisia (1.5 million ha), (b) preparation of a rural development
project in Central Tunisia, and (c) establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system serving the agricultural sector. Assurances were obtained
at negotations that Government undertake these studies under terns of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and that they be presented to the Bank for
comment by January 1, 1984.



- 27 -
5.02      The cost of a 5-year time slice Project, including price
contingencies, is estimated at about US$61.5 million equivalent of which about
US$25.7 million in foreign exchange. Price contingencies were calculated
assuming an international and domestic inflation rate of 9% in 1981, 8.5% in
1982, 7.5% in 1983, and 6% thereafter. Price contingencies equal 26.8% of
base costs. The Project cost table shown below includes the same percentage
of taxes and duties (15%) and physical contingencies (10%) as for the 15-year
Development Program.
Foreign
Components                          (D Million)        (US$ Million) /l       Exchange
Local  Foreign Total   Local  Foreign Total        Z
1.  Soil Conservation & Pastures      1.5    1.0    2.6    4.0    2.5        6.5         38
2. Forestry, Woodlots                 1.2      .7    2.9    5.5    1.8       7.3         24
3. Agricultural Research                .1     .1      .2     .3      .2       .5        50
4. Extension, Input Supply
Services, Short-term Credit      2.5    1.6    4.1    6.3    4.0    10.3           39
5. Livestock Development               .5      .5    1.0    1.2    1.3       2.5         50
6.  Farnm Equipment                    .6      .7    1.3    1.6    1.7       3.3         54
7.  Roads                             1.4      .9    2.3    3.4    2.3       5.7         39
8. Water Supply                        .2      .3      .5     .5      .8     1.3         60
9. Schools                              .2     .2      .4     .5      .5     1.0         50
10.  Foreign Technical Assistance       .0    1.4    1.4       .0    3.5      3.5        100
11. Management, Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation., General
Operation                        1.9     .4    2.3    4.7    1.0        5.7        17
12.  Studies                            .1      .3      .4     .2      .7      .9         75
TOTAL                                 11.3    8.1   19.4   28.2   20.3    48.5            42
(of which physical contingencies)     (1.1)   (.8)  (1.9)  (2.8)  (2.0)   (4.8)          (42)
Price contingenc:ies               3.0    2.2    5.2    7.6    5.4    13.0           42
GRAND TOTAL                           14.3   10.3   24.6   35.8   25.7    61.5            42
/1 Discrepancies due to rounding.
B. Financing
5.03      Financing.  The following table shows financing sources for Project
costs during the 5-year financing period:
TOTAL COST                               TOTAL FINANCING
Government   Farmers    IBRD          German T.A.       Total
------------------- US$ Million Equivalent-------------
61.5                 31.5       4.3         24.0          1.7              61.5
The Bank loan of US$24 million covering the foreign exchange component of
Project costs during the 5-year time slice (excluding the cost of German
technical assistance) would be made to Government with a 20-year term and
4-year grace period. A longer than normal term is recommended because cost
recovery by Government would occur over a long period, which is consistent
with a long maturity on the Bank loan. The German Government would finance
100Z   of the costs for their technical staff working in the Project.
US$2.4 million (with contingencies) of Bank financing is foreseen for technical



- 28 -
assistance (a) during 1981 before Project loan signature, but after March 31,
1981 (i.e., retroactive financing of about US$200,000), (b) during 1982-1984
in the watershed area of Oued Zarga/Oued Khil and Oued Tessa, and (c) to
provide four man-months of accounting/procurement assistance (para. 4.13).
Another US$200,000 in retroactive financing would be provided from the Bank
loan to finance Project construction and equipment purchases between March 31,
1981, and loan signature (para. 6.07). Farmers would finance equity
contributions to farm investments in livestock, animal shelters, fruit trees,
farm tools, equipment, and farm water supply facilities (wells, pumps and
citerns). As discussed in para. 4.17, farmers would also finance part of the
operation and maintenance of pastures, farm machinery services, milk
collection, livestock services, and credit through recovery charges levied by
the "Office" and credit repayment during the 5-year Project period. The
recovery charges and credit repayments projected during the 5-year financing
period are included in the farmers' contribution above. Government would
finance all remaining local costs. Government has already earmarked D 2
million (US$5 million) of its 1981 budget to the Project. The Project is
expected to be completed by September 30, 1986.
5.04     The "Office" would be responsible for disbursing nearly all
Government budgetary funds for the Project, including funds obtained from
recovery charges, and Government budgetary funds to be refinanced by the Bank
loan. Funds not managed by the "Office" would be those used to pay German
technical staff which would be managed by the German Government, farmer equity
investments which would be managed by farmers, and funds required to pay for
the studies listed in para. 5.01 which would be managed by the Ministry of
Plan and Finance. The "Office" would obtain the assistance of BNT in managing
the credit component. Funds for the Project agricultural credit component
would be deposited and disbursed from an account with the National Bank of
Tunisia (BNT). Since the Bank loan would refinance disbursements made from
this account, all funds would have to be initially deposited by Government,
amounting to US$2.6 million equivalent during the 5-year Project period. The
Bank would refinance US$2.2 million. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that Government establish this account with BNT and provide all funds
required. Credit repayments made by farmers, with interest, would be
redeposited in the credit account with BNT for continued use by the Project.
Financing of the credit and the other components of the next time slice of the
15-year Development Program would be determined just prior to completion of
the first time slice (para. 6.20).
C. Procurement
5.05     Procurement would be the responsibility of the "Office," although
final procurement decisions for contracts of more than D 200,000 (US$500,000)
must be approved by a Central Government procurement committee ("Commission
Supérieure des Marchés") consisting of representatives of the Ministries of
Agriculture, Plan and Finance, the Economy, Public Works, and presided over by
the Prime Minister's office. This committee also resolves procurement
disputes, and can investigate cases of possible mis-procurement. Table 2 in
Annex 1 attached to this report indicates the contracts expected under the
Project, method of procurement under each contract, value ot contracts, and
whether the contract is to be established by the "Office" or by farmers.



- 29 -
5.06     International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  Equipment would be
purchased using ICB according to Bank guidelines for contracts having a value
of US$100,000 or above (farm equipment, road building equipment, trucks,
automobiles, motorcycles, and equipment for milk collection centers). The
total of such contracts is expected to equal US$9.6 million (about
US$12.2 million with price contingencies) during the 5-year Project period.
The bid invitations for equipment would be announced in "Development Forum,"
the local press, and to the embassies of the Bank's member countries and
Switzerland. Contracts for less than US$100,000 may be awarded either (a) on
the basis of local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) of Government which
permit foreign firms to bid and are satisfactory to the Bank, or (b) on the
basis of international and local shopping with a minimum of three price
quotations; subject to a total of US$2 million equivalent.
5.07     Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).  The civil works contracts envisaged
during the 5-year financing period would be executed in small lots and
scattered over the Project area. They would not therefore be of interest to
foreign contractors. They would include construction of headquarters office
buildings, repair shops, intervention centers (including extension centers,
staff housing, milk collection centers, animal health facilities), and
schools. Contracts for civil works would be established on the basis of LCB
procedures of Government which permit foreign firms to bid and are
satisfactory to the Bank. Particularly small construction works, having a
value less than US$100,000 equivalent, for which construction enterprises are
not interested, may be undertaken on force account subject to a maximum of
US$2 million eqluivalent.  Contracts for which LCB procedures are followed are
expected to total US$5.7 million, excluding price contingencies (about
US$7.2 million with price contingencies).
5.08     Other Forms of Procurement.  Small size contracts totalling
US$3.1 million equivalent (US$3.9 million with price contingencies) would
(a) be directly negotiated with suitable small-scale contractors using
Government procedures acceptable to the Bank (wells, certain road
improvements); or (b) involve direct purchase from distributors (farm inputs),
or be procured under national or international shopping (livestock, pumps,
small equipment), both after having obtained quotations from at least three
suppliers. Project works (reforestation, pasture installation, contour banks,
and some road building) would be undertaken by the "Office" on force account,
or on the basis of LCB or negotiated contract in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, when entrepreneurs are able to undertake
these works. ]Local entrepreneurs would be assisted with credit distributed by
the Project to purchase the required machinery, and by the Project's leasing
some of its equipment to qualified entrepreneurs to undertake this work. The
maximum amount of force account work would be US$7.9 million equivalent
(US$10.0 million with price contingencies).
5.09     Technical Assistance and Studies.  Technical assistance would be
financed by the German Government and the Bank. Recruitment of consultants
would follow the procedures of these institutions. Studies would be
undertaken by consulting firms recruited on the basis of Bank guidelines.
5.10     Operation and maintenance would be managed by the "Office" on the
basis of negotiated contracts, or undertaken directly by the "Office" on force
account.
5.11     Bidding documents or contracts of any kind submitted to ICB or
exceeding US$500,000 would require prior approval of the Bank, as would final
award of contract.



- 30 -
D. Disbursements
5.12     Bank disbursements would be made as follows (Annex 1, table 2 for
estimated contract amounts):
Category                              Amount       Bank Disbursement
(US$ million)     As Percentage
of Total Expenditure
I.  Construction (buildings, water points)               3.1                45
II.  Vehicles, equipment, machinery, livestock
for "Office" (excludes credit financed)            7.3           100% of foreign
exchange or 65%
of local expenditures
III.  Soil conservation, forests, and pastures, /1         4.7                 60
IV.  Medium- and long-term credit (for stables,
livestock, pumps, water supply, equip-
ment)                                              1.8                85 /2
V.  Incremental short-term credit                          .4                85 /3
VI.  Consultants                                           2.4               100 /4
VII.  Studies                                               1.0                85
VIII. Agricultural Research                                  .5                85
IX.  Unallocated                                          2.8
TOTAL                                                  24.0
5.13     Disbursements would be fully documented, except for works under force
account (Categories I, and III) and sub-projects under Category IV and V.
Where documents are not submitted, disbursements would be made against
certified statements of expenditures, the documentation for which would not be
submitted for review, but would be retained by the "Office" and BNT for
inspection by the Bank during the course of supervision missions.
Certificates of expenditure would be audited at least once a year, and a
report submitted to the Bank promptly thereafter (para. 6.21). No
disbursements would be made for staff costs, operation and maintenance of
works.
/1 Includes costs other than equipment amortization and office overhead
(staff).
/2 Bank disbursements (US$1.8 million) estimated as the foreign exchange
component (59%) of farm investments (not credit distributed). However,
the Bank vould finance 85% of medium- and long-term credit disbursements
by BNT.
/3 Bank disbursement to be made against the annual increment in BNT short-
term credit disbursement under the Project.
/4 Excluding those paid by German Technical Assistance, but including price
contingencies.



- 31 -
5.14     The disbursement schedule is as follows (Annex 1);
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    TOTAL
Bank disbursements         .5     3.7      4.2     4.6      5.0      6.0     24.0
(US$ million)
VI. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
A. The Development Authority
6.01     The Development Program is to be executed by a Development authority
("Office") which was created on March 9, 1981 for that purpose/l.  The
characteristics of an "Office" are well known in Tunisia and to the Bank. The
justification for establishing one to execute the Development Program was
provided in paras. 2.11 and 2.12. The legal framework is reproduced in Annex
19. The risks involved with this approach are discussed in para. 7.14(e).
The CRDA's presently having official jurisdiction over agricultural services
in the Program area would give up that jurisdiction to the "Office." The area
of action of the "Office" is therefore geographical, and is shown on the maps
attached to this report.
6.02     The "Office" would be responsible for the following under both the
Project and the 15-year Development Program:2
(a) Detailed planning of micro-zones;
(b) Supervising construction undertaken on contract, or undertaking the
construction directly on force account;
(c)  Purchasing and operating equipment for use in the Program;
(d) Executing works (afforestation, pasture installation, soil
conservation works, construction of roads and water points);
(e) Managing foreign technical assistance;
(f)  Acquiring farm equipment, livestock, plants, and farm inputs to be
distributed through intervention centers to farmers on credit. All
credit transactions would be supervised by "Office" staff and BNT
(para. 6.12);
/1 Law No. 81-17 of March 1981 creating the "Office Sylvo-Pastoral du
Nord-Ouest."
/2 Additional responsibilities, along with additional staff and resources,
would be added to the extent that the "Office's" activities expand outside
the Program area after the 5-year time slice is completed.



- 32 -
(g)  Providing and managing the extension service and milk collection
centers established under the Program;
(h)  Managing the agricultural research to be undertaken by INRAT under
the Project (para. 6.17);
(i)  Maintaining forests, pastures, soil conservation works, equipment,
buildings, roads, water points;
(j)  Providing livestock services (health, reproduction).
The "Office" would contract some of these works out to both public and private
enterprises (paras. 5.05-5.08). Although the "Office" would construct the
schools, the Ministry of Education would staff and maintain them. The
Ministry of Plan and Finance would supervise the execution of the three
studies listed in para. 5.01.
6.03     The activities of the "Office" would be undertaken primarily as part
of the implementation of the micro-zone plans agreed upon between the "Office"
and the population of each zone. Planning in each micro-zone would require
about one year and execution would require 5 years. Works would be maintained
thereafter by the "Office" and the population of the micro-zone. The first
three micro-zones (6,000 ha) would be developed beginning at start-up of the
Project. Detailed planning of the second group of six micro-zones (12,000 ha)
would begin upon completion of the plans for the first group (mid-1981). This
would be followed by organization and execution of works for these micro-zones
during the next five years following the same sequence as described for the
first three micro-zones. In this same manner, 6 new micro-zones would be
started up each year until 1986 at which time work would accelerate (see table
1, page 24). If successful in the early years, it is likely that the
Development Program would be accelerated.
6.04     The "Office" would have a lightly staffed central headquarters in the
city of Beja with a General Manager and deputies including an Administrative
and a Financial deputy Director also responsible for recovery of agricultural
credit, a Programming and Planning deputy Director, a deputy Director for
Extension and Research, and a deputy Director for Credit Distribution,
Marketing, Input Supply, and Procurement. Each would have a small number of
support staff. Central headquarters would have a monitoring and evaluation
unit initially consisting of four professionals, including a highway
engineer. The headquarters staff would be responsible for planning,
monitoring, and evaluating Program activities. All procurement and credit
would be processed through headquarters.
6.05     Each of the three zones (Kroumirie-Mogods, Oued Zarga/Oued Khil and
Oued Tessa) would have its own sub-directorate located in the zone (at
Sedjenane, Beja, and Le Kef respectively). Each sub-directorate would have a
deputy Director and staff involved in management, micro-zone planning,
agricultural specialties, extension, road building, credit and input supply,
equipment repair and operation, livestock health, and Project works. Numbers
of staff were shown in table 1, page 24.
6.06     The legislation creating the "Office" also defined its functions.
The draft organization decree defining in detail the organization and
functions of the "Office" was presented to the Bank at negotiations, and was
found to be consistent with the objectives of the Project as set out in this
appraisal report. A General Manager of the "Office", the deputy Directors of



- 33 -
each zone, several deputy Directors at headquarters, and ten professional
staff had been selected before negotiations. The organization decree would be
issued before presentation of the Project to the Bank's Board of Directors.
B. Status of Preparation of Micro-Zone Plans
6.07.    Detailed plans for the first three micro-zones were largely completed
*         before appraisal, based on the feasibility study undertaken for the entire
Program area during the period 1977-1980. These detailed micro-zone plans
include those for pasture development, roads, forestry, contour banks and
guidelines, gully control, intervention center establishment, other civil
works, and cropping patterns. The technical agricultural packages to be
introduced are known. The population of these micro-zones had been mobilized
during the detailed design period, and were found by the appraisal mission to
be in full agreement with the plans. Completion of these first three
micro-zone plans requires only the preparation of bidding documents for civil
works and equipment, some modification of extension messages and cropping
patterns as discussed by the appraisal mission with Government, and
organization of the population (para. 6.11). Implementation of the first
three micro-zone plans would begin in the second half of 1981 (hiring of
staff, construction, equipment acquisition, project works) . Since signature
of the Bank loan is foreseen for September 1981, a maximum of US$200,000 in
retroactive financing would be provided from the Bank loan for construction
and equipment acquisition before loan signature, but after March 31, 1981.
Designs of inter-village roads and water points are at feasibility level, and
detailed design is now underway. These designs would be ready before
construction begins in 1982.
C. Land Tenure
6.08     The land tenure issues discussed in para 2.09 would be dealt with by
"Office" staff who would assist in (a) informal land exchange between farmers
to reduce farm fragmentation and facilitate contour farming, (b) issuing
certificates of land possession for all private land to establish ownership
and encourage land exchanges (these would be authorized by the Governor of
each Governorate, but prepared and documented by the "Office"); (c) the
purchase of land from absentee owners unwilling to cooperate with the
micro-zone plans, and its resale or rental to participants, (d) improvement
and management of pasture-land by the "Office," and (e) where possible,
leasing to small farmers and landless laborers both grazing rights to
state-owned land to be put under permanent pasture, and arable state land.
6.09     The most difficult issue is the need to convince farmers to convert
presently cultivated land which is severly eroded, into permanent pasture
managed by the "Office" in order to arrest erosion. Private owners will have
an incentive to put severely eroded land into pasture because (a) it is
relatively unproductive when cultivated, (b) pastures are efficient producers
of meat and milk, and (c) certificates of possession will be distributed
legalizing private land ownership within the pastures managed by the "Office"
(there are presently no land titles in the Program area), (d) user rights



- 34 -
would be allocated to farmers as a function of land owned within the pasture,
and (e) food would be distributed to families suffering a short-term
reduction in income as a result of conversion of some of their land to
pasture. In the three micro-zones for which detailed plans are completed,
farmers were found to be enthusiastic about including their eroded land in
permanent pastures. If a large proportion of the population of a micro-zone
refused to collaborate with a feasible micro-zone plan, activities would be
re-directed to another micro-zone where the population is responsive. The
experience with the Sedjenane pilot Project is that skipped-over communities
decide to participate when neighboring communities are seen to be developing.
In the marginal cases, where less than 10% of the land owners of an area
destined to pasture refuse to participate or to rent their land to other
farmers, and their participation is vital to the success of the Program, there
may be reason to obligate them to sell their land to other participating
farmers or to the "Office." Under Tunisian law this would be possible when
the specific soil conservation works to be undertaken, which includes
pastures, are declared in a Ministerial decree to be of "public interest"
("travaux d'activités publiques"). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that such decrees would be issued when necessary in order that the required
zones within the Project area be available for these works, and continue to be
available for the purposes of the Project.
D. Participation by, and Organization of, the Population
6.10     The Plan for a micro-zone would become the agreement between the
micro-zone's population and the "Office," specifying obligations of each. The
"Office" would be obligated to execute the micro-zone plan and assure Program
services. In anticipation of possible short-term losses suffered by the
population as a result of Program work, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that Government provide compensation in such cases, under
arrangements established by the Government in consultation with the Bank. The
community's obligations would include; respect for and maintenance of
anti-erosion works; introduction of new farming methods designed to reduce
erosion and water run-off; agreement to "Office" management of privately
owned, but collectively used, permanent pastures and village woodlots created
under the Program; payment (in cash or in labor) of user charges for use of
pastures; maintenance of farm access roads; and reimbursement of credit
provided under the Program. Experience at Sedjenane and in Beja indicates
that the population would participate because the financial, nutritional,
health and education benefits of participation are high, and the costs low
(para. 7.05).
6.11     The population of each micro-zone would benefit from organizing
itself in order to negotiate more efficiently with "Office" personnel during
preparation of its micro-zone plan and in the execution of the plan; to
eventually manage certain works created under the Development Program; and to
provide feedback to the extension system. The preferred organizational form
combines the authority of local traditional leaders, who cooperated closely
during Program design in the first three micro-zones, with management
committees such as those developed in Sedjenane. Management committees are
freely elected by the population. In Sedjenane, a committee is established
for each community group sharing grazing rights to permanent pastures created
by the Project. Several committees are created in a micro-zone, depending
upon the desires of the population and their traditional leaders, but with the
assistance of the Project. The Sedjenane committees represent the population
in their dealings with the Project concerning the management of their pastures



- 35 -
and in land exchanges. The committees are informal groupings, and their
success depends upon the interest of the population. The committees have not
yet evolved in Sedjenane to represent the population in its dealings with
other aspects of the Project (credit, input supply, extension, etc.). This
more sophisticated cooperation was not necessary for Project start-up. The
Sedjenane Project has been successful in relying largely on the private
initiative of the population, with the management committee sufficient to
permit organization of the Project's collective action.  The Northwest
Development Program would replicate these organizational forms, but would be
flexible in permitting other forms of cooperative action to develop if desired
by the population.
E. Agricultural Credit: Implementation (Annex 14)
6.12     A credit component was included in the Development Program to finance
farm inputs and investments for the reasons given in paras. 2.18 and 2.19. A
Project account would be established by Government with the National Bank of
Tunisia (BNT). Government would deposit the required funds into the account
each year, as determined by Project credit commitments, less the funds already
available from recoveries of loans made in previous years. It is estimated
that about D 1 million (US$2.6 million) total would be required during the
5-year Project period (medium- and long-term credit, subsidies and incremental
short-term credit). The account would be managed by the "Office" and BNT as
follows. A credit/input supply agent working for the "Office" would be
located in each intervention center. He would be responsible for identifying
each farmer's credit demand and for collecting information required to
appraise that demand.  This would be communicated, along with the judgment of
the extension aigent serving the farmer, to the credit unit at "Office"
headquarters. Headquarters credit staff would be responsible for loan
approvals. Headquarters procurement staff would procure inputs and investment
goods corresponding to credit committed.   Payment would be made by drawing
down the "Office's" account with BNT. BNT would transfer Project funds
directly to suppliers. Suppliers would deliver inputs and investment goods to
storage areas at the 3 sub-zone headquarters. From there, the "Office" would
deliver them to intervention centers where farmers would claim the goods.
Accounts would be kept indicating the quantities and value of merchandise
delivered to each farmer on credit by the intervention center credit agent.
Loan recoveries would be collected by the intervention center credit agent at
milk collection centers since this is the point at which most cash
transactions occur between the "Office" and farmers. BNT staff, located at
Branch Banks in the area, would collect funds recovered by credit agents.
Funds recovered and redeposited in the "Office" account with BNT, including
interest, would be re-lent in the same manner. The account would thus become
a revolving fund, increasing with interest payments and Government deposits,
decreasing to the extent that loans are not recovered. If successful, this
system would be continued after completion of the 5-year time slice Project.
6.13     Normal BNT lending and repayment conditions would apply for all
credit except that (a) 100% of input costs other than labor and draft animals
would be financed on short-term credit; and (b) the BNT eligibility
requirements that either a subborrower have a minimum farm size or that he
belong to a Mutual Guarantee Society ("Société de Caution Mutuelle"), would
not apply. The effective on-lending interest rate is 6% on short-term credit,
and on medium- and long-term credit to small and medium farmers. Commercial
farmers pay 7%. Medium- and long-term credit is repayable over 5-15 years
with 0 to 8 years of grace depending on the type of investment. The interest



- 36 -
rate is negative in real terms, with price inflation presently at 9%. The
interest rate issue is to be dealt with under the Bank-financed Third
Agricultural Credit Project (para. 2.19). Government would finance the
difference between the on-lending interest rate and the World Bank lending
rate. BNT would be paid a commission for its services to the Project, equal
to a percentage of credit disbursements and of loan recoveries. The
percentage would be established in a "convention" between Government and BNT
defining the Project's credit system (para. 6.16). BNT currently receives a
commission equal to 3% of disbursements of normal Government-financed credit
("FOSDA" credit). The commission to be paid to BNT under the project would be
lower because BNT would share responsibility for the Project's credit
component with the "Office." The commission would be paid out of interest
payments by farmers. BNT would have an incentive to recover loans under the
Project because part of its commission would be based on loan recoveries, not
only on loan disbursements.
6.14     Credit agents would need training.  Such training would be provided
by BNT as part of the training program to be established under the
Bank-financed Third Agricultural Credit Project. Government payment for this
training would consist of part of the commission paid to BNT. The higher
level credit staff, seconded to the "Office" by BNT, would receive on-the-job
training by foreign technical assistants in credit evaluation, accounting, and
recovery.
6.15     A land title would not be required of a farmer to receive long-term
credit. Loan guarantees must however include land and chattel mortgages for
medium- and long-term credit, with ownership established by certificates of
possession distributed by the "Office." The "Office" and BNT would jointly
undertake a contract with each borrower specifying the obligations of the
borrower and the "Office," and permitting repossession of farm assets by the
Government in cases of non-repayment of credit, in accordance with Tunisian
law.
6.16     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above credit system
be operative no later than January 1, 1982, to permit credit distribution in
1982. This would require a "convention" between Government and BNT
established before January 1, 1982. It would be a condition of disbursement
of funds for the credit component that these arrangements be entered into. It
is not foreseen that the Project provide credit to participating farmers in
perpetuity. For this reason, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Covernment require BNT to develop its credit operations in the Project area in
order to satisfy future credit demand. Normal BNT terms and conditions would
be applied, although innovations introduced under the Project would be
continued by BNT to the extent that they are successful.
F. Extension and Research (Annex 9)
6.17     The research and extension component described in para. 4.04 would
address the problems identified in paras. 2.13 to 2.16, namely to define a
system linking research, extension, and production. Research would be short
and medium term, production oriented, and problem solving. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1982, the Government would cause the
"Office" to enter into an arrangement with the National Research Institute



- 37 -
(INRAT /1), specifying the obligations of each including the research to be
undertaken by INRAT. INRAT would be paid in advance to the extent of the
estimated operating costs. Research topics would be defined by the "Office's"
subject matter extension specialists, the planning teams, and the foreign
technical assistants.
6.18.    The proposed extension system represents a departure from the
existing extension structure, but is in line with extension provided by the
irrigation authorities. Extension effort in the 5-year development period for
each micro-zone would be intense with a high agent to farmer ratio (1 to
200 farmers) and scheduled brieting of agents by subject matter specialists.
At the end of the establishment period for each micro-zone the number of
agents would be about halved. Some of the field extension agents would be
moved on to new micro-zones and some of the intervention centers sold or
leased. It is presently foreseen that the responsibility for the extension
system remain with the "Office" after the 15-year Program is completed.
However, should the national extension system be developed satisfactorily, in
part based on the results of this Program, the "Office's" extension service
could be absorbed into the national system. The Development Program is able
to take advantage of a surplus of trained agriculturalists (para. 2.20).
Inducements to move staff to the Development area would be provided within the
existing salary and bonus structure available to agricultural "Offices" in
Tunisia. Extension agents would require training in extension techniques
(para. 2.15). In-service extension training would be provided by subject
matter specialists, some of whom would be prepared as trainers at ICARDA
(International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas), Aleppo.
G. Soil Conservation, Livestock, and Afforestation (Annexes 6-7)
6.19.    The maintenance of soil conservation works in agricultural areas is
essential to maintain their effectiveness. This would require demonstration
to the population that contour banks and ridges need to be respected and not
traversed by machinery or pathways. In addition, each would require "topping
up" every two years by a single pass in both directions with a patrol grader.
This would be done by the "Office" both during and after the 5-year micro-zone
development period. Pastures would be maintained as an effective soil
conservation method by normal management procedures of fertilization and
judicious grazing, facilitated by fencing constructed around pastures. This
would be the responsibility of the "Office" staff in association with the
population's organization. The major issue with respect to all of these
components is the need for the "Office" to obtain the cooperation of the
population in undertaking these actions, as discussed in paras. 6.10 and
6.11. This cooperation would be assured through the establishment of the
arrangements between the population of each micro-zone and the "Office"
specifying the rights and obligations of each, and by the financial benefits
of participation to the population (para. 7.05).
H. Monitoring, Evaluation, Accounts, and Audit (Annex 21)
6.20     Monitoring and Evaluation.  A monitoring and evaluation system would
be established by the "Office" which would collect information on inputs,
activities, and outputs of the Development Program so as to inform management
of the "Office" and of the various interested Ministries about potential
implementation problems requiring corrective action. Information monitored
Jl Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique de Tunisie



- 38 -
would include that on Program inputs (credit distributed, farm inputs
distributed, area planted under various crops, pastures installed, soil
conservation works completed, extension agents and farm managers made
operational). It would also include data related to objectives (crop yields,
income, and employment). At full development, seven professional staff would
work on a full-time basis in the monitoring and evaluation unit at the
"Office" headquarters. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that such a
system would be established by December 31, 1982. Semi-annual reports
prepared by the monitoring unit would be submitted to the Bank, along with
reports on Project finances and procurement. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the "Office" provide to the Bank at a time to be mutually
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, but no later than the closing date of the
5-year time slice Project, a Completion Report assessing Project achievements,
reasons for any short-falls and other information that the Bank reasonably
require. This would be used in a possible Bank appraisal of the subsequent
time slice Project. The "Office" would prepare a preparation report for a
follow-up time slice project, in which results of the first project are
analized, detailed plans for the micro-zones to be developed in the second
time slice are presented, and changes in the Development Program from that
summarized in this report justified.
6.21     Accounts and Audit.  The decree establishing an "Office" specifies
the accounting system to be used by the "Office" (Annex 19). BNT's accounts
have been maintained in a satisfactory manner as is required under the
Bank-financed Second and Third Agricultural Credit Projects. Assurances were
obtained that the "Office" and BNT maintain separate accounts for the Project
(in case new responsibilities outside the Project are given to the "Office,"
and because BNT has other lending activities). In addition, separate accounts
would be kept by BNT and the "Office" reflecting all expenditures on account
of which Bank disbursements are made on the basis of certificates of
expenditure. The Project would provide technical assistance in financial and
accounting systems to the "Office" (para. 4.12). The system used by
Government to audit "Offices" and the BNT provides for continuous oversight by
an auditor nominated by the Ministry of Plan and Finance. This auditor must
approve each expenditure and record income transactions. At the end of the
year the auditors of the "Office" and of BNT must certify whether the
accounts submitted to Government by these institutions are consistent with
expenditures approved and income received during the year. T'nis system can be
improved upon by the use of a more intensive end-of-the-year audit by
independent auditors, as has been introduced for BNT under the Bank-financed
agricultural credit projects. Assurances were therefore obtained at
negotiations that the Project accounts maintained by the "Office" and by BNT,
as well as certificates of expenditures used to obtain Bank disbursements, be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, according to
guidelines agreed to by the Bank. Audited accounts and audit reports would be
forwarded to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year. Bank missions would have access to the documents prepared by the
Government auditor during the course of each year.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Introduction
7.01     Summary of Program Benefits.  The 15-year development Program will
assist Tunisia to meet its national objectives of increased income tor the
rural population (particularly the poor), tood self-sufficiency, employment
generation, improved nutritional standing of the poor, and increased energy
production by:



- 39 -
(a)  Environmental benefits obtained by introducing new approaches to soil
conservation and forestry production which would arrest the
ecological deterioration of the Project area while expanding
agricultural production;
(b)  Introduction of a new model of rural development in Tunisia including
a form of organization modelled on that of commercial enterprises
(the "Office"), new forms of input supply, agricultural extension,
credit and marketing services adapted to poor regions;
(c)  As a resuit of the above, expanding agricultural production (para.
7.03) and in so doing:
i)    Improving the country's balance of trade by saving or earning
foreign exchange of an amount (US$ 23.7 million p.a.) equal to
7.6% of food imports in 1978 (measured in 1980 prices);
ii)    Accelerating economic growth given the Program's expected
economic rate of return of 16% (paras. 7.10-7.14);
iii)    Raising the income and consumption levels of about 20,400 farm
families, 40 percent of whom live below the absolute poverty
level, to a more satisfactory level at an economic cost of
US$1,120 per family (para. 7.05)/1; and
iv)    Creating a total of 115,000 man-years of employment during the
15-year Project period at an economic cost of US$925 per
man-year (para. 7.08).
(d)  Forestry production including rural energy supply (from fuelwood)
valued at US$5.9 million per year at full development (after
operation and maintenance costs deducted);
(e)  Improved health and nutrition of the population resulting from
increased income, improved access to markets (roads), distribution of
food, and construction of educational facilities.
B. Production (Annex 8)
7.02     Input Use.  Most of the above benefits are derived from the Program's
impact on crop and livestock production. Increased agricultural production
would occur (a) as a result of the attack on the major constraints to
agricultural production (inadequate organization and management of
agricultural services, soil erosion, absence of credit, inadequate input
supply and marketing services, poor cultural practices), and (b) by providing
technical assistance and investments. Improvement will be made by widespread
introduction of high value crops; improvement in the quality and timing of
soil preparation; use of fertilizers, herbicides, high yielding seed; and
introduction of farm equipment adapted to hillside farming. Higher milk and
meat yielding cross-bred cows will be introduced. The supply of animal feed,
livestock health services, and water will be assured to increase milk and meat
/1 Cost is computed as total Project cost in economic prices (para. 7.10)
discounted to the present at 10%.



- 40 -
output. Soil conservation methods including contour banks, drainage, planting
of trees and grass in ravines, and introduction of pastures on steep terrain
will reduce or arrest soil erosion and hence stop the decline in agricultural
production. In the absence of the Development Program, the present poor
practices would continue, and accelerating soil erosion would cause production
to continue to decline. Input use with and without the Program is projected
to be as follows by 1995:
Incremental Input Use
With          Without
Program         Program   Incremental
Fertilizers (tons)                         16,615           4,020        12,595
Pasture seeds (tons)                        1,730               0         1,730
High yielding wheat seed (tons)               200               0            200
Other seeds (tons)                          2,470             490         1,980
Labor  (Man-years)                         19,100           5,600        13,500
Cattle  ('000 AU /1)                           29              20              9
Sheep   ('000 AU)                             102              50            52
Horses  ('000 AU)                               14              9              5
Livestock feed  ('000 tons)                     26               -            26
Cattle under veterinary
Supervision ('000 head)                      59                -           59
7.03     Production.  Program actions would result in the following increases
in crop forest and livestock yields, and changes in the cropping pattern.
Present Situation                   Full Development  /2
Area   Production   Yield               Area   Production    Yield
(ha)      (tons)    (t/ha)              (ha)      (tons)      (t/ha)
(kg/live-                                (kg/live-
(m3 wood)  stock AU /1                   (m3 wood)  stock AU)
(m3/ha wood)                             (m3/ha wood)
Wheat              36,450      28,000       0.75            13,400    17,700          1.3
Beans               3,600       2,300       0.60             4,200      3,600        0.9
Chick peas              -           -       -                3,700      2,700        0.7
Forage              1,250           -       -               28,700          -        -
Potatoes                -           -       -                1,800      9,000        5.0
Melons                              -       -                1,250      5,500        4.4
Tobacco /3              -           -       -                1,250      1,250        1.0
Olives              1,700       3,000       1.75             1,700      3,000        1.75
Wood               50,000    100,000        2.0             72,080   162,930         2.9
b¶eat-beef              -       1,530      78.0                  -      5,955      188.0
Milk                    -       4,000    400.0                   -    71,930   2,800.0
Meat-sheep              -         545      11.0                  -      3,325       35.0
Wool                    -          90       1.8                  -        290        3.0
/1 AU = Animal Unit
7- Full development is reached in year 21 after Project start-up.
/3 The Program would not encourage tobacco production. The area shown under
tobacco is a projection of likely farmer decisions, since tobacco is a
profitable crop, and private processors encourage its cultivation in high
rainfall areas such as the Program area.



- 41 -
C. Returns to Farmers and Incentives to Participate in the Program
7.04       The incientives provided to farmers to participate in the Program are
several:
(a) Financial benefits from such participation (higher incomes from
improved agricultural production and from provision of marketing
outlets :for this production);
(b) Receipt of food as compensation for any short-term losses suffered as
a result of Program work;
(c) Social services provided as part of the social contract between the
"Office" and the community.
The costs to be incurred by the population as a result of the Program would
include:
(a) In some cases a short-term reduction in income (one to three years)
due to fencing off of areas to be put under pasture and forest offset
by (b) above;
(b) Provision of labor to maintain certain program works (pasture, soil
conservation works);
(c) Incremental farm input costs to be incurred in order to obtain
incremental production and income; and
(d) Payment of user charges for certain services provided by the "Office"
(pasture use, milk collection centers).
7.05     Farm budgets are developed in Annex 15 for each sub-zone
(Kroumirie-Mogods, Oued Zarga/Oued Khil, and Oued Tessa) to quantify the
monetary costs anci benefits of the Program to farmers. The budgets exclude
the value of food assistance and social services. Results are as follows;
Present      Future Without   Future With
Farm Model                           Income          Program             Program
---------------(US$1Family)-------------
1.  Kroumirie-Mogods; Large Farm (24 ha)         1,000              875              6,720
2.  Kroumirie-Mogods; Small Farm (5 ha)             345             290              1,710
3.  Oued Zarga; Large Farm (20 ha)               2,330            1,390              3,060
4.  Oued Zarga; Small Farm (4.8 ha)                 450             250                800
5.  Oued Tessa; Large Farm (40 ha)               1,350              600              5,930
6.  Oued Tessa; Small Farm (7 ha)                   545             400              1,055



- 42 -
This corresponds to the following financial rates of return to the investments
by typical farmers under the Program;
Farm Model                            FRR
1.  Kroumirie-Mogods; Large Farm                  37
2.  Kroumirie-Mogods; Small Farm                 45
3.  Oued Zarga; Large Farm                        22
4.  Oued Zarga; Small Farm                        36
5.  Oued Tessa; Large Farm                        23
6.  Oued Tessa; Small Farm                        62
The results suggest that the incentive to participate in the Program would be
satisfactory despite the significant recovery charges to be imposed. High
financial returns are necessary in order to induce poor traditional farmers to
participate. Such farmers are generally risk averse and will take up
innovations only if the Program carries most of the cost and hence most of the
risk.
7.06     Milk Marketing.  Marketing and price issues were discussed in para
2.24. The above suggests that despite these issues, existing price, subsidy
and tax policy, combined with the Development Program proposed, would provide
a sufficient financial incentive for farmers to participate. There is one
caveat. The analysis assumes that all production resulting from the Program
can be marketed at either official or free market prices. This is true for
all commodities except possibly for milk. Government milk price policy is
discouraging the purchase of locally produced milk by processors. The cause
is that (a) the cost to processors of importing non-fat dry milk and
reconstituting it into liquid milk, equal to D .06/liter, is lower than the
official price which they must pay to farmers for fresh milk (D .12/liter),
and (b) this difference cannot be made up by resale of fresh milk at a higher
price since the retail prices of fresh and )econstituted milk are fixed by
Government at the same level (D .094/liter) 1 There is evidence that the
market attaches a significant premium to fresh milk since on the informal
market for fresh milk the retail price (D .13/liter) is 40% above the official
retail price. However, the informal market is thin because it is illegal, and
it does not provide a sufficient outlet to permit development of Project milk
production. Government is now studying a proposal to introduce a dual price
system permitting milk processors to charge higher wholesale and retail prices
for fresh milk reflecting the quality premium attached by the market. This
would encourage processors to purchase locally produced milk. The fixed price
paid to farmers is high enough to encourage production if processors will
purchase it. In order to induce milk processors to purchase milk collected by
the Project's milk collection facilities, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Government permit the official retail price of milk to
reflect the premium attached by the market to fresh milk relative to
reconstituted milk.
7.07     Beef Market.  The Government fixes the retail price of beef on the
organized market at a low level and in a manner which does not permit
differences in beef quality to be reflected in its price. This serves to
reduce the income of beef producers who receive a small incremental price for
/1 The exchange rate is D 1 = US$2.5. Hence the retail price of milk is
US$ .24/liter equivalent.



- 43 -
high quality beef, and who have difficulty selling low quality beef such as
culled cows. The difficulty in selling low quality beef results from the
price incentive facing butchers to purchase high quality beef at low fixed
prices. Reforra of the system of fixed prices and introduction of a carcass
grading system by the public beef wholesaler (El Louhoum) which would link
price paid to beef quality, would be desirable. However, it is not essential
for the success of the Northwest Development Program since most beef would be
sold by beneficiary farmers on private markets where Government price policy
has only an indirect effect.
D. Employment
7.08     The agricultural population of the Program area is estimated at
143,000 people, including 41,000 which are members of families owning no land
and dependent upon employment in agriculture. About 50% of the population is
of working age. Only 60% of the available labor days are used. At full
development the Program would permit about 70% of the unoccupied labor in the
area to be fully employed (about 3.8 million additional work days per year),
primarily on family farms, but partly in maintenance of forests, roads,
pastures, and erosion control works. In addition, it is estimated that a
total of 3.5 million man-days of employment would be created by Program
investments during the 15-year period (soil conservation, forestry, pasture
installation). Total cost in economic prices per man-year employnent created
for the 15-year Development Program is estimated at US$925/1.  This
beneficial impact on employment is largely responsible for the distribution of
nearly one-fifth of the income benefits derived from the Program to the
landless (para. 7.09).
E. Distribution of Benefits
7.09     There are 20,420 families dependent upon agriculture in the Program
area (comprising the 143,000 people reported above). There are 14,600 farms.
Many of the landless work as hired labor for other farmers or for the Forestry
Department. The distribution of benefits, excluding those accruing to
Government, is projected as follows, per annum at full development:
Incremental Income from
Percent of   the Program Accruing to   Percent of Land Owned
Farmer Category   Population            Group                 by Group
Landless              28.8                18.5                         0.0
0-5 ha farms        37.9                13.4                         8.6
5-10 ha farms        13.8                16.7                        10.8
10-20 ha farms         9.7                20.9                        13.5
20-50 ha farms         5.4                 5.7                        12.5
50-100 ha farms        2.7                 6.9                        15.3
> 100 ha farms         1.7               17.9                         39.3
TOTAL                100.0               100.0                       100.0
Income benefits include incremental farm income, incremental imputed income
from increased fuelwood production obtained by the population (recovery by
Government is excluded), and wage income. Distribution of benefits is
inequitable, as is necessarily the case given the inequitable distribution of
land. However, benefits are more equitably distributed than the land due to
/i US$106.5 million/115,185 man-years employment for 15-year period.



- 44 -
(a) the large increase in wages generated by Program works and increased
agricultural activity accruing almost entirely to the landless, (b) the
greater intensification of agriculture on small farms than on large resulting
in a greater increase in income per hectare on small farms, (c) the use by
the smallest farmers of state land under the Program, and (d) the equitable
distribution of fuelwood.
F. Economic Analysis (Annex 20)
7.10     Approach.  Economic benefits equal the incremental value of crop,
forestry and livestock production projected to result from the Program, valued
at economic prices (defined below). Costs include incremental farm input
costs, Program investment costs, and Operating costs, also valued at economic
prices. The overall economic rate of return is that encompassing all such
benefits and costs. The economic analysis revalues those outputs, inputs, and
investments which are tradable on world markets at border prices, adjusted for
handling and transport costs within Tunisia. Outputs and inputs which are not
tradable on world markets (such as Tunisian labor, cement, transport, draft
animals, marketing costs, etc.) are valued at the marginal economic cost of
their supply for Program purposes. This is estimated by decomposing the
domestic cost of production into foreign exchange costs and primary inputs
using an input-output table of the economy. Foreign exchange costs are valued
at border prices, and primary inputs such as labor at their opportunity cost.
Important causes for differences between market prices and economic prices are
Tunisian indirect taxes and tariffs, import quotas, the excess of wages for
unskilled labor over their opportunity cost and prices fixed by Government
either above or below world prices as discussed in Chapter 2.
7.11     Relationship of Economic Prices to Domestic Prices.  Ratios of
economic prices adjusted for relative price inflation through 1990, to
financial prices for principle commodities and inputs are as follows:
Outputs                                      Inputs
Durum wheat    1.26         Super phosphate       2.00       Construction           .60
Bread wheat    1.20        Ammonium nitrate       1.90       Livestock             .92
Beef            1.59       Herbicides             1.30       Equipment             .80
Lamb            1.13       Tractor services        .78       Vehicles              .69
Milk             .80       Animal feed            2.14       Professional staff   .70
Beans           1.02       Cereal seed            1.06       Operation and
Maintenance Costs    .60
Potatoes         .97       Pulses seed             .91       Farm labor            .50
Tobacco         1.02       Forage seed             .91       Wells                 .80
Vegetable seed         .91       Marketing Costs       .75
As indicated in paras. 2.24 and 2.26, these ratios suggest considerable input
subsidies (financial prices lower than their economic costs) for fertilizer,
chemical inputs, and animal feed; and significant price distortions for milk
and beef. The high ratios for durum wheat and bread wheat reflect the
projection of relative world price increases for these commodities by 1990,
and do not represent price distortions. The low ratios for construction,
operation and maintenance costs reflect the high proportion of labor in these



- 45 -
operation and maintenance costs reflect the high proportion of labor in these
costs.
7.12     The benefil: build-up period projected for agricultural production is
conservative involving a combination of (a) the 15 years required to complete
investments in all of the Program's micro-zones, (b) the 6-year period
required to begin Program innovations on all participating farms in each micro-
zone, (c) the assumption that only 90% of farms would participate in Program
actions at full development, and (d) the 6- to 10-year benefit build-up
period on individuaL farms after innovations are begun. The result, rounded
off, is as follows (Annex 20 for details):
% of Total Incremental Agricultural Benefits (Approximate)
Year    1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21-30
O 0 0 1 2 4 6 10 15  20 25  35  4550  6070 80 85 90 95 97   100
Benefits from reduced sedimentation of the Sidi Salem dam reservoir resulting
from the Program were estimated as the incremental amount of water stored as
the result of reduced sedimentation with the Northwest Development Program,
multipled by the economic value per m3 of water as established in the Bank's
appraisal report for the Sidi Salem multipurpose Project (Report No.
1215-TUN). Benefits of the Program's forestry component were computed as
increased off-take of forestry products resulting from the Program.
7.13     The economic rate of return to the entire 15-year Program is estimated
at 16%. Estimation of separable rates of return to various Project components
would be misleading since each contributes jointly to overall benefits. Soil
conservation and agricultural intensification, credit, extension, research,
roads, etc., have no separable benefit.
G. Program and Project Risks
7.14     The assessment of risks is based to a substantial degree on the findings
by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department with respect to agricultural
Projects ./1
(a)  Bank experience is that success in institution building requires the
full backing of the borrower. Project institution building should be
linked to the policy environment and to overcoming general sector
constraints. Under the Northwest Development Program, each of the
institutional reforms foreseen is proposed by Government. These
institutional reforms were designed to overcome constraints to
successful Program implementation observed at the sector level. They
respond to the existing policy environment.
/1 IBRD Report No. 3117, "Sixth Annual Review of Project Performance Audit
Results," September 1980.
IBRD Report No. 3102, "Annual Report on Operations Evaluations," August
1980.



- 46 -
(b) Bank experience has been that technical agriculture packages must be
adapted to the agricultural, economic, policy, and social environments.
Market conditions including prices must be favorable or there is
substantial risk that such packages will not be accepted by farmers.
The packages must be supported by adaptive research. The technical
packages developed for the Northwest Development Program were adapted to
the specific conditions of the region, in particular the conditions of
severe soil erosion, hillside farming, social factors such as land
tenure, organization of production, etc. The packages have been
successful elsewhere in Tunisia. Prices are presently favorable to
producers.  An adaptive research component has been included in the
Program.
(c) Farmer behavior in response to Projects is often incorrectly predicted.
During preparation of the Northwest Development Program, farmer response
was obtained to design recommendations. Farmers have participated in
preparation and will negotiate with the "Office's" planning teams over
the content of micro-zone plans. An agreement will be undertaken with
the population of each micro-zone.
(d)  Delays in agricultural projects are common.  This was handled for the
Northwest Development Program by avoiding the tendency to include too
many actions in a short (5- to 6-year) period. Rather, the Program is
expected to require 15 years to complete, with the Bank financing a time
slice of 5 years.
(e) Bank experience has been that it is often preferable for agricultural
projects to be implemented by existing agencies. This avoids conflict
between new and existing institutions, avoids staffing problems which
new institutions often face when becoming established, avoids the
weakening of the existing institutions which is often the result of
creation of new ones, and provides for continuity after Project
completion. For the Northwest Development Program, it was determined
with Government that existing institutions are unable to implement
Program actions, and that a new institution was required. The new
institution would be a permanent organization, assuring upkeep after
completion. Such institutions are becoming part of the administrative
environnent in Tunisia (para. 2.12).
(f)  There are the normal risks of a reduction in commitment to the Program
by Government resulting in reduced manpower or financial resources
allocated to it or its termination upon completion of the 5-year time
slice Project, unforeseeable difficulties of implementing institutional
reforms (credit, input supply, marketing, extension, price policy,
etc.), or failure of Government to provide an adequate outlet for milk.
These would all serve to delay completion and reduce benefits.
7.15     Sensitivity Analysis.  The risks  discussed above would involve either
reductions in crop yields compared to those projected (risk b), lower
participation rates among farmers (risk c), delays or cost overruns (risks d and
f), improper maintenance causing benefits to fall (risk e), failure to complete
the entire 15-year Development Program (risk f), or other policy changes causing



- 47 -
any or all of the above to occur. Quantification of these risks results in
the following;
Rate of Return
(%)
Base Case                                                     16
Crop, forest, and livestock yields 20% less                   12
Participation rate 30% less                                   il
Project Investment costs 20% greater                          13
Benefits delayed 2 years compared to costs                    12
Forest yields 20% lower                                       14
Combination of 20% decrease in yields, 30% less
participation                                                7
5-year time slice completed, but not followed up by
remainder of 15-year program                                 7
It is also possible that farmer participation rates would be higher than
projected, relative prices more favorable to agriculture, or yields higher.
If crop, forest and livestock yields are 20% higher, the rate of return would
be 19%. Nonetheless, the sensitivity tests suggest that the Development
Program is risky. The monitoring and evaluation system would have as a major
task the observation of benefits so as to permit reduction in cost and/or
change in tactics if benefits are not being generated as foreseen in order to
maintain the rate of return of the Program above 10%. The reason for
proposing Bank financing for a 5-year time slice of the Development Program
was to permit a full assessment of initial benefits, costs, and strategy after
5 years facilitating redesign in a subsequent time slice if necessary. A
period shorter than five years would not be long enough to begin to observe
farmer response.
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01.    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government of
Tunisia on the following:
(a) That Government implement the Program in line with the objectives and
investments begun under the Project (para. 4.01);
(b) That schools be fully operated and maintained by the Ministry of
Education (para. 4.11);
(c) That Government employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 4.13);
(d)  That user charges for pastures, village woodlots, and farm equipment
services sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs, and a
proportion of investment costs; and price margins on output marketed
and inputs distributed by the "uOffice,l" would be applied no later than
June 1, 1982 and reviewed annually in consultation with the Bank
(para. 4.17);



- 48 -
(e) That Government undertake the three studies cited in para. 5.01 under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to be completed and
submitted for comment to the Bank by January 1, 1984.
(f) That Government establish a Project agricultural credit account with
BNT and provide all funds required (para. 5.04);
(g) That Ministerial decrees be issued when necessary declaring specific
soil conservation works to be of public interst ("travaux d'utilité
publique") in order that the required zones within the Project area
be available for these works, and continue to be available for the
purposes of the Project (para. 6.09).
(h) Under arrangements established in consultation with the Bank,
Government would provide compensation to those suffering a loss as a
result of the Project (para. 6.10);
(i) That the credit system described in paras. 6.12-6.14 become operative
no later than January 1, 1982 to permit credit distribution in 1982,
and a condition of disbursement of the credit component would be that
these arrangements had been entered into (para. 6.16);
(j) That Government require BNT to develop its credit operations in the
Project area in order to satisfy future credit demand (para. 6.16);
(k) That by June 30, 1982, an arrangement acceptable to the Bank be
established between the "Office" and INRAT specifying the obligations
of each in regard to agricultural research (para. 6.17);
(1) That a monitoring and evaluation system be established by December
31, 1982, and that the "Office" provide to the Bank at a time
mutually agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, but no later than the
closing date of the Project, a completion report (para. 6.20);
(m) That the "Office" and BNT maintain accounts to be audited annually
along with certificates of expenditures, as discussed in para. 6.21.
Audited accounts and audit reports to be sent to the Bank and
on-going audit results be made available to Bank missions (para.
6.21);
(n) That Government permit the retail price of fresh milk to reflect the
premium attached by the market to fresh milk relative to
reconstituted milk (para. 7.06);
8.02.    With these conditions and assurances the Project would be suitable
for a loan of US$24 million to the Government of Tunisia for the Project,
repayable in 20 years with a 4-year grace period. US$400,000 of this would
be made available as retroactive financing for technical assistance
construction and equipment obtained after March 31, 1981, and prior to loan
signature.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
TUNI SIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement of Bank Loanz/î
Part of
Cost Incurred
IRBD Fiscal Year             to be Refinanced        Disbursement      Cumulative
and Quarter Ending              by the Bank            in Quarter      Disbursement
… ------------------      (US  0oo    )…
Project Year
FY82
1          Decemùber '81            1,050
1          March. '82               1,050
1          June '82                 1,050                   500               500
FY83
1          September '82            1,050                   550             1,050
2          December '82              1,040                1,050             2,100
2          March '83                 1,040                1,050             3,150
2          June '83                  1,040                1,050            4,200
FY84
2           September '83            1,040                1,040             5,240
3          December '83              1,160                1,040             6,280
3          March. '84                1,160                1,040             7,320
3          June '84                  1,160                1,040             8,360
FY85
3           September '84            1,160                 1,160            9,520
4           December '84             1,240                 1,160           10,680
4           March. '85               1,240                 1,160           11,840
4          June '85                  1,240                 1,160           13,000
FY86
4           September '85            1,240                 1,240           14,240
5          December '85              1,510                1,240            15,480
5          March. '86                1,510                 1,240           16,720
5          June '86                  1,510                1,240            17,960
FY87
5           September '86            1,510                1,510            19,470
6           December '86                 -                1,510            20,980
6          March '87                                      1,510            22,490
6          June '87                                       1,510            24,000
(I This disbursement table assumes that the Bank loan becomes effective in
September 1981.



ANNEX 1
- 50-                                       Table 2
Procurement Procedures (Five-Year Time Slice)
Contract (without Price Contingencies)                   Amount /a            Method of        Supplïed tô Farmers
(US$ million)        Procurement         or Used by Office
a) Construction for "Office"
1. Headquarters buildings, repair shops                  1.4                   LCB                 Office
2. Intervention centers, milk collection,
animal health facilities                             3.3                   LCB                Office
3. Water points                                          1.1              NC and FA         Office and Farmers
4. Roads (excluding equipment and some salaries)           .1             FA and NC                Office
5. Schools                                               1.0                   LCB                 Office
b) Equipment
1. Farm equipment for the "Office"                       2.0                   ICB                 Office
2. Farm equipment for private farmers                    0.6              ICB and ILS       Office and Farmers
3. Soil conservation, pasture, forest,
road building equipment                               5.0                   ICB                Office
4. Automobiles                                           1.4                   ICB                 Office
5. Equipment for milk collection centers,
and livestock health                                 0.6                   ICB                Office
6. Equipment for repair shops,
construction, extension                              1.6                   ILS                Office
c) Soil Conservation and Forestry Works                      7.8            FA, NC and LCB            Office
d) Livestock
1. For reproduction (bulls and rams)                     0.2                   ILS                 Office
2. For farmers (cows, sheep)                             0.2                   NC                  Farmers
e) Stables                                                   0.4                  NC                  Farmers
f) Fruit trees                                               0.3                  NC                  Farmers
g) Farm Inputs for Farmers (incremental)
(Seeds, fertilizer, concentrate, other                   0.3              NC and  ILS      Office and Farmers
chemicals) /b
h) Consultants
German technical assistance                              1.5             German Government         Office
Procedures
i) Consultants
Other                                                    2.0                   BP                  Office
j) Studies                                                   0.9                  BP                  Office
k) Research                                                  0.6                  NC                  Office
1) Operation, Maintenance, and Staff costs                 16.2               FA and NC               Office
Total                                                  48.5
Price Contingencies                                    13.0
TOTAL                                                  61.5
/a In constant 1980 dollars equivalent.  Detailed cost estimates from which these contracts are estimated
are shown in Annex 17.
/b The amount shown is total incremental short-term credit for these items, consistent with the Cost table.
Total contract amounts would be considerably higher.
LCB = Local Competitive Bidding
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NC = Negotiated Contract
FA = Force Account
ILS = International and Local Shopping: minimum 3 quotations
BP = Bank Procedures



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
TUNISIA                          Page i
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
A. Implementation Volume of the Northwest Tunisia Rural Development Project
Appraisal Report (see Table of Contents for Annex Titles).
B. Selected Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector in Tunisia.
1. Analysis of Economic and Social Prices for Tunisia, Gordon Hughes,
(1980).
2. "Annuaire Statistique de la Tunisie," Institut National de la
Statistique, Ministère du Plan; years 1978-1979.
3. Basic Documents Prepared for the Fifth Agricultural Plan by the
Ministry of Agriculture.
4. "Budget Economique 1980, la Production Agricole," Ministry of
Agriculture, December 1979.
5. "Enquête Agricole de Base," Volumes for 1975-1979, Ministère de
l'Agriculture.
6. "Enquête Nationale sur Le Budget et La Consommation des Ménages,
1975," 1 Vol., (1978).
7. "L'Emploi Agricole dans le Nord-Ouest de la Tunisie," Ministère de
l'Agriculture, (1980).
8. "L'Evolution Récente du Secteur Agricole et Sa Place Dans l'Economie
Tunisienne," Ivan Bergeron (draft), ( 1979).
9. "Note d'Orientation, la Politique Agricole au Cours du VIe Plan,"
Ministry of Agriculture, October 1980.
10. "Projet de Crédit Supervisé (A.P.M.A.N.E.), Etude de Suivi et
d'Evaluation," Centre National des Etudes Agricoles, January 1980.
11. "Rétrospective Décennale de l'Agriculture 1970-1979," Ministry of
Agriculture, (1979).
12. "Rétrospective Décennale de l'Elevage 1970-1979," Ministry of
Agriculture, (1979).
13. Statistiques du Commerce Extérieur (Publication Périodique).
14. TUNISIA Irrigation Subsector Memorandum, IBRD Report No. 2997-TUN.,
June 16, 1980.
15. TUNISIA Pricing Study Background Paper No. 1; "The Net Impact of
Government Intervention on Producers Earnings per Unit of Output,"
IBRD, December 1980.
16. Staff Appraisal Report of the Third Agricultural Credit Project,
IBRD, November 1980.
17.  Projet de Développement Agro-Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest Tunisien,
Document de Travail No. 1, J. Poupon, December 1976.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
C. Studies Directly Related to the Northwest Project
1.  "Aménagement des Sous-bassins Versants de l'Oued Tessa Inférieur,"
Ministry of Agriculture, (1980).
2.  Développement de la Production de Viande Bovine dans le Nord de la
Tunisie, Rapport Terminal, FAO, 1 Vol., 137 p., (1980).
3   "Enquête Agricole de Base 1979," Governorate de Beja, Ministry of
Agriculture.
4.  Northwest Agricultural Development Project, Irrigation Component,
IBRD, December 1980.
5.  Note Relative au Projet Sedjenane, Cours sur l'Analyse des Projets
Agricoles Tunisiens, H.R. Haiem, (1980).
6.  Principes, Méthodes et Techniques d'Amélioration Pastorale et
Fourragère en Tunisie, FAO Rome, 1 Vol. (1973).
7.  "Problématique de l'Amélioration Pastorale et Fourragère en Tunisie
du Nord," Rapport de Consultation, David Crespo, 1 Vol. (1980).
8.  Programme des Nations Unies pour le Développement (UNDP), Rapport
Annuel sur l'Assistance au Développement, (1980).
9.  Programme International de Coordination du Développement Laitier,
Rapport Final, FAO, 1 Vol., 102 p., (1978).
10.  Projet d'Alimentation en Eau Potable des Zones Rurales Non-dézonées
par la SONEDE, 5 Vol., (1980).
11.  Projet de Développement du Nord-Ouest, Centre National des Etudes
Agricoles, March 1980.
(a) Composante Kroumirie-Mogods, Rapport Général, 1 Vol., 76 p.,
Annexes 1 Vol.
(b) Composante Oueds Zarga et Khil, Rapport Général, 1 Vol., 46 p.
Annexes 1 Vol.
(c) Composante Oued Tessa Inférieur, Rapport Général, 1 Vol., 48 p.
Annexes 1 Vol.
12.  Projets de Développement du Nord-Ouest, Périmètres de Mekna et des
Lacs Collinaires, Ministry of Agriculture, December 1980.
13.  Protection de la Retenue du Barrage de Sidi Salem, Aménagement des
Sous-bassis Versants de l'Oued Zarga et de l'Oued Khil, Ministry of
Agriculture, (1977).
14.  "Rapport d'Activités Agricoles," CRDA de Beja, (1979).
15.  "Rapport de Synthèse, Projet de Développement du Nord-Ouest,"
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, April 11, 1980.



4                        4                            -   2    Xg  E    E g          4  4      .     4        E                n  4E   4'8pc.4E    
= -E      4 4 °   4        4 0          4 4 4 4 4                               «E                                                     '==   g  4 - 4  gaEP'9E 
rog                                                                                                         4     oXnOwqrE'M    'E     =É  
a 44        ° E    fi        E       E.           8 24       w         2           R     DE           E = E                  = n q 
o   n  effl E  E   E   2 >   C 3   n      E     E-    n      E h         »   E                  r   C   2 
E             n                                             gE                 H     E     9fh          E         
__ _    ._                                                                    _ ___                        ___ ____        _ i e                                                    ti _t       q
__~              ~ __ __ _                                                            _ _ _             -_ _ _ _ _ _ffl=_                         =_
_            _ _              _     _    __                      _     __                                     _        _       _          _ _J~      X
____                     __ __           __      _ __              _                 __ ,.           __                         ,,                           i






TDISIA.
0031ST   3/08-1I 8000.0F100 I0031aE
NORYTladS  MT'AL DEVYIOFMYNT PROJECT
IEp1:V allat¶iin Scla/nel!l
198/______                                                                         1986
1980                     1988Pn   Z Bdnk Loan: - -                1982                          e Z        1888   _                        -3_-=-                                         - -               -               Year98
lO t   -D a n .  jaî.-A p r.  Il .y-A ug.  S ap t.  - D ec.  3 dt.-9 3 0 .  l ay  A il.  S np t.-D L e.  Jiii.    -A trr-  iia/  A il.  S ap t; lion.  .iai.-A po .  lin - lA e.  S apL .-El ai.  Ja n.-A p r.  Ikp -A Il.  SM p t.- D ec.  îa n î -p r .  i Da lYA nT .  O np î.-0 n C .
.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J- -Ap- -   - -
A.D. Pot l.n  pl-cfniiai  a       nlia    6.V                                                                                                                                                 FT-
lvi   A.Oanlldpînsfraiiîîd friM     ulllGnin-                                                     E                                                                               l11
*xI ~pk-ptA ..........., -k:ndd  ......... f-   E .u- .......  n     
.I   nnînlî  il n. A.,ln .n sa=
lItjIIA . D       010~ P.    f. aad liti)
XiVIl,.  A.  iiiaBa.   plorltil-î83    8    oesP. 
I.  Upknan  0 nîr  sonna. -
A.  nnniîni
-111.  A. 60B. Plannlagaos"Il      nnnn  011   ti
0I.C.   Upî-poif als-a...a..
El.  -pkappk..iiîfl                     f
3110   C.ill hslfl       1iaca
b10 Pann.anniE   n   pia    Ialsii                                                                                                                        






8'30'                                      9'00                                       9ç30
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                      .                        a
Project area components:
| Kroumirie - Mogods
| Zarca                        0        10       20        30        40        50                                 ZTE
Tessa Inferieur                                                                                                 BIZERTEJ
-    Governorate boundaries                               Kdometers
-   Commune boundaries
-       Cheikhat boundories .
Governorate headquarters                                               Menzel
©    Commune heodquarters                j-|e
Paved roods
Unpaved roads                                                                       \
Rivers
-.-     International boundary                        EZZOUARAA
Ai,           .                                0p.    E GHANrM-
"Tabarkas~~                     ~ 
-    --  . ~~~~~~~gENNA
(0Honunorc Boaguba         ERNMETIR Ae rb
(z/:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KA M`/`= 
ALGERIA                               -B0UÙE1JRTMADAM                                                                                    6r30e
(                                                 f2<Ghardimaou (S> v t S , , I'n,                              t t Q / `' Bo b Ba
--  ~ ~ ~ ~     !TMdL            TEE7        S~~~~~~~~~KHiR
eI   ENDOUBAOEBI
hGordimaou
BS MASAORJDJ  EL KûIE
L~~9SakietSi YoussefS  })  &   )  5f   ;        /g<.    \                               the convemenye Off ethecX stde V fotff.~i~~'iy ffi
\\5s E\. KEF         Dl     \. EL SET                          9           1                    wor d Sank and zESSENOUA  T.  - da  th, an
J~~~~~~~~~~~~A, RA t                   - S                                                              jOg,nn oIL AN, fhe0 oracgpan     ofuhofunar e/
}  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h~a
s  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   pl,-t.p    h
36-0        /  O/OK                                                                                 M t           
y               N~~-ytw~-
l ru Â~~~~~~~~~Sia                                           )                                                       L UISIA   2f
X                      $     >    .te         <          1ALGERiA \IBL13YA                          ctn 
A53j)     \      DAM                               "r
.-TfeTees        tSf  T'i30   KLoc,e- Jtriet  //        .        00 -oe                                     j                                    'or






IBRD 15396
<t~~~~~~~~~t
Co ~  ~     ~       
QI~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1 Ih~~~~~~~~~~_____                                                                  .        
L.AI
0008  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
QG  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
LL,J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................
o                  g      h              __ __                                              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u



