Document of               lmE   COP?
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3044-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 30, 1981
| This document bas a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only la the performace of
their oOicial duties. Its contents may net otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorisation.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating.  The rate
used in the President's and Staff Appraisal Reports, which approximates
the current rate, is :
US$1              =   D  0.400
Dl                =   US$2.50
Dl million        =   US$2.5 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                      =   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                 =   0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer (km2)            =   0.386 sq.mile - 100 ha.
1 hectare (ha)                   =   2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                  =   2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)             =   2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR       =   CALENDAR YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNT       Banque Nationale de Tunisie (National Bank of Tunisia)
CNEA       Centre National des Etudes Agricoles (National Center for
Agricultural Studies)
CRDA      Commissariat Regional au Developpement Agricole (Regional
Agricultural Development Commission)
FAO/CP    IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program
INRAT     Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique de Tunisie
(National Agricultural Research Institute of Tunisia)
PPAR      Project Performance Audit Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Tunisia
Amount;         US$24 million equivalent, in various currencies.
Terms:          The loan would be repayable over 20 years, including a 4-year
grace period, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
Relending
Terms:         The Borrower, through a Development Authority (Office) estab-
lished to execute the project, would on-lend to small and
medium farmers about Ub$2.2 million equivalent of the pro-
ceeds of the loan using an account held by the Office in the
National Bank of Tunisia (BNT). The interest rate for such
subloans would be 6 percent and repaynent periods would vary
in accordance with the type of investment, from 5 to 15 years
with grace periods up to 8 years.
Project
Description;  The proposed project would help finance a 5-year time slice
of the Borrower's 15-year development program for the North-
west region which aims to increase the incorne and improve the
nutrition, health, and education of the population while
reducing soil erosion and thereby arresting the decline in
agricultural productivity. The program would also create
employment possibilities, develop local energy resources, and
reduce the sedimentation rate of the Sidi Salem reservoir.
The project would concentrate on establishing the institu-
tions which would implement the program, including the
Office, and the extension, research, credit, and livestock
development services. The project would also start up
specific agricultural, soil conservation and forestry activi-
ties, together with productive infrastructure works, and
would include a foreign technical assistance component.
Benefits and:  The 15-year program would improve the planning of rural
Risks:        development activities and investment programs in the North-
west and their implementation through better organization and
decentralization of the Ministry of Agriculture's functions
and decision-making process. In addition to improving the
country's balance of trade by about $24 million per year
(1980 prices) at full development, the income and consumption
levels of about 20,400 farm families would be substantially
increased. This would affect about 143,000 people of whom 40
percent presently live below the absolute poverty level.
About 115,000 cumulative man-years of additional employment
would be generated from program investments, agricultural
This_document_has_a_restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
development and maintenance of program works. This employ-
ment would benefit almost entirely landless farm labor and
small farmers.  The main risks involved in the program would
be lower participation by the farmers than foreseen and the
difficulty of implementing the institutional reforms proposed
in the program such as that of the milk price system. Other
risks involve possible financial or staff shortages, and the
possibility that Government does not complete the program.
However, in view of the high priority attached by Government
to developing the Northwest, one of the poorest regions of
the country, Government's commitment is high, and it is
expected that the program, including the institutional
reforms foreseen, will take place as envisaged.
Estimated Costs:                            Project              15-year Program
Local      Foreign    Total          Total
------- (Us$ Million) ------    (U$ Million)
Soil Conservation,
Pastures                     4.0          2.5        6.5          60
Forestry, Woodlots              5.5         1.8        7.3          41
Agricultural Research            .3          .2         .5           2
Extension, Input Supply
Services, bhort-term
Credit (Incremental)          6.3         4.0       10.3          38
Livestock Development           1.2         1.3        2.5          24
Farm Equipment                  1.6         1.7        3.3          28
Roads                           3.4         2.3        5.7          14
Water Supply                     .5          .8        1.3            4
schools                          .5          .5        1.0           2
Technical Assistance             -          3.5        3.5           4
Management, Planning,
Monitoring, Evaluation,
General Operation            4.7          1.0        5.7          14
Studies                          .2          .7         .9            1
Total Base Cost                28.2        20.3       48.5         232 /1
(Of which physical
contingencies)               (2.8)       (2.0)      (4.8)        (23)
Price Contingencies             7.6         5.4       13.0           /2
Grand Total          35.8 /3    25.7        61.5           /2
/1 Including $83 million of foreign exchange.
77 Price contingencies not calculated due to uncertainty of 15-year price
projection.
/3 Including $9.2 million of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan;                                       Local   Foreign   Total
(US Million)------
IBRD                                              -        24.0       24.0
German Technical Assistance                        -        1.7        1.7
Government                                      31.5         -        31.5
Farmers' Contribution                            4.3         -         4.3
TOTAL                                    35.8       25.7       61.5
Estimated                    FY82      FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87
Disbursements:              -----------------UÛ$ Million)-----------------
Annual                   0.5       3.7      4.2       4.6       5.0      6.0
Cumulative               0.5       4.2      8.4      13.0      18.0     24.0
Economic Rate
of Return:             16 percent for the 15-year development program and 7
percent for the 5-year project (paras. 66 and 67).
Staff Appraisal
Report;                No. 3316a-TUN, dated April 30, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORb ON A PROPOsED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNIsIA FOR A NORTHWEsT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$24 million to the Republic of Tunisia, to
help finance the foreign exchange cost of a Northwest Rural Development
Project. The loan would have terms of 20 years, including 4 years of
grace, with an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum. US$2.2 million
equivalent of the proceeds of the loan would be onlent to project bene-
ficiaries by the Development Authority (Office) established by Government
to execute the project, through an account established with the National
Bank of Tunisia (BNT), with maturities of up to 15 years, including up to 8
years of grace, at the interest rate of 6 percent presently prevailing for
small and medium farmers in Tunisia. The German Government would provide
technical assistance valued at US$1.7 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects
of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was issued on November 16, 1978. An economic
mission visited Tunisia in June 1980 and this part reflects its findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I; present economic projections
are provisional and strongly depend on the outcome of an ongoing study on
the future of domestic oil production and energy demand and on the economic
policies that will be adopted for the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86).
3.       Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with natural resources.  Much of
it is arid or semi-arid. The limited areas where dry-land agriculture is
possible are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuations in rainfall. The
adverse effects of climatic fluctuations are alleviated by expanding irri-
gation. Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates, petroleum,
and natural gas; however, the known exploitable reserves of oil and gas are
small, and phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality. There is
considerable tourism potential, and efforts have been made to develop it
rapidly over the last decade.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive
effort towards development of its human resources, paying special attention
to education and training as basic prerequisites for modernization. As a
result, the adult literacy rate has increased from under 15 percent at the
time of independence to 55 percent by 1980; the health and nutrition status
of the population improved, average calorie supply per capita increased
from about 80 to 112 percent of requirements, and life expectancy at birth
increased from about 48 years in 1960 to 57 years in 1978.
lj Part I is substantially unchanged from that in President's Report
No. P-2998-TUN of March 26, 1981 for a Small Scale Industry Development
Project.



- 2 -
5.       Tunisia's economy depends on rural activities to provide employ-
ment, but on petroleum and phosphate exports to provide foreign exchange
earnings. Manufacturing is rapidly becoming important in both respects.
The relative sectoral composition of GDP shows a diversified economic
structure. From the employment point of view (the country's most pressing
social problem), Tunisia remains an agricultural economy, with the rural
sector providing work for about one out of every three Tunisians in the
labor force. The direct employment effects of petroleum extraction,
phosphate mining and tourism are small, although these sectors make a vital
contribution to GDP, public revenues, savings and exports. From the export
point of view, Tunisia is largely a petroleum and mining economy with those
two activities providing 37 percent of the country's foreign exchange
earnings; all manufacturing activities and tourism together provide another
43 percent.
The Main Economic Sectors in 1979
(in percent)
GDP /1    Employment   Exports /2
Agriculture                                    16.2            35.0          6.8
Energy/Mining                                  12.1             1.8         37.1
Manufacturing                                   12.1           21.8         22.5
Tourism                                         4.8             1.5         20.2
Construction and Services                      41.2            25.4         13.4
Government Administration                      13.6            14.5           -
100.0          100.0        100.0
/1 At factor cost.
/2 Goods and non-factor services.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        Tunisia's economy has grown relatively fast in recent years.  GDP,
in constant prices, increased at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent from
1976 to 1979. Although this is somewhat less than the 8.6 percent growth
rate for the 1969-76 period, Tunisia's GDP growth of 8.0 percent for the
entire decade 1969-79 places it among the top 10 middle-income countries;
it also marks a substantial improvement over the relatively low growth
(4 percent per annum) experienced during the 1960s. GNP per capita reached
$1,120 in 1979, which, in constant prices, is about 73 percent above the
1969 level.
7.       The impressive growth achieved from 1969 to 1976 was largely
attributable to changes in economic management introduced at the beginning
of this period. In agriculture, stronger Government efforts to stimulate
production, reoriented towards promotion of individual farming, together
with favorable weather conditions, resulted in a near doubling of produc-
tion, a remarkable turn-around from the slow, but continuous, decline in



agricultural production during most of the 1960s. In manufacturing, the
degree of Government control declined, and more incentives were given to
private initiative. An increasingly export-oriented investment strategy,
coupled with a dynamic marketing effort, led to a rapid growth of produc-
tion, particularly in textiles, while tourism was promoted with marked
success.
8.       During the second half of the 1970s, the situation was quite
different, not so much in terms of overall growth (which slowed down
slightly), as in terms of the underlying growth factors: output in agri-
culture has virtually stagnated since 1976, partially as a result of bad
weather conditions; textile production declined in 1978, and tourism
development slowed down because of the 1977 slump in the European tourist
market. By contrast, petroleum production and, to a lesser extent, phos-
phate processing expanded making these two sectors the main engine of
economic growth over the 1976-79 period. After an exceptional low level in
1976, oil production increased by over 12 percent per annum up to 1979;
more important, however, were the large profits reaped by Tunisia from the
successive increases in crude oil prices, starting in 1974. These' large
additional foreign exchange earnings enabled the country to increase its
investments, from an average of slightly over 20 percent of GDP before
1975, to nearly 29 percent thereafter, and expand its public services at a
rapid rate. These two factors, in turn, triggered a rapid growth in the
construction industry and in local manufacturing of construction materials.
9.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particu-
larly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favor-
able. Even in constant prices, exports grew marginally faster than
imports. In addition, the termns of trade improved significantly, due to
higher export prices for oil and low import prices for grain. As a result,
the resource gap remained relatively small, and domestic savings financed
on average over 72 percent of the greatly increased investment effort. The
current account deficit of $500-600 million (1978/1979) was easily
financed: grant aid and private investments accounted for about 30 per-
cent, while the remainder was covered by long-term foreign borrowing. The
increase in lending to Tunisia from public sources allowed it to reduce
borrowing from financial markets and suppliers' credits. During the 1970s,
therefore, total foreign debt disbursed increased little relative to GDP
and the debt service ratio improved (para. 18). Net foreign exchange
reserves increased in seven out of the last ten years, but still repre-
sented only 1.5 months of imports at the end of 1979.
10.      Since independence, the public sector has played a major role in
mobilizing and redistributing domestic resources. General budgetary
revenues were equivalent to one-third of GDP in 1978 and 1979, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over one-fourth of these
revenues were saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of
total government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance
situation has led to a fast increase in subsidy payments to private con-
sumers and public enterprises. Such transfers have nearly doubled over the
last four years, accounting for 16 percent of total current budget outlays,



- 4 -
or 4 percent of GDP. This level of subsidies, to cover the increasing
operational deficits of public enterprises may not be sustainable in the
long term; similarly, consumer subsidies for basic necessities will have to
concentrate more systematically on the needy.
Medium-term Prospects
11.      The objectives of the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) have a good
chance of being achieved, except for the employment creation targets. The
actual GDP growth will be just short of the planned rate of 7.3 percent per
annum, while the investment objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or
30 percent of GDP, will be fully met. Completion of some large projects in
the public sector (steel, cement, expansion of the oil refinery) will, how-
ever, be delayed. Private sector investments, both foreign and national,
are likely to exceed Plan targets. The Government welcomes this shift from
large capital-intensive projects in the public sector to medium-scale
industries as a means to speed up employment creation. Open and hidden
unemployment is currently considered the most serious problem for the
Tunisian economy. During 1977-79, the domestic non-agricultural economy
could only absorb three-fourths of new job seekers. In view of this, and
of the fact that migration to Libya and Europe is decreasing rapidly, the
overall unemployment and underemployment rate, estimated at between 20 and
25 percent, has not declined markedly.
12.      The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) is presently in preparation.
Employment generation, food self-sufficiency, and more rapid growth in the
three most backward regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and
South) are likely to be among its major objectives. The outlook for over-
all economic growth during this period and beyond, will depend upon future
developments in the oil and natural gas sector. Based on known reserves,
it is generally expected that oil production will decline after 1981 from
its present level of 5-6 million tons per annum and will come to an end
during the late 1990s. The possible exploitation of some of the smaller
fields that may soon become profitable will not delay the declining produc-
tion trend by more than a few years. Some off-shore fields cannot be
exploited for the time being, because they are located in areas disputed by
Libya. Gas production in presently exploited fields (385,000 tons of oil
equivalent--toe--in 1979) is expected to cease around 1990. Royalties from
the Algerian/Italian pipeline will provide an additional supply of natura].
gas, rising from 200,000 toe in 1982 to 800,000 toe in 1986 and there-
after. Negotiations with Algeria on the purchase of additional quantities
of natural gas are proceeding, but have so far been inconclusive. The
Government is therefore considering the exploitation of the off-shore gas
field of Miskar, despite its high production cost. The optimal use of all
these resources is being studied with foreign assistance within a compre-
hensive long-term policy framework.
13.      While detailed macroeconomic growth projections beyond the mid-
1980s will have to wait for the outcome of these studies, there can
be little doubt that--barring large new oil discoveries--Tunisia will face



the consequences of a decline in oil and gas production over the next 10-15
years, and become a net importer of hydrocarbons, perhaps as early as 1987-
88. The Government is fully aware of these developments. It agrees that
the situation will require significant policy changes in the near future
and is analyzing the areas where these changes will have to take place in
the context of the preparation of the Sixth Plan. Unlike many other
developing countries, however, Tunisia has enough lead time to introduce
these changes gradually until the mid-1980s. This will reduce the
associated economic and social strains, and should avoid major balance-of-
payments problems. Assuming that the necessary measures will be imple-
mented, it is reasonable to expect an overall GDP growth of about 7 percent
in constant prices, until at least 1985.
14.      The expected decline in oil production and exports is likely to
have an impact on external debt and domestic savings, particularly public
savings. Changes in demand management will thus be required to avoid
balance-of-payments difficulties and maintain satisfactory economic
growth. In the public sector, the necessary restraint in current budget
expenditures will require a reassessment of present price and subsidy
policies, in particular for energy, basic foodstuffs, and transportation.
Considering the complexity and the pervasiveness of the present subsidy
system, and the impact its dismantling will have on domestic inflation and
on the standard of living (particularly on the 17 percent of the population
still living in absolute poverty), the introduction of changes into the
system will be a difficult endeavor, but ought to be initiated without
delay. As part of this effort, the subsidies to public enterprises, to a
large extent stemming from managerial inefficiencies, ought to be phased
out. In addition, interest rate and fiscal policies will have to be used
more effectively to restrain final consumption, particularly of imports,
and to stimulate savings. Finally, wage and salary policies will have to
keep labor cost increases in line with productivity increases, particularly
since Tunisia will have to stimulate tourism and make a greater effort to
improve its competitiveness in international markets by promoting exports
of manufactured goods other than textiles.
15.      A successful and timely implementation of these policy changes,
however, cannot prevent a decline in the domestic savings rate. This, in
turn, will require a corresponding adjustment in the investment rate below
the present average of 29 percent of GDP, so as to maintain a manageable
spread between domestic savings and investments. More resources will have
to be allocated to labor-intensive projects, particularly to small and
medium manufacturing enterprises, in order to ease the unemployment problem
and reduce income disparities, between rural and urban areas as well as
within each of these areas. While investments in education, health, hous-
ing and water supply will have to continue, they should be focussed more on
the neediest income groups, provided at lower costs (health, shelter), and
made more relevant to the needs of the economy (education, training).
Social Issues
16.      In general, Tunisia's social performance has been impressive.
Since independence, the country has come a long way towards meeting the



- 6 -
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 per-
cent of GDP is now devoted to social programs, although too many of the
benefits still accrue to the upper income groups. Education expenditures
rank first among budgetary outlays. The comprehensive education system
provides free access for all students, and the gross enrollment rate has
reached 100 percent for primary education and 22 percent for secondary
education. The performance of the system, however, could be improved by:
(a) expanding vocational training programs and improving their relevance
and coordination with labor demand; and (b) catering more to poorer and
rural groups. Public health services are second among social expenditures,
and their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the
vital statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in
the availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel, and the
medical referral system is not properly functioning. As a result, the
rural poor are often excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies,
infant mortality is still high. So far health services have concentrated
largely on curative medicine. To achieve better and faster results, the
Government is planning to allocate more resources to preventive medicine
and nutrition education. Finally, Tunisia faces a difficult housing
situation. Subsidized housing, the cornerstore of public intervention, has
not reached the most needy groups. The housing demand from households
above the poverty limit should be satisfied by the private sector; to this
end, adequate incentives need to be provided.
17.      Absolute poverty still affects one out of every six people in
Tunisia. Over the last fifteen years, the overall number of absolute poor
remained stable but declined in rural areas as a result of internal and
external migration. Most of the poor are unskilled seasonal workers in
agriculture and industry, small farmers, and artisans. Income differen-
tials between the coast (East) and the interior (West) widened, in part
because the system of price controls and subsidies as well as the tax
system and budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The
Government is using the preparation of the forthcoming Plan as an occasion
to focus on basic needs and poverty alleviation, with a view to abolishing
absolute poverty before the end of this century. Maintaining a low demo-
graphic growth rate will be an important factor for a significant allevia-
tion of poverty.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
18.      As mentioned above (para. 9), foreign borrowing remained limited
during the second half of the 1970s, and a growing share of foreign funds
was provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. During the
1976-79 period, foreign loan commitments averaged about $670 million per
annum, two-thirds of which in the form of Official Development Assistance
(ODA--$450 million or some $75 per capita).  About 70 percent of ODA com-
mitments came from bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canada, but also some oil-surplus countries, whose contribu-
tions averaged about one-fourth of total bilateral ODA. About 17 percent
of total ODA was committed by the Bank Group, and some 13 percent by other



multilateral sources. Borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 6.1 per-
cent interest and 18 years maturity, including a grace period of 4.8
years. At the end of 1979, debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at
about $2.9 billion, or one-third of GDP; debt service was 10.7 percent of
exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.8 percent in 1970.
19.      Direct foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s,
but have gained momentum during the last five years in line with increased
activities in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. Such investments have increased from less than
$20 million in 1969 to more than $100 million in 1976 and $165 million in
1979.
20.      The balance-of-payments outlook remains favorable, at least up to
the mid-1980s. Thereafter, much will depend on the policy measures
initiated during the next few years (para. 14). The main risk would be for
Tunisia to attempt to continue its policy of high investments and high
current social outlays in spite of the expected decline in foreign exchange
earnings and domestic savings. Pressures to that effect will certainly
exist. The new Government formed in the spring of 1980, however, is aware
of this danger and recognizes the need for change. Considering its long
record of prudent and skillful balance-of-payments and external debt
management, there is every reason to assume that Tunisia will formulate and
implement the necessary reforms and, thus, will continue to remain credit-
worthy for future Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
21.      Between 1962 and March 31, 1981, Tunisia has received forty-one
Bank loans and eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $765.6 million
and $70.1 million (net of cancellations) of which fifteen loans and nine
credits have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is
generally satisfactory. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been created
or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related sectors
or subsectors.
22.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Govern-
ment efforts to (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth
and distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented policies and invest-
ments; and (d) provide selective support for the development of basic
infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An
important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities
in the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through missions
and advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative
Program (FAO/CP) and the use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility.
The Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts to increase the



- 8 -
mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing for the
projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view of the
extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
23.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending
for urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, educa-
tion, family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning and
public transport project has accounted for 28 percent of Bank/IDA commit-
ments in Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism
infrastructure has accounted for 36 percent. Agriculture and fisheries
have received 22 percent, and industrial and hotel financing, mostly
through the Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), 14 per-
cent of total commitments.
24.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its
efforts in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and
social development. It will also assist projects which enhance regional
integration and help reduce the gap between income groups, and between
urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment
creation and institution building. In addition to the proposed Northwest
rural development project, the lending program includes projects in various
stages of processing in the agricultural sector, in industry, power, high-
ways, urban development and health.
25.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country including appropriate interest
rate policies (paras. 12 and 13). Two major reports in 1980 on the
mechanical and electrical industries and on the social aspects of develop-
ment provided a better knowledge of the country's industrial development
base and prospects in these subsectors, and a better understanding of
income disparities by evaluating the Government's social policies aimed at
poverty alleviation. Future reports will include a review of pricing and
subsidy policies in the rural sector, of the Sixth Plan (1982-1986), and of
the agricultural, education and training, urban and energy sectors.
26.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 12 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1970-1979. Their share in total debt out-
standing and disbursed at the end of 1979 (including loans from private
sources) was 10 percent and their share in debt service during 1979 was
Il percent. The Bank's and IDA's share in Tunisia's disbursed external
debt by 1986 is expected to decrease to about 7 percent, and their share in
the debt service would increase to about 16 percent.
27.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), BDET (a
Tunisian development finance company), in Compagnie Financiere et
Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in tourism projects),
in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel development), in



- 9 -
Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminium fluoride from local
fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism development
project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $12.8 million, as of
March 31, 1981.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
General Development
28.      Tunisia's population is about 6.6 million (1980) of which 3.1 mil-
lion live in rural areas. About 17 percent of the population lives at or
below the absolute poverty level ($200 per capita in 1980 prices), of which
about 45 percent live in rural areas. Of a total land area in Tunisia of
16.4 million hectares, land suitable for agriculture and grazing actually
used totals 8.6 million ha. Of this, the cultivable area covers 5.2 mil-
lion ha, forests and esparto grass 1.2 million ha, and 2.2 million ha are
used for grazing. About 150,000 ha are irrigated. In 1978/79, 34 percent
of the cultivable area was planted in cereals, 33 percent under fruit
trees, 12 percent under forage, pulses, industrial crops, and vegetables,
and 21 percent was left fallow.
29.      While still playing an important role in Tunisia's economy, agri-
culture's relative share is declining (24 percent of GDP in 1972 to 15 per-
cent in 1980) mainly due to a more rapid expansion of mining, petroleum,
and industrial production (para. 8). Agriculture now provides 35 percent
of total employment, against 50 percent in 1972. About 30 percent of
available agricultural labor time is unemployed. Agriculture's share in
total investment (private and public) has remained constant at about 14
percent during the 1970s.
30.      A primary objective of the Fifth Plan (1977-81) was to achieve
self-sufficiency in food (defined as a balanced commodity trade in agricul-
tural products) by 1981, which implied an average annual increase of
6.5 percent in production at constant prices. The Fifth Plan emphasized
investment in irrigation, livestock, and farm machinery, with less in
forestry and soil conservation, fruit trees, fishing, research and
extension. The Fifth Plan's ambitious growth target was not achieved.
However, agricultural value added grew at 3.6 percent per year in real
terms during the 1970s, compared to 1 percent per year during the 1960s.
While favorable weather played a part, other factors such as increased use
of modern inputs, irrigation development, development of credit facilities
serving an increasing number of farmers, favorable agricultural prices, and
growth of public sector agricultural investment (40 percent in real terms
during the 1970s above the 1960s) played a major role.
31.      The overall objective in the agricultural sector of the bixth Plan
(1982-86) under preparation (para. 12) will continue to be the achievement
of self-sufficiency in major foodstuffs. The projected expansion of field
crops will concern mainly durum wheat, pulses and sugar beet. This would



- 10 -
require increasing use of new technology, principally high yielding varie-
ties, fertilizers and chemical weed control. Investments in irrigation
infrastructure, tractors and harvesting equipment would be prominent. The
livestock subsector would be expanded primarily by improving the genetic
quality of cattle by the introduction of high yielding cows from Europe.
Increased animal feed and adequate price incentives are foreseen. Tree
crops would be expanded and diversified. The areas planted under vege-
tables would expand. Tree crop and vegetable expansion would depend
substantially on the further development of the irrigated perimeters.
Increased Government investment would also go to soil and water conserva-
tion, agricultural research, and farm input supply facilities.
Agriculture Sector Issues Relevant to
Dryland Farming in the Northwest Region
32.      Land tenure issues include skewed distribution of private land
(about 70 percent of the farms have less than 10 ha and cover about 20
percent of the program area as defined in para. 42); fragmentation of
individual farms; lack of land titles establishing land ownership; lack of
security of land tenure for tenant farmers (reducing their incentive to
invest in farm assets and to conserve the soil); a high incidence of
absentee land ownership; and the tendency for collectively-owned land to be
poorly managed and over-exploited causing erosion, soil degradation and low
productivity. Government has taken measures to correct these problems in
irrigated areas by imposing a maximum and minimum farm size, undertaking
land consolidation, and issuing land titles. On non-irrigated land,
Government has not systematically attacked these problems.
33.      Agricultural services are organized at the Provincial (Governorate)
level in Regional Agricultural Development Commissions (Commissariats
Regionaux au Developpement Agricole - CRDAs). CRDAs provide agricultural
extension to farmers, undertake forest management and planting, assist the
National Bank of Tunisia (BNT) to appraise loan applications, collect
statistics, and coordinate the work of the various public organizations and
project authorities in agriculture at the governorate level. In practice,
CRDAs have neither had a major role in coordination, nor been able to
execute complex development projects. The Government's response has been
mainly to create Development Agencies ("Offices") responsible for irriga-
tion projects (at the regional level) and rural development projects such
as the Central Tunisia Rural Development project already underway and the
proposed Northwest project. Offices offer several advantages: (i) they
can coordinate agricultural and other services in areas overlapping several
governorates; (ii) they are semi-autonomous financially and can invest and
operate like commercial enterprises; (iii) they can escape cumbersome
administrative regulations and act in all relevant domains (marketing,
credit, investment, letting contracts, undertaking road works, constructing
schools); (iv) they are accountable since they maintain separate accounts,
have performance targets, and are audited; and (v) they can provide better
incentives to staff, and for this reason tend to recruit higher quality
staff. Their experience in Tunisia has been positive.



- Il -
34.      The major problem of agricultural research is its lack of respon-
siveness to current agricultural problems faced by farmers. In response,
Government has provided increasingly fewer resources to research. A new
system for specifying research needs, insuring that appropriate research is
undertaken, and obtaining feedback from farmers is needed. Agricultural
extension is also inadequate because extension agents must spend too much
of their time assisting farmers with credit applications, collecting
statistics, and doing administrative work. In addition, extension agents
are often poorly trained and devote little time to small and medium sized
farms.
35.      Agricultural credit is provided primarily by BNT.  Major credit
issues include: low loan recovery; lack of agricultural staff at BNT; lack
of land titles for most farms, preventing them from obtaining long-term
credit since BNT requires a land title as a guarantee before establishing a
land mortgage; centralization of loan decisions resulting in an excessively
long approval process; lending norms determining loan amounts often not
adequately reflecting either the costs of investments and inputs or the
ability of farmers to contribute equity; interest rates lower than infla-
tion, requiring BNT to ration credit; and the small number of farmers
receiving credit (about 10 percent of farms, mostly large farmers). BNT
eligibility requirements include a minimum farm size which excludes the
majority of Tunisian farmers. However BNT provides short-ternm credit to
farms smaller than minimum if they are members of a Mutual Guarantee
Society. The Bank-financed Third Agricultural Credit project (Ln. 1885-TUN
of August 6, 1980), selected priority problems to address; the project
requires BNT to increase agricultural staff, establish a staff training
program, and decentralize some subloan appraisal and approvals to branch
offices. The project also requires that BNT undertake annual reviews of
the adequacy of its agricultural interest rates compared to price inflation
and make adequate proposals for their modification if necessary.
36.      Consumer prices of some basic food commodities such as bread,
olive oil, sugar, milk and beef are fixed by Government generally at a
relatively low level reflecting its concern with the stability of the urban
cost of living. The use of agricultural inputs, irrigation water and
credit is encouraged either through low prices supported by Government pay-
ments to suppliers or by subsidies paid on the purchase. Maintenance of
farmgate prices at low levels for some commodities (oil seeds, export
crops) depresses their production. The main results of these price
policies are an income reduction for producers of most export crops;
excessive demand for subsidized inputs by farmers able to obtain subsidies,
compared to the economic optimum (fertilizer and other agricultural
chemicals, imported animal feed); and income transfers to large farmers who
tend to benefit most from subsidies, whereas it is the small farmers who
need to be induced to use modern inputs. Future policies should seek to
progressively remove input subsidies, compensated for by the removal of
export taxes and the maintenance of agricultural prices at world levels, or
higher where justified (such as for milk). Discussions with Government on
these issues will continue to be pursued through the Bank's economic and



- 12 -
agricultural sector work. Some progress has been registered recently with
respect to milk, meat, and cereals prices which have been partially
decontrolled or increased to world levels.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
37.      Bank Group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967 and
to date, nine projects have been approved for a total of $168.9 million of
Bank/IDA funds. They include three irrigation projects (Irrigation
Rehabilitation in the Lower Medjerda Valley and Nebhana - Loan 1068, the
sidi balem Multipurpose project - Loan 1431, and the Southern Irrigation
project - Loan 1796), two fisheries projects (Credit 270 and Loan 1746), a
Cooperative Farm project (Loan 484/Credit 99) and three Agricultural Credit
projects (Loan 779/Credit 263, Loan 1340 and Loan 1885). The Bank also
supports infrastructure and on-farm investments through a Rural Roads
project (Loan 1601) aiming at improving rural roads and agriculture in the
zones of influence of these roads.
38.      Performance of these projects has been mixed, reflecting the
institutional constraints in the sector. Implementation of the irrigation
projects has been the most satisfactory. On the other hand, the First
Fisheries project was completed at the end of 1979 with considerable delay
and the local institution lending for boats (BNT) experienced low loan
recoveries. The problems were addressed under the becond Fisheries project
which became effective in May 1980, after agreement was reached on a
strategy for improving recoveries. The Rural Roads project is progressing
on schedule. Agricultural services are to be provided beginning this year
(1981) in the zones of influence of the roads. Particular attention will
be given to the impact of the agricultural techniques which are extended
and the effectiveness of the agricultural credit system established under
the project, since these are its most difficult aspects.
39.      Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) have been issued for the
First Agricultural Credit project and the Cooperative Farm project (No. 968
of January 1976 and No. 2497 of May 1979, respectively). The latter proj-
ect provided $18 million for the development of agricultural production
cooperatives. The project was part of a ten-year national program to
implement agrarian reform and to consolidate cooperative farming. A major
change in Tunisia's land reform policy occurred in 1969. The project was
substantially revised in 1970, and an amount of $8.8 million was can-
celled. The project was completed by the end of 1973. The PPAR confirms
that most of the project objectives, namely, improved productivity, produc-
tion, worker incomes, and institutional viability, were attained. Two
other objectives, namely, elimination of subsistence farming and incorpora-
tion of private land-owners into production cooperatives, had to be
abandoned. The First Agricultural Credit project provided $8 million to
finance lending by BNT for farm investments in machinery, dairy develop-
ment, date palm plantations, and an agro-industrial component for dairy
products. The loan/credit was fully disbursed by July 1978, 34 months
after the original closing date. The major issue was that Bank funds lent
by BNT had a higher interest rate than Government funds also channelled



- 13 -
through BNT. This caused farmers to prefer Government funds, reduced the
demand for loans financed from Bank funds, and caused disbursements of the
Bank loan to be slower than expected.
40.      Lessons from the above projects have been considered in the design
of subsequent projects. In particular, the second and Third Agricultural
Credit projects and the proposed project have instituted a uniformity of
lending terms for credit regardless of the financing source. In the
Northwest project, farm mechanization has been minimized, with emphasis
placed on equipment with draft animals; only a small agro-industrial
component has been included (milk collection centers) based on careful
cost evaluation; and emphasis would be given to farmer participation in
project execution. In addition, successful institutional arrangements made
for the Offices (para. 33) have been replicated for the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.      The Government has requested Bank assistance in financing a 5-year
time slice of a 15-year development program for part of Tunisia's Northwest
region. The program was identified during Bank missions in June and
October 1978. It was prepared by a public Tunisian consulting firm (the
National Center for Agricultural Studies - CNEA), together with the
Forestry Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, and with the assistance
of the FAO/CP and Bank missions. The program was appraised in àeptember/
October 1980 and negotiations were held in Washington in April 1981. The
Tunisian delegation was led by Mr. H. Ben Cherif, Cabinet Director of
Minister of Planning and Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3316a-
TUN, dated April 30, 1981) is being distributed separately to the Board;
the main features of the project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex III. A map showing the location of areas covered by
the program actions is also attached. In this report, the "program" refers
to the entire 15-year development program, and the "project" to the 5-year
time slice recommended for financing as a first phase of the program.
Characteristics of the Program Area
42.      Program actions would be undertaken within an area of about
311,000 ha of the Northwest region of Tunisia. The program area consists
of three sub-zones broadly representative of the region, namely Kroumirie-
Mogods, Oued Zarga/Oued Khil, and Oued Tessa (see map). All three sub-
zones are characterized by mountainous terrain, relatively high rainfall
(400-1,500 mm on average), a poor population dependent on small fragmented
holdings, and land more suitable for forests and pastures than for the now
prevailing cereal production. Of the 162,000 people living in the program
area, about 140,000 are supported by agriculture although agricultural work



- 14 -
occupies only 60 percent of the available work time of the area's agricul-
tural labor. Due to a significant migration from the Northwest to urban
areas and abroad, the population growth in the region is about 1.5 percent
per year compared to 2.5 percent for Tunisia as a whole. About 40 percent
of the area's rural families have incomes at or below the absolute poverty
level compared to 17 percent for Tunisia as a whole.
43.      The major constraints to improved well-being of the population in
the program area, in addition to those discussed in paras. 32-36, are soil
erosion and deforestation. These are caused mainly by overgrazing of
natural pastures and forests, causing destruction of the natural vegetative
cover and preventing the natural regeneration of forests; the ploughing of
hillsides from top to bottom rather than in contours; the cultivation of
steep slopes; the predominance of a cereal/fallow rotation which leaves
soil bare and susceptible to erosion; and over-utilization of the forest by
the local population for firewood and charcoal. Destruction of forests has
been so rapid that in some areas dried animal manure is substituted for
fuelwood. Since manure is the major source of fertilizer for village vege-
table gardening, vegetable yields are declining. In the program area, the
Sidi Salem dam now under construction with Bank assistance will store about
500 million m3 of water from the Medjerda River. It is estimated that 2.3
million m3 of sediment is transported each year from the program area into
the Medjerda, and the situation will deteriorate unless action is taken.
44.      Agricultural yields in the program area are also low as the result
of such factors as the limited use of appropriate seed varieties, fer-
tilizer, plant protection, and farm implements. Livestock development is
constrained by scarcity of water, low yielding local livestock breeds,
inadequate livestock shelters and health facilities, and an absence of milk
marketing outlets.  Other constraints include: (i) an inadequate secondary
road system, preventing efficient execution of extension and marketing
activities and hindering delivery of inputs to farmers; (ii) inadequate
water supply both for the population and for development of livestock; and
(iii) insufficient education facilities.
Government Actions in the Northwest Region
45.      In 1973 Government started a technical assistance project with
German aid (the Sedjenane Range Management project), to determine a
development approach for the region. It is the experience of this pilot
project, along with the soil conservation and forestry works undertaken in
a soil conservation project (the Beja soil Conservation project) with FAO
assistance, on which the concept of the development program for the
Northwest is based. The Sedjenane project has obtained substantial farmer
collaboration. Farmers outside the project area are pressing for its
extension to their areas. The major innovations of the project, include:
(i) installation and maintenance of permanent pastures on relatively
unproductive land subject to erosion to increase feed available for
livestock while conserving the soil; (ii) introduction of forage crops to
supplement pasture and to increase vegetative cover of soils as a soil
conservation technique; (iii) introduction of an animal health program,



- 15 -
improved livestock shelters, genetically superior livestock, increased
water supply, and organized milk collection; (iv) introduction of more
intensive agricultural techniques and modern farm inputs; (v) provision of
agricultural credit; (vi) assistance to farmers to undertake land consoli-
dation; (vii) installation of farm access roads and domestic water supply;
and (viii) organization of the population to implement collective actions.
The estimated economic rate of return for the project is 10 percent. The
Beja project, managed by the Forestry Department, is located in the Oued
Zarga region where problems of soil erosion are much more acute (as in Oued
Tessa) than in Kroumirie-Mogods because of the cultivation of more marginal
land. The project strategy is to introduce soil conservation works on
cultivated land subject to erosion, and improve cultivation techniques
consistent with soil conservation. This strategy has been successful in
reducing erosion in the areas treated and in expanding production of
forestry products.
Program Objectives and Strategy
46.      The program would develop about 162,000 ha of land within the
program area subject to severe soil erosion and deforestation. The overall
objectives of the program are to: (i) increase the income and improve the
nutrition, health and education of the region's population; (ii) reduce
soil erosion, arrest the decline in agricultural productivity, and reduce
the rate of sedimentation of the Sidi Salem reservoir (para. 43); (iii)
create employment opportunities; and (iv) develop local energy resources
through production of fuelwood. To achieve these objectives, development
actions would be concentrated on homogeneous micro-zones (2,000 ha on
average) by providing them with a detailed development plan linked to the
development strategy of the entire program area. Each micro-zone plan, to
be established and implemented with the participation of the micro-zone
population, would comprise an integrated package of investment in soil
conservation, agricultural and livestock development, forestry production,
and infrastructure. Investments serving several micro-zones (inter-zone
roads) and other support services (agricultural research, extension and
credit) would also be included in program actions. A development authority
would be established to undertake the planning tasks, coordinate program
activities, and implement the micro-zone plans.
Project Description
47.      The proposed project would emphasize the development of organiza-
tion and management systems necessary to complete the full program includ-
ing credit, extension, livestock services, milk marketing, and agricultural
research, and of much of the infrastructure necessary to start the pro-
gram. Specific agricultural and soil conservation measures would be
started on about 54,000 ha of land while subsequent time slices would focus
more on productive agricultural and fuelwood investments. A five-year time
slice is considered appropriate to permit a full assessment of initial
benefits, costs, and strategy, thus facilitating redesign, if necessary,
for subsequent years.



- 16 -
48.      Project components would include the following:
(a) soil conservation works including contour banks, contour guide-
lines, gully control works, permanent pasture installation and
improvement, and reforestation. The project would undertake such
works on approximately 28,000 ha (about 121,000 ha during the
15-year program). Equipment necessary to undertake these works
(bulldozers, tractors and trucks) would be acquired;
(b)  a farm extension program based in part on a training and visit
system to be implemented through 20 intervention centers covering
about 4,000 ha each (40 would be established during the program).
Training would be provided to some extension staff. Vehicles for
extension and headquarters staff would be acquired;
(c) production oriented research in support of the extension program
to be undertaken in the program area by the National Agricultural
Research Institute of Tunisia (INRAT);
(d)  provision of short-, medium-, and long-term credit to farmers for
inputs, farm equipment, equipment for small enterprises, live-
stock, draft animals, fruit trees and stables;
(e)  livestock development through the introduction of cross-bred
livestock; a natural breeding program, improved animal sanitation
and health provided from the intervention centers; expanded forage
production from forage crops introduced into cropping systems and
from permanent pastures; installation of 10 milk collection
centers (20 under the program) and purchase of trucks specialized
in bulk milk transport;
(f)  infrastructure, including the improvement of 450 km of farm access
roads (about 1600 km during the program), 320 km of inter-village
roads, and the maintenance of rural roads; construction of 3
headquarters office buildings, 10 primary schools (12 during the
program); and 15 water supply points for human and animal use
(40 during the program);
(g) about 35.3 man-years of technical assistance to pursue the experi-
ence started in the region by foreign technical assistance teams
(para. 45), to introduce Tunisian staff to project concepts, and
provide training and assistance in implementing institutional
reforms (credit, extension, input supply, and livestock services);
and
(h)  studies including:  (i) the preparation of a regional development
plan for the entire Northwest region; (ii) the preparation of a
rural development program in Central Tunisia; and (iii) the
establishment of an agricultural sector-wide monitoring and
evaluation system.



- 17 -
Project Implementation
49.      Planning in each micro-zone would require about one year and exe-
cution about 5 years. Development of the first three micro-zones would
begin in the third quarter of 1981. At the end of the proposed project (by
September 1986), actions would be underway in about 27 micro-zones.
Successful implementation of the micro-zone plans would depenc on the
timely implementation of key components: operation of the project
authority, technical assistance program, land tenure, organization ot the
population, credit, extension, and monitoring, as discussed below.
50.      The Development Authority.  Overall responsibility for project
implementation would be vested in a Development Authority (Office) with
subdirectorates in the three sub-zones (para. 42). The Office would have
the financial autonomy, appropriate resources, functions and responsibili-
ties needed to execute the project, under the supervision of the Ministry
of Agriculture. The Office would be responsible for: (i) micro-zone
planning; (ii) supervising construction undertaken on contract; (iii)
purchasing and operating equipment for use by the Office; (iv) executing
some project works on force account; (v) acquiring inputs, equipment and
livestock to be distributed to farmers on credit and supervising credit
transactions, assisted by BNT; (vi) managing the project's extension ser-
vice and milk collection centers; (vii) maintaining forests, pastures, soil
conservation works, equipment and buildings; (viii) recovering operation
and maintenance costs; (ix) monitoring and evaluating project activities;
and (x) managing foreign technical assistance. After project completion,
the Office would maintain responsibility for implementing the entire
program.
51.      The Office has been created with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank; a special condition of effectiveness is that the
legal opinion to be provided by the Government specifies that the Office
has been established and duly empowered to carry out the project in accord-
ance with the provisions set forth in the Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement,
section 6.01). A General Manager well known to the Bank and his principal
deputies and professional staff have been selected. The Government would
implement the 15-year program in line with the objectives and investments
begun under the project (Loan Agreement, bection 4.07). The Ministry of
Education would operate and maintain the schools constructed under the
project (Loan Agreement, bection 3.07). The Government, through the
Ministry of Planning and Finance would implement the studies listed in
para. 48(h), to be submitted to the Bank for comment not later than January
1, 1984 (Loan Agreement, bection 4.08).
52.      Technical Assistance.  During project execution, German technical
assistance would be provided in the Kroumirie-Mogods sub-zone (15 man-
years). The Bank would finance about 18 man-years of consulting assistance
for the watershed area (Oued Zarga/Oued Khil and Oued Tessa), and for the
establishment of accounting, financial and procurement systems in the
Office. Up to about 24 man-months of technical assistance obtained prior



- 18 -
to loan signature to complete the preparation of, and start-up activities
in, the first three micro-zones (para. 49) is recommended for retroactive
financing under the Bank loan (para. 60). Government would employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employ-
ment would be satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
53.      Land Tenure.  Office staff would assist in the following activi-
ties: informal land exchange between farmers to reduce farm fragmentation
and facilitate contour farming; issuance of certificates of land possession
to establish ownership; purchase of land from absentee owners unwilling to
cooperate with the project, and its resale or rental to participants; and,
where possible, lease to small farmers and landless laborers of both
grazing rights on state-owned land to be put under permanent pasture, and
arable state land. If a large proportion of the landowners of a microzone
refuses to collaborate with the Office, program activities would be
re-directed to another area. If less than 10 percent of the landowners of
an area destined to pasture refuse to participate (e.g. to convert
presently cultivated, but severely eroded land, into pasture land) or to
rent their land to other farmers, and their participation is vital to the
success of the project, there may be reason to obligate them to sell their
land to other participating farmers or to the Office. One of the means,
under Tunisian law, of achieving this would be to declare, by ministerial
decree, the works concerned to be of "public interest". Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government, whenever necessary, would
take all appropriate actions, including the issuing of such decrees, in
order that the required zones within the project area be readily available
for these works, and would continue to be available for the purposes of the
project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
54.      Organization of the Population.  Following the successful expe-
rience of the Sedjenane project (para. 45), it is expected that the popula-
tion within each micro-zone would organize itself in order to negotiate
more effectively with Office staff during preparation and execution of
its micro-zone plan, to manage certain program works (particularly the
permanent pastures), and to provide feedback to the extension system. This
participation would be facilitated by arrangements between the Office and
the population of each micro-zone specifying the rights and obligations of
each: the Office would provide services, infrastructure and compensation
to families suffering short-term losses as a result of works undertaken on
or adjacent to their land; in return the participation of the population in
program actions would be expected. Government would provide the above-
mentioned compensation under arrangements established in consultation with
the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
55.      Credit.  The Office would manage the credit component, with assis-
tance from BNT. A project credit account would be established by Govern-
ment with BNT (para. 60). Appraisal of subloans would be undertaken by
Office credit agents assisted by extension agents working in the interven-
tion centers. Subloans would require the approval of credit staff in the
Office's headquarters. The Office would procure inputs and investment goods



- lç -
corresponding to credit committed, and BNT would make payment by drawing
down the project credit account. bubloans would be recovered by Office
credit agents, assisted by BNT, and deposited in BNT branch offices. Funds
recovered and redeposited in the project account with BNT would be onlent
in the same manner (revolving fund). Credit agents would be trained by BNT
as part of the training program to be established under the Third Agricul-
tural Credit project (para. 35), and the higher level credit staff would
receive on-the-job training by foreign technical experts. Normal BNT lend-
ing terms and conditions which are also applied in Bank-assisted projects,
would be used (para. 35), except that: (i) 100 percent of input costs
other than labor would be financed by short-term credit, and (ii) BNT
eligibility requirements that a subborrower have a minimum farm size and
that the subborrower belong to a Mutual Guarantee bociety, would not
apply. Current lending rates for credit are; 6 percent interest for small
and medium farmers who have a net annual farm income of up to about $2,000
(1980 prices) and on all short-term credit, and 7 percent on medium- and
long-term credit for commercial farmers.  Government would finance the
difference between the BNT on-lending rates and the Bank lending rate.
Credit is repayable over 5 to 15 years with up to 8 years grace depending
on the type of investment.  In addition, small and medium farmers receive a
subsidy averaging 15 percent of investment cost. The Office and BNT would
jointly conclude a contract with each subborrower specifying his or her
respective obligations, and permitting repossession of farm assets by
Government in cases of default. BNT would be paid a commission for
services provided to the project, to be determined in the agreement between
Government and BNT referred to in para. 56.
56.      The Government would enter into arrangements with the Office and
BNT satisfactory to the Bank establishing not later than January 1, 1982,
the above credit system (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(ii)). It would be
a condition of disbursement of funds for the credit component that these
arrangements be entered into (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b)).
In addition, Government would require BNT to develop its credit operations
in the project area in order to satisfy credit demand other than that
generated by the project (Loan Agreement, Section 4.09).
57.      Extension and Research.  The Office would establish a system link-
ing extension, research and production. Extension effort in the establish-
ment period of each micro-zone would be intense (one agent to 200 farmers),
decreasing to one agent per 400 farmers after the establishment period is
completed. Supervision of extension agents and in-service training would
be provided by subject matter specialists. Agricultural research would be
mainly production oriented and would be undertaken by INRAT. An arrange-
ment satisfactory to the Bank would be concluded between the Office and
INRAT not later than June 30, 1982, specifying the obligations of each
under the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09).
58.      Monitoring, Evaluation and Audit.  A monitoring and evaluation
unit would be established by the Office not later than December 31, 1982



- 20 -
(Loan Agreement, bection 3.04(c)). The Office and BNT would maintain
separate accounts for the project. These accounts, as well as certificates
of expenditures, would be audited annually by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank, according to guidelines agreed to by the Bank. Audited
accounts and audit reports would be forwarded to the Bank no later than 6
months after the end of each fiscal year; Bank missions would have access
to the documents prepared by the auditor during the year (Loan Agreement,
Sections 4.02 and 4.03).
Project Cost and Financing
59.      The total cost of the project would be $61.5 million (with con-
tingencies), including $9.2 million of taxes and duties, of which $25.7
million in foreign exchange. Price contingencies equal about 27 percent of
base cost, estimated assuming international and domestic inflation at 9
percent per year in 1981, 8.5 percent in 1982, 7.5 percent in 1983, and 6
percent thereafter. The cost of the 15-year program is estimated at about
$232 million, without price contingencies. Costs are detailed in the Loan
and Project Summary.
60.      The proposed Bank loan of $24.0 million would finance about 93
percent of the foreign exchange component of the project. German technical
assistance would finance the remaining foreign exchange cost. The Office
would be responsible for disbursing all Government budgetary funds, includ-
ing the Bank loan and funds obtained from recovery charges, except for the
funds required to finance the studies under the project which would be
managed by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (para. 51). The German
Government would manage the funds required for its technical assistance,
and farmers would manage their equity investments. As to the agricultural
credit component, Government would deposit a total of 42.6 million equiv-
alent, in yearly payments based on the estimated credit demand, in an
account with BNT. $2.2 million of this would be provided by the Bank,
after disbursement by BNT from this account (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)(ii) and Schedule 5). The Bank would provide $2.4 million (includ-
ing contingencies) for technical assistance, at an average cost of $8,340
per man-month (fees and per diem). A maximum of $400,000 in retroactive
financing to be provided from the Bank loan for expenditures on consul-
tants, construction works and equipment purchases between March 31, 1981
and loan signature is recommended (schedule 1, para. 4(a)). The Government
would be the borrower of the Bank loan and bear the foreign exchange risk.
A 20-year maturity (including four years of grace), which is above the
country norm of 17 years, is proposed because of the long period over which
Government would recover costs from user charges and sales of forestry
products.
61.      It is expected that about 40 percent of total program costs,
equivalent to 74 percent of operation and maintenance costs, would be
recovered through user charges, credit repayment by farmers, sales of
forestry products, and price margins on marketed output and inputs. The
Government would apply (a) user charges for pastures, village woodlots, and



- 21 -
farm equipment services established by the Office sufficient to cover at
least operation and maintenance costs and a proportion of investment costs
determined by the farmers' ability to pay, and (b) price margins on output
marketed and inputs distributed by the Office sufficient to permit the
Office to cover operating costs of its marketing and input supply activity,
excluding special subsidies to beneficiaries. These user charges and price
margins would be reviewed annually starting June 1, 1982 in consultation
with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). These recovery charges are
somewhat higher than those levied elsewhere in Tunisia, and are therefore
considered the maximum feasible given the poverty of the Northwest region.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.      The Office would be responsible for procurement under the project
for contracts of up to $500,000 above which approval of the Central Govern-
ment Procurement Committee would be required. Equipment (farm equipment,
road building equipment, trucks, automobiles, motorcycles, equipment for
milk centers), totalling approximately $12.2 million including price con-
tingencies would be purchased under international competitive bidding (ICB)
according to Bank guidelines for contracts with a value each of $100,000 or
above. Contracts for equipment and vehicles of less than $100,000 each
would be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank, or on the basis of inter-
national or local shopping after having obtained quotations from at least
three suppliers, subject to a maximum of $2 million in total. Since civil
works contracts would be small and scattered over the program area (con-
struction of office buildings, repair shops, intervention centers and
schools), they would be awarded under LCB. The total value of such
contracts is estimated at $7.2 million. Particularly small construction
works, with a value of less than $100,000 each, in which construction
companies are not expected to be interested, may be undertaken on force
account subject to a maximum of $2 million. Other small contracts, total-
ling $3.9 million, would (a) be directly negotiated with suitable small-
scale contractors using Government procedures acceptable to the Bank
(wells, certain road improvements); or (b) involve direct purchase from
distributors (farm inputs), or be procured under national or international
shopping (livestock, pumps, small equipment), both after having obtained
quotations from at least three suppliers. Some project works (afforesta-
tion, creation of woodlots, pasture improvement and installation, contour
works, water points, some road building), with a maximum value of $10 mil-
lion, would be undertaken by the Office on force account, except when local
entrepreneurs are able to undertake these works, in which case negotiated
contract or LCB procedures would apply. Operation and maintenance would be
managed by the Office on the basis of negotiated contracts, or undertaken
directly on force account. Tender documents or contracts of any kind sub-
mitted to ICB, or exceeding $500,000 would require prior approval of the
Bank, as would final award of contracts.
63.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of six
years through June 1987 as follows: (i) 45 percent of total cost of con-
struction works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 65 percent of



- 22 -
local expenditures for vehicles, equipment and livestock; (iii) 60 percent
of total cost of soil conservation, forest, and pasture works; (iv) 85 per-
cent of the total cost of credit, studies and agricultural research; and
(v) 100 percent of total consultant costs excluding that paid for by German
Technical Assistance. Disbursements would be made against full documenca-
tion, except for civil works under force account and credit. Where docu-
ments are not submitted, disbursements would be made against certified
statements of expenditures; the documentation would be retained by the
Office and BNT for inspection by the Bank during the course of supervision
missions.
Benefits and Risks
64.      The proposed project would constitute a major step towards execu-
tion of the development program in the Northwest region and the establish-
ment of an improved structure of Government services to poor regions in
general. Project benefits would be the establishment of institutions which
would implement the program, including the Office, and the extension,
research, credit, and livestock development services, as well as the
start-up of specific agricultural, soil conservation and forestry
activities, together with productive infrastructure works. Program bene-
fits would result from reduced soil erosion, more productive agricultural
activity including better farming practices, use of modern farm inputs, and
more efficient management of pastures and forests. The main benefits
of the program would include expanded milk and meat output (from about
4,000 liters of milk and 2,100 tons of meat per year to about 72,000 liters
of milk and 9,300 tons of meat at full program development). Forestry
production including fuelwood would reach a value of $6 million per year at
full development (operation and maintenance costs deducted). Benefits
would also include the expanded production of vegetables, pulses and indus-
trial crops, substituting for cereal production. These production
increases would substitute for imports, and would result in foreign
exchange savings of about $24 million per year in 1980 prices at full
development. This saving would amount to 7.6 percent of food imports in
1978 (valued in 1980 prices).
65.      An important benefit of the program, in addition to incremental
production, is its impact in reducing poverty in Northwest Tunisia. The
program would directly benefit some 20,400 farm families (about 143,000
people) by raising their income and consumption levels to a more satis-
factory level, at an economic cost of $1,120 per family in 1980 prices.  It
is expected that the income of a family with 5 ha of land in the program
area would increase from a present level of $350-450 per year to an average
of $1,300 per year at full program development, and for a farm of about
25 ha, from an average of $1,500 to $5,200 per year. The program would
permit about 70 percent of the unemployed labor days in the program area to
be employed (about 3.8 million additional work days per year), primarily on
family farms, but partly in maintenance of program works. In addition, it
is estimated that a total of 3.5 million man-days of employment would be
created by program works during the 15-year period (soil conservation,
forestry, pasture improvement and installation). Total cost in economic



- 23 -
prices per man-year of employment created during the program period
(115,000 man-years) is estimated at $925. Nearly one-fifth of total
program income benefits would accrue to the landless.
66.      The economic rate of return to the 15-year program is expected to
be 16 percent. The two main risks are lower than anticipated participation
of the population and problems related to milk marketing. Farmers
responded favorably to project design recommendations during the prepara-
tion and appraisal of the program; they participated in preparation of the
three micro-zone plans and are negotiating with the Ministry of Agriculture
planning teams the content of these plans. A continuing positive farmer
response also requires that incremental production from the program area
will have a market. This would be the case with the possible exception of
milk. The Government has fixed the retail price of fresh milk at the same
level as milk reconstituted from imported milk powder, while setting the
domestic producer price of fresh milk above the world price for non-fat dry
milk. As a result, milk processors purchase the minimum amount of domestic
fresh milk and the maximum amount of imported milk powder that Governnment
will permit. Under the proposed project, the Government would introduce a
dual price system permitting the retail price for fresh milk to reflect its
quality premium attached by the market over reconstituted milk (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.06). This would encourage processors to purchase
locally produced milk.
67.      Other risks would not be substantially different from those
inherent in all rural development programs such as reduced manpower or
financial resources allocated to the program, decision by Government to
stop the program at completion of the 5-year time slice, and unforeseeable
difficulties in implementing institutional reforms such as credit, input
supply, marketing, extension, and price policy. Sensitivity analysis
suggests that on the basis of alternative assumptions on these risks, the
economic rate of return could be between 7 and 20 percent. The economic
rate of return of 7 percent would result if the project were completed, but
not followed up by the remainder of the program. The monitoring and
evaluation system could provide for observation of benefits so as to permit
reduction in cost and/or change in methodology if benefits are not being
generated as foreseen in order to maintain the rate of return of the pro-
gram above 10 percent. In view of the high priority attached by Government
to developing the Northwest, Government's commitment is high and the
program can be expected to be implemented as foreseen.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, bection
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The draft Loan Agreement conforms generally to the
normal pattern for rural development projects. In addition to the special



- 24 -
features of the draft Loan Agreement which are referred to in the appro-
priate paragraphs of the Report and in Section III of Annex III, a special
condition of effectiveness is that the legal opinion to be provided by the
Government specifies that the Office has been established and duly
empowered to carry out the project in accordance with the provisions set
forth in the Loan Agreement (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). Further-
more, the credit component funds shall not be disbursed until a credit
scheme, satisfactory to the Bank, has been established (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b)).
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert b. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 30, 1981
Washington, D. C.



- 25-                                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERCES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ . XMj.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            164.0                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
ACRICULTURAL      76.6                                 MOST RECENT          NORT11 AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIRBEAN
ONP PER CAPITA (111)                     ..       360.0    1120.0                818.5                   156Z.9
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     190.0       261.0      543.0                545.0                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      4.2          5.1       6.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0         43.5      50.1                 45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACNED                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       26.0        31.0       37.0                 40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULTURAL LAND     55.0         67.0      78.0                598.6                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.3        46.2       42.6                 44.0                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        50.0       53.8                 52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. AND A80VE                   4.2         3.8        3.6                  3.5                      3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8 /c      1.9/c     2.0                  2.6                      2.7
URBAN                               ..          3.8       3.9                  4.5                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0          42.0      32.0                 41.6                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TROUSAND)     21.0         15.0      12.0                 13.7                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1          3.4       2.2                  2.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         29.2      73.5
UISERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          8.0      18.0                 16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOO PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.0         98.0     126.0                 93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   80.0         88.0     112.0                103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          50.0         57.0      73.0                 69.8                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       12.0         14.0      22.0                 17.5                     33.7
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      29.0        20.0      15.0                 17.5                      8.4
NEALTH
LIFE EXP ECTANCY AT B IRTH (YEARS)   48.0        54.0      57.0                 54.4                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                     148.0/d     135.0         ..                   ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        49.0      70.0                 62.5                     65.9
URMAN                               ..          ..         ..                 82.9                     80.4
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                 45.1                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         ..         ..                   ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..          ..       30.0                   ..                     79.4
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..                   ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10000.0       5950.0    4800.0               4688.7                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON          ..       730.0    1070.0               1751.5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            373.0/e      410.0     439.0                635.5                    480.3
UC8AN                               ..        280.0
RURAL                                ..      930.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        24.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         5.1 /f    6.0
URBAN                               ..          5.1 7f    5.8
RURAL                                ..         5.1 7T    6.1
AVEhAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         3.2 if
URMAN                               ..          2.7 7      ..
RURAL                                ..         3.6 7      ..
ACCRSS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                               ..         24.0 /f
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                                ..         ..



- 26-                                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TlNISIA - SOCIAL SI2DCATORS DATA SEIT
1NIIIS1A                         RETFERNCE CROUPS (IEIT!D AVE£AaS
-OST RECINT ESTI MTE      _
M1IDLE LNCOj4
NiOST RECDNT         iNOkTi AFRICA &           1I1DDLE INCOME
1960  /b    L970 /b ESTIATE /b           MIDDLE EAST         LATIN ANSIICA S CARISBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJST!D E£0 OLLENT RATIOS
FRlD T:      TOUL                  66.0        100.0      100.0                  76.4                     99.7
MILE                 8S.0         120.0     llJ.0                  92.2                     1OX.O0
FDIAIA                43.0         79.0      81.0                  59.9                      99.4
SECONDART:    OTAL                  12.0        23.0       22.0                  33.3                     34.4
M4AU                  19.0         33.0      28.0                  .1.9                      33.5
FESALZ                 3.0        13.0       15.0                  24.2                     34.7
VOCATIO1iAL WEOL. (I oF SECONDARY) 24.0           12.0       17.0                   9.8                     38.2
UPIL-tEACE5R RATIO
PRLMARY                            61.0         48.0       40.0                  39.2                     30.5
SECONDARY                           16.0        26.0       23.0                  25.1                     14.5
ADULS LXTItRACY RATE (PERCL'lT)       15.5        24.0/t    55.0                   39.7                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSEN-GER CARS  ER -HOUSAD
POPUL.IioN                          Li.0        13.0      `1J.3                  15.3                     43.0
RADIO RECZIVERS  ME  THOUSAND
POWULTION                          40.0         74.0      138.0                 139.6                    245.3
TV UCSVVES Mu TEOUSANO
RuFfLATZ0U                          0.1         10.0       35.0                  29.0                     84.2
fl«Wat        (C &MY GUIRAL
3!EREr) CsOaLA?m  ?EZ
rTl"D  P09116201                      19.0        16.0       33.0                  22.2                     63.3
C044 41L ATzAD              n m  CAPT    2.0        ..        2.3                   LS.
t.MM i         ct; (<Mu6           U37.9        1214.0    ULM. 5
VUMA  (PUCENE                       6.1          7.7        L0 906                                        22
àOICW1W  OMS         )             56.0         81.8      46.0                   67.0                     37.1
moemir (M         )                17.6         21.0       26.0                  23.1                     23.5
PAMrre7T          Uls (pcr
TOTAL                                 27.0        23.7       23.7                  26.1                     31.5
1<1                                   50.2        44.2       44.0                  47.4                     48.9
IDIAI                                  3.3         3.6        4.0                   4.7                     14.0
ECONNIC OEPEIVICT RATIO                  L.4         L.A        1.8                   I.9                      1.4
1MNcO DISTIIUTIONÎ
RczTt OF PSVAIT  INCOE
NWSRIVIED *r
RlGICHST S pEcEN  Of NCOSOLDS         .           ..       17.0
RicSa? ZO FENCE?£      air mU5tEOLS   ..          ..       42.0
LDSt 20  r      T Or anuOSEOLDS       .           .         6.0
tLT 40 9ERCEN  or ROOSEOl0Do                               L5.0 
POVEETY TARC!? GROUPS
rIMTtArEo ASSOLEu  PVERTy 1NCQ4L
r£VEI. (US ? ER CAPITA)
URAN                                  .4. Z01 0                                 Z62.5
RVUAL                                        .             97.0                 140.4                    l9083
ISITSAT!D RELATIVE POVCRn INCOR«
LIVEL (US$ °ER CAPITA)
A.AN                                                      193.0 '2.1                                    474.0
FUlAL                                                     L93. 0                L22.2                    332.5
ZSTIMATED FOPULATION SE3LW 4SOLU=
PoROUR tNCOIoe LZVEL (PERCVIT)
ULRAN                                 .                    20.0                 22.1
RURAL                                 .           ..       1.0                  33.1
Mot availabl.
3 Ooc app1±' ab14
IlOTES
'a   Tb. group averages for £0cn Loadcacgt Sr. pop aCLon-'.s c  £ 5.0    mus.  Coverage ai cogcrl.%
amon  the  lodLcarors dce'nds 3o ava±labilLty of data A"d il noe unifors.
ib   Unlasa ,ch.tvLaa 0oted, data -or .960 rager Co any year b.cw.n 1959 and 1961; for 1970, ba.oen L969
and 1971  and for Most lacent !sear., bew..   1974  nd 1978.
/c   Due co eIgracLoa  populiaton  rovctLh rate ii louet zhan  teof acuraa  tocPurauns; /d 1960-65 average;
/4 L92. If 1966.
Most ractet aeucîce of GNP per capiRa is fot 1.979, a1 oth r data axa as of April. 1980.
Cctobar, 1980



ANEX T
- 27-                                                                               Page 3 of 6
OEPINITION O0f S~OCIL INOCATORS
Roa:Althougf thr dota art doterI trot source   geerly jdge19d tht.oe              nhotte n  radiîtable.It ehold1  alto  ha oottd  th.r ahty tr ext ht   rrr
xettxalito.arahe he.u. ofaalt             df arodrdad I:d'fidoîtt.. . cr  octrapta u..d by d Iffrl              croielu co1.lla ttx   th. dota.  Tht d al   .,cr-
ihbtît... .at.u   ro1 decth   coeao              tc,indîctre trerda, aod  caatra   eta1in major  bltarote   tteaoo..r.                        a
Th,a reeaxagr-pe art (t(  h  am   cooogopc  tht aujotctcyo    ()acoor                                    -gop Ilth acthat highar a                ita -   tere.ta -ttcorr   -ooP
orttaijccoo                tty   ter ''Capttl turpîcra OiI Exorea' g p char   tddaOrnsMot  Attfr  et  ftt'ddlt tast" 1. chuter hbcus  cf etrxa
data axd ta oo .oifote, caotceut  h  ttrot    j  rtleIgitg ata                    cf ..e ledîtaror to soothar   Th.e..rta.   racu   tfol il om                         th. talII
LAMt  AJRIA lthouaao   aq.Oc.(                                                                    ouattrr?rtx-Oplto    Idtrdt  iyetlar.  x  pretitixi phy-
Tal-Tor)trac    racoptî la>aa1c4tlr -atee                                                      it-ax   qxaltled  I  to . a  adîtal achol et dxiraeu eit      al..
OAoico..tura1 - otet  c   giulota.a.attptol    r  eeFIty                                      Prlaitpr lritPeraon - Populatiox  dilided by etba   xtf potdhi,cia
for crp., porra   aIerI cd kîtchat gardrea co to île  fallc; 1917 d-a.                        cala ard fas1i  gradoat .c.uras.. pra-tcl   rret_.. -sud. aaietax  xr
tit 2f  CPOT  (OI)-GNP pe-  cap its extisetta  al  --ccet serka   price., cxl-              ura.adounldrda    ytar   mptit   t                            r itruira  b.d.
celai.  'Y ca   ccttoto   eathcd ta Wcold taAutute  t9-79 b..ita); j960t.ll. a                              itlhtO  poblic axd pritate   -.. trtl adea'aia   br ta          d 05
1970, ard  t979data.                                            bablitationcetttra.   floaptele  ora aarcbtlashrts paes              tly staff s
hy at irait ct phyctiax.. E tualb.  tt  prraidirg  prtxcipally  o-adi.l
tilfGî  CtgtStpîot Pot CAcITA -Iltcl   cooatc   cfcoaclleercree                                    tr -are ecr  xldd..irol botoitels. hceera, Oxotda bhalrb  -dndt
ard lioira.patrolue, ctucalgae ax> hydrc-, .roi tca>   rraua   lc                      ocier  ro  prIlaxtely etatted hy a Physiriar (btbasdîci   eeitat
toiciiyl    ko rSa- cf cc Il          lolroPet capita; 1960, 197f,..xd 197f8ce,edeE.ec jl eblh offerIx-atu   acttto                                                       protide a
date                                                                                             litstd  -ega  f sediol1 fe.clltiea.  Pcr erTheeto1 pxe'oat  -rba  Isapt-
POPULAIAONt AND V1TAL STATISTICS                                                                    rprlefclo  rote1 hatPitale.a  sadfIclad  -atcrity  ctae
Octal Prooatîce, fld-taer (atîltot ..   ha  ct Soif 1; 1962, u9iû, ard  »97î             Muatt   t    crtltd-crlruhrcIdiaoc   crdebre
data,fothaprl  dtctdad bn tht t,abt cf bade.
dIffeocotdortîc c.IIId    f cohat            - arc. lt afec   coparxbillty oO deta        ripotîlu
ssoogccxtrlet; 10, 197., ctd t9it dxta.                                              Aretaa. Slr  cf oc...ehold (pet...cr -t  .r...ushcldl - Itcta, ubat.x9            ool
Porulatton Projactîcca                                                     A~~~~~~~~~~~~b ..d  .  98  I icuebcd  oxitte cf t     .  1000c.oiiul  eho ahear  Iirtr   qunritaI
otlpopollaior hby aga c.     a        ht   otlt   acdd   tartllty reta                    ht hoce..houO  f-r _ittta   c-pce..
lot litr txperatof  t htrt o,tclteyxlxorto  ccuotr' adei        ptntct                har or: paae  p.  oa  utlnht,ad  ua   oxidcxaio
ltettot   fco terîtiy r%to ele  hatthlta Irc-aI.air  dtîlita Or                            ut.ccupied perte.
fttorlltpacccdiogtcIorcr1-cr  xxd pax  factîr1 plticg ptrfcrmarcc.                        horat  fa-tOr   coaI  c   elia>-ttl   ra.adus
teohoutc Oc ohetc..elgoed coc  cf thtaatrcrtltttce   f acttICcstctldeito    th   lororyt                                                  te bcbg qatr   spretg
Icd fccllutIy rrerda for p-j[oir  puotla                                                    ci totol,rt,arttl deIltirgercriey
the bllrt  rata  Or aqul td tha datih rae,adaltc thaag.roooce                           oold
malte netr.Thtr ta nchiand crly .ftac  Eaotilityratdele t                               J     AâfuItd Eooclstor Batict
tht tF.clcattr teca1l o  uc   ut tprdoticu ltai, ohar eaoh geoait                           Pitt   col-  c .ml sud faaale->c... toroJ. maIe mc-d mî
cfate _epote tlf suclc.Tht attiocO ...               airtrxaeo)letc   î  agaa   htcaylca   apocrgsc   tPa.ir
aeritacrd ontht hanta cf' the pcjcr    htcaltc    frtpplto                                      tar   ctuae pxplatcca; cttexly toclda-  hldttx aaad t-ll
Ot tha  et y.21,adretr   fdrioo   tt)iprt   copîsot-                                          yanra but adljtIrd toc dtff-tet lergiha cf pcteao   Idu..ntiio; foc
ttaoarnrtortr foclecîc  Ile r...hed - Th.r - h -eartOt .n..lcat,  popuI.lec                a tro  g-m  puorle  r  htlc  orI thora tho ottiote1 aco1 ag..
etea hor hato retoal.                                       Oacoodarcechcl - octal, tala ad famli  - tCcpntd as  her; etcoxdaty
Par te.  . - Mfcd-y... popolcticc yr-  kqorelotîrce   (lIt0           enatn      f               prrdegrrlccticel,  crnha   rtto    ttci.tfo   u
i l    rr   -Ccpund   caon   fcxgtc)rtrlla>                 ulty cf 12 rc 17 ycare cf a9t;ccrrpttcteraatt                         ura,lPy
-orueric    alttcto   (ceco_ot. -d C__dre   (0lp           cc).rchcoxr  1-                        dclutdrn dooe±co .. tcde.rt f       ruhrocrx  eîhoaaeldre
Pcpuntlc  loeth cre(cectt)-  tottu-  cra  gocrt>ttrx  cf total xxd-                          pttatadaoodr   tcle>rta   h   oseahftecar   r  i
paIr ppulari.re tor 1950-ho, 1960-70, ax> 1970-79                                                ccttetpo-dteg lenot..
PtoaioItooh Ratt (cret            ra- I.   gcul t ht ratet cf -rhao pIp,0-                hdutiI rertroa lte  crar              .tttao            fable tc tard aed etltt
latic-a  foR.t190-h.6, 1960-70, acd 19it04t                                                      oeprr      fao        t.rto1adulo  oplttx  pd 19 y_ar  to  crar.
Crudr Oirr  Otcctnhcutse>   - urcoal 1crr hitttc  pr   otar ..d cf td-ytar
PcPu1aticc; 196t, 1970, no> 197f data.                            .1ocouomrOîc
Couda caat  Oca(ath      hoeI d) - cocon> dratte p- tho....od cf  ild-crr.                     Paxaeec-  Ctar   (crIcunahrd ooouîarltc   -p.a.t.g.  rate ccmptla- cot
popclnotco  196f, 1900.  te> 1978data,                                                         caca x.tite   Ile  that  ighrptacx    tld.ahîans  hascea
C..Aloxtxoodcic    at-rt0               - Iho  cf dxuuoh rtaceoeIll hc-  I0                      rOilie-y  -ahion
,ilIt'y a;   eaJ  ftcr-pra  ctoge   -cdtg tr 1960, 17111. d 1înio                             . rccan    rc       I teolh po...c pe -houata>cp         xc.aouds dl
Paa1cplccno-oorccx  ucua  (houooe)- ucoolcncoocfaccptrt              cenndorrtcott  c             lciîr  au> to~j fonr    p.patlrttira tcr  f rd.  r atm-
cfhtrh-l     cecPI    rlo...crcuIIcnotc lncutnlcplctoopb coat.cfnInetc   daacrcrttr   xrohoccrhra                                                                     ams
PcllPtcttcUar   (creo  fmrtoeacu-fronno                              tere                 cccraco .Onhr   O Oeor
roe   fchl-ctlgcr(1-.   eet   t  uchch-cno   Oorno                                        Ototro    rc  huad  oualc)-Tyrclaa  u   rtdett
dl  oote>ocetlc  no  o     f uon    I.dgcol  ulnpa-hoou    ouittc  acldt  rlecr   Vrttt
prcductnoc cf cul fc  ccccditl .  Prourrcrroloarnrdad  fed  o>                                 îccucc..cro>prmarîy  e rccrtef  gatradtse.-c l  ccsjdo l
ttdotfeaIdc  ePIcr) ticOotttl.r               fcttrnrrt             p.g. otfor1 et>             coanocil uctendcc (pro taIecr   orOeehrdhtnra
tex corI roOdrd .1   ugcgorppddto   cf taon1dui.   noocdro  Or. bnd cftlhrr  ol durlog thtIi ytrr  Ilrodicgn8..dxtta Ocea . rodceO Il                                    rt
urrcca  oroag  prduco   olc  rrahc; Ohi-O,  97. art>.17f dao.tor>ccîoîocîoc
rorroycqulcroecrof cri fn d euplilx cnc-hc ... tc  000c i     r  O b ît. îIlnt rick             I   ~lg  h    .,il   IgI    .i..1
pot  -c> turîfîchî     fupllr   cxprlet Ocextuo pIdutlot  lcprc Fitt                 foGRe FnRCE    cc   nnanr      cncolycrc    anr   tldc
noporto, adoacoctrc.trNpocxuldt ontoro  f or>. n-ar,                                        Otro   fco       d oreepicyrd bu r-      ldtt  hcaxrca  cuata  tic
hoccd Icoc   19ti-c,  90  at>IIlI  197  dnIa                Ilxin   a  prrrnr  fbotl flehoi  fchr-96,ml tid 97  -da.
qolosronafcr  il ouonrix raahiihe>  r 000 prcidc  tc oftouh197  ccdlu   Ocrx. t,    ft11I.    ..; 6,17     d11   .
puler prIc, cfchc   10 orna  chcud'ht  USaci    protrit.  Ohex                                Idrol>-  sct lyorroe   ro  rxpd  ta. ..xu  sua.   rd.ti.Ihroot
ter cr -ir   orcaO  enci  fcc  Icml  ocd cIte-f        rnI t  opplp..   23  0cr  daf                NI-rrrcnrtc t ht.l   popoattfot. cr4ulccg. rita    Ij t ... A.fx..
rcced  trouictxnlo cc  poltex  inroter o tc p, unît-hy  1970 Ild 1977 hldata.    Occroal  ca Ieden 1c1 c-taOuc cdputîtotohd-15Id,  hoau 
thn.d  oce u-u)il.Yo;o  1a     oo  huod(-6c5ldohaccrouad 197tht rote>  lar forta.MAI..i
cgaarnou-  pera  o  ctldre  tu- tho  a0r  cuup  Ocrxoppcrlyofifcoud-
trete  data  -aru Ird  ttc .     .teica; >99>-    , 197,ac  097765  19ta.                oct19ofdi'..  lîoooro65c
A ... 1 d..h. p- th .a.odocînah ot Pcir...    Onca  ht   iccahor   tc)   atta>orcobt
Ltiftecococa  ichCrca  - Arroage nebec cf yocx ct lofe raeirrog                                  cf hcoxtholdc.
at brrth: 1960, un70 ccd 1979 dota.
ofag  pet  hcun c. l ice btrtbt.                                                             Etetooxa  Aheclute P_rart  1orc_  trl_  lOt  0cr$  cota) - urhs  ard curnu -
tNaber cf ptc.plr (totl   po,  c   oa,            otbcntihOe-daccf txîrttcrl>ycdequar  diet pin.                                                 ......xc-cdttnraat   O   o
tarer coppir (Ocouu>entreated euoxc Il er   r       erd but  tctcxad                   tffccdeir
-atacxuh te nh-  foot frcr.totd       hrbl          prorgi. su  ectatt  reît  Il             iaritgttd ROÎtiaîePcortc    tarai (090 P"r caita>l - oobaaad  e
prrotttgrt c rhatc  rertrtir pcponttcns.îracuoat Ilra pohO                       oclclxtapcar  toorm   laelO  ctI                   r   cfaestptr oaoitt
Occtlo  t  radpatIl        nee   cc   ca  tc(f    ttt    ceace  tch p1Rorrx t1 nc  cf                                                   ilcccro.Oa   _lhralt  deric   tro  thr a
rraerxbd cote  xnl   rlpta   i id,ocrhcto crIl              rorc th,hl:, Irnxhl           ttcat fccuat rc  Ot-c hihacluta   fcrr Ixoxet terr Th                cxtl-
Ilcrn..hxno_rnx      ..rdxdtîoocccrrIct       pxtthrrtcrclcrr                                    crca    rcartoclricuhacdorlttaaahcuatc
d,tuy t,:~ rate   cede..I                                h    l    lIIiRt.dI
cf      Ilxnaxrtasx    roxt-et h1.   mO darrp-hcoc  epeex   cr thh uat cl.  fIl                                                        Ocrohd   1980 ...I
Pl,"dra   o>aiis                                                                                                                                QIcaballa1icte



- 28 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  6.2 million (.id-1979)
GNP per Caplta:  S1,120 (1979)
Amount                                                    Annual Growth Rates
(m<lllon US$                   Actual (et 1972 prices)                          Prolected (at 1977 prices)
Indicator                               at turrent prices)
1979                 1975    1976    1977    1978    19791/            1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Cross domestlc product b/                  7080.0                  8.1      7.4      4.3     8.3      6.9            8.0      7.2      6.6     6.4      6.6
Agriculture                              984.7                  3.9      5.2    -7.5      8.6      0.5            8.0      7.6      3.1     3.1      3.1
Industry                                1982.0                  7.4      7.8     7.0      9.1      8.4           11.6      8.5     8.5      8.0      8.0
Services                                3102.9                 10.6      5.4     5.8      7.7      8.4            6.6      6.2     6.5      6.5      6.5
C-.sumptios                                5440.3                  2.7      8.8      9.5     9.3      6.0            7.8      9.9    10.0      6.9      9.1
Cross lnvestment                           2069.0                 20.2    16.9       5.8     6.6      9.7            7.2      3.1    -2.9       1.3     0.1
Exports of goods and GNFS                  2655.6                  5.0      9.6      5.6     9.1    12.6             5.0      4.1      7.4      7.3     8.8
Imports of goods and GNFS                  3084.9                  2.2    19.3    16.5    10.2        8.5            4.6      7.5      7.5      4.6     9.6
Gross national product                     7030.7                  8.6      6.0      4.8     9.1      6.3            7.8      7.2      6.5      6.4      6.6
Cross national savlngs                                            22.5    -6.3    -1.7    21.2    35.8              17.6    -0.9    -4.1        7.6     0.8
PRICES
GDP deflator                                                     134.2   137.7   151.4   158.6   171.9               -        -        -       -        -
Etchange rate                                                      2.49    2.33    2.33    2.40    2.46
Share of CDP at market prîces (Z)                    Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prtces)                               (at constant prices)
1970    1975    1979    1985                      1970-75    1975-79    1980-85
Cross domestic product                                           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                        8.5          6.5        6.6
Agriculture                                                    16.7   18.2      13.9    13.1                       8.8         1.3         3.7
Industry                                                       20.5   27.1      28.0    29.2                       9.0         7.8         8.1
Services                                                       49.3   42.7      43.8    43.2                       8.7         6.6         6.4
Consumption                                                       84.8   75.5       76.8    82.8                      8.6         8.3         9.0
Gross investment                                                  19.7   29.3       29.2    20.9                     11.8          6.5       -0.4
Exports of goods and GNFS                                         21.9   31.3       37.5    40.3                     12.5         12.2         6.9
Imports of gonds and GNFS                                         26.4   36.1      43.6    44.0                      11.3        12.7         7.4
Gross national produet                                            97.9   99.9       99.3    99.4                      8.7         6.5         6.7
Net factor i.co..e                                                 2.1    0.1        0.7     0.6                        -          -            -
Cross national savlngs                                            13.2   24.3       22.4    17.9                       7.5         5.9        -1.7
As Z GDP
(at current ornces)
1970      1975       1979 a/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                        23.5       25.7       33.3
Current expenditure                                    20.4       19.9       24.4
Surplus (+) or defloit (-)                              3.1        5.9        9.0
Capital expenditure                                     9.5       10.8       13.5
Foreign financing                                       5.0        1.8        1.6
1970-75              1975-79               1980-85
OThER INDICATORS
GNP grovth rate (%)                                     8.7                   6.5                   6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                          6.3                   3.9                   4.2
ICOR                                                    2.6                   4.3                   4.0
Marginal savings rate                                  30.5                  17.6                   0.0
import elastlclty                                       1.24                  2.01                  1.12
a/ Estilmate.
b! GDP at market prices and components, at factor coat.
ssFA ra P 7<



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population:  6.2 million (mid-1979)
GNP per Capita:  $1,120 (1979)
Amount                                                  Annual Growth Rates
(million US$                    Actual (at 1972 prices)                            Proiected (at 1977 prines)
Indicator                                at current prices)
1979                  1975    1976    1977    1978        1979           1980     1981    1982    1983    1984
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                          1762.6                 -9.0      5.8    -5.0    16.0    10.1               6.1       1.3      7.1     6.8       9.3
Crude oil                                 800.0                  27.7   -15.0       1.9    14.0    91.3             11.6    -4.5       9.0      8.6      0.0
Other prlmary                             123.0                -26.7    21.8   -17.9    34.7    10.0               -11.7      5.8      2.7      2.6      2.5
Manufact.tre                              839.6                -14.6    37.2    -1.5    21.9    14.8                 1.3      6.3      6.0      5.7    18.8
Merchandise imports                          2827.3                 -0.4    13.6    30.4        5.5    11.7              4.3      7.6      7.7     4.6    10.0
Food                                      358.9                   7.7   -13.5    25.5    11.1    22.2                7.2      9.9    10.0       6.0      8.9
Petroleum                                 493.5                 43.1   -24.8    -8.5    -3.9    25.7                -9.8    11.0    12.5    -3.4    37.0
Machinery and equipment                   704.8                  33.3    19.1       2.4      5.2   -11.0            -1.3      1.3      0.0      1.3      0.0
Others                                   1270.2                  -8.0     31.2    36.0       2.9    14.1             9.9      9.0      9.1      7.3      8.3
Price Index (1972 - 100)                           Prite Index (1977 - 100)
PRICES
Export price index                            -                    191.0   181.2   197.9   215.0   267.9              196.4   218.8   241.2   264.2   293.2
Import price index                             -                   170.4   163.7   171.4   180.6   205.6              146.6   160.7   175.4   187.4   203.1
Teras of trade lndex                           -                   112.1   110.7   115.5   119.0   130.3              134.0   136.2   137.5   141.0   144.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                    Average Annual Increase (X)
(at -crrent Dri-es)                                   (at constant roices)
1970       1975       1979       1985                 1970-75    1975-79    1980-85
Pap.rts                                                           100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                   11.6         9.4         6.1
Crude oil                                                      24.5        41.8       45.3       54.9                  23.2         3.0          0.0
Other primary                                                  21.2        18.0        7.1        5.2                   6.7          2.0         3.0
Manufactures                                                   54.3        40.2       47.6       39.9                   6.2         14.3         9.9
Imports                                                            100.0    100.0       100.0      100.0                   13.4        12.4         7.6
Fond                                                             20.6      15.8       12.7       17.9                   8.9          7.5         8.8
Petroleum                                                         4.0       9.8       17.5       22.6                  36.5        23.2         14.5
Machlnery and Equipment                                          23.0      30.2       24.9       27.6                  15.7          8.3        -0.1
Others                                                          52.4      44.2        44.9       31.9                  10.6         13.2         8.4
Share of Trade with                Share of Trade with                      Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)           Developing Countries (X)            Capital Surtlus 011 Exporters (X)
1970      1975       1979          1970       1975        1979               1970       1975       1979
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                          62.6      48.6       74.1           23.4       41.4       n.a.               14.0       10.0       n.a.
Imports                                          62.9      67.1       73.5           33.7       25.7       n.a.                3.4        7.2       n.a.



- 30 -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 6 cf 
TUIISIA -  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(mil-lion US$ et cvtrent prions)
Population:        6.2 million (eid-1979)
GNP Per Capite:  $1,120 (1979)
Acruai                                                   Proiected
1970         1975         1976         1977         1978          19791/__  1980          1981        1982       1983       1985
BALANCE OF PAYMFNTS
Net experts of goods 6 services         -104.5        -208.8       -417.1       -567.0       -599.7        -478.5       -35Q.8    -499.5    -567.2    -427.8    -744.7
Experts of geods & services            355.6       1,529.2      1,479.4      1,695.5       2,090.6      2,913.9      3,548.4   4,062.4   4,746.0   5,513.1   7,384.3
Inportn nf goods & nervices            460.1       1,738.0      1,896.5      2,262.5       2,690.3      3,392.4      3,899.2   4,561.9   5,313.2   5,930.9   8,129.7
Net trans-f-                               53.0         47.4          52.8         46.4         33.6          31.0         36.0       36.0       36.1       36.1       36.1
Correct accont balance                    -51.5       -161.4       -364.3        -520.6       -566.1       -447.5       -314.8    -463.5    -531.1    -39i.7    -708.5
Direct private invest-ent                  25.5         50.2         102.6         92.3         91.1        164.8         181.3      199,4      219.3      241.3      292.0
MLT loans (net)                            43.4        124.3         161.1        557.1        488.6         383.0        324.0      346.9      405.7      227.6      559.7
Officlal                                 41.7        102.9        131.5         286.7        184.8        256.8         364.9      366.4      397.4      328.6      287.0
Priva-t                                   1.7         21.6         29.6         270.4        283.8        126.2        -40.9       -19.5        3.3    -1L1.O       279.7
Other capital                               2.0        -53.0          58.6       -185.5         41.4          32.4          -          -          -          -          -
Change l  reserves                        -19.4         39.7         42.0          56.7        -35.0       -132.7       -190.4       -82.8      -93.9      -77.2    -143.3
Octersarional re -erves                    15.4        347.5         304.5        247.8        282.8        415.5         605.9      688.8      782.7      859.9   1,134.7
Reserves as nonths cf lnports               0.4          2.4           1.9          1.3          1.3           1.5          1.9        1.8        1.8        1.7        1.7
Amteal
1970     1975      1976       1977      1978     1979A/
0ROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Officilo  grants                                                 43.0      50.2      53.2      47.3      32.7      31.0
Crosn disb.rsenents etf MLr lesns                                88.8    191.8    227.2    646.7    575.1    661.6
Conc- ssi..al                                                  45.2    100.1    108.7    178.4    182.5    279.6
Other -ultllatel                                                1.0       5.5        -        0.3       7.6      12.7
B811teral                                                      41.3      82.0      99.8    172.5    174.1    266,7
IDA                                                             2.9      12.6       8.9       5.6       0.8       0.2
Nen-noncessînnal                                                 43.6      91.7    118.5    468.3    392.6    382.0
Frivate                                                        33.1      49.8      52.2    311.8    334.8    243.0
OfficIal export credits                                         1.3      15.0      16.5    100.6       12.0      16.3
IB3D                                                            9.2      26.9      25.3     47.5       33.0      55.4
Other nelt-leteral                                               -         -       24.5       8.4      12.8      67.3
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Ontstanding and Dilbursed                                  544.8  1,038.9  1,175.2  1,780.1  2,358.9  2,893.9
OfficIal                                                      370.9    862.2    987.5  1,388.6  1,567.1  1,931.3
IBRD                                                         70.1    109.8    127.9    167.3    189.4    232.0
IDA                                                          36.7      55.3     64.1       66.8     67.4       67.3
Other                                                       264.1    697.1    795.5  1,074.5  1,310.3  1,632.0
Priverte                                                      173.9    176.7    187.7    471.5    791.8    962.6
Undinb-rsnd debt                                                308.9    725.3  1,260.4  1,551.5  1,708.9  1,569.9
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service pay-ents                                      63.2    101.6    104.6    143.7    201.6    310.3
tnterest                                                       17.8      35.1      38.7      53.9      95.0    142.0
Paryents a  % experts                                            17.8       6.7       7.1       8.5       9.6      10h7
Parents as   G GNP                                                4.4       2.4       2.4       2.8       3.4       4.4
Average interest rate en nnw Loane (I)                             -        3.9       5.1       6.2       7.1       6.3
Offi10ia                                                         -        3.3       4.3       4.7       4.8       6.3
Priva-e                                                          -        6.7       8.0       7.7       9.8        -
Averagn uaturlty cf sew lans (years)                               -       24.0      20.7      16.3      14.9      19.4
OfficIai                                                         -       27.1      23.9      21.4      19.5      19.4
Frivote                                                          -        9.1       8.9      10.7       9.4        -
As % ef Debt Oltstanding
at End nf MHst Recent
Year (1979)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturlty str-ctsre of debt esttrandlng (%)
Asertlation duo  nIthin 5 years                                                      49.0
A,ortiaatios du.  ithin 10 yI-ears                                                    92.7
Internst structure of debt cntstandIng (2>
Interest due eIthin first year                                                         6.5
a/ fotînates.



- 31 -
ANNEX Il
Page 1 of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                  Amount (less
Credit                                                                                   Cancellation)
Number   Year            Borrower                    Purpose                       Bank    IDA b/   Undis.
Twenty-four Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                     162.36   60.47
238     1971  Republic of Tunisia              Population                                  4.80      1.14
858     1972  Republic of Tunisia              Tourism Infrastructure             14.00              2.52
937     1973  Republic of Tunisia              Urban Planning & Public            11.00              1.42
Transportation                    -
1029     1974  Republic of Tunisia              Hotel Training                      5.60              0.39
1042     1974  Compagnie des Phosphates        Phosphate Development               23.30              1.19
et Chemin de Fer de GAFSA
1068     1974  Republic of Tunisia              Irrigation Rehabilitation          12.20              4.73
1088     1975  Republic of Tunisia             Urban Sewerage                      28.00             12.41
1155     1975  Republic of Tunisia              Third Education                     8.60              7.36
1188     1975  Republic of Tunisia              Second Highways                    28.00             20.23
1189     1976  Banque de Développement          Sixth Development Finance Co.   20.00                 0.66
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)
238-1    1976  Republic of Tunisia              Population                                  4.80      1.12
1340     1976  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit             12.00              3.13
1355     1976  Société Tunisienne de            Second Power                       14.50              0.62
l'Electricité et du Gaz
1431     1977  Republic of Tunisia              Irrigation Development             42.00             17.15
1445     1977  SONEDE                          Fourth Water Supply                 21.00             14.88
1504     1977  BDET                            Development Finance Co.             30.00              5.85
1505     1977  Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industrial Project   5.00                  3.27
1601     1978  Republic of Tunisia             Rural Roads (Third Highways)    32.00                 30.02
1675     1979  Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Sewerage              26.50             26.35
1702     1979  Société Nationale               Fifth Water Supply                  25.00             16.81
d'Exploitation d'Eau
1705     1979  Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Development           19.00             18.69
1746     1979  Republic of Tunisia              Second Fisheries                   28.50             28.15
1796     1980  Republic of Tunisia              Southern Irrigation                25.00             24.84
1797     1980  Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                            42.50              32.95
1841     1980  Republic of Tunisia              Fourth Highways                    36.50             36.50
1864a/   1980  Societe Tunisienne de            Second Natural Gas Pipeline        37.00             37.00
l'Electricite et du Gaz
1885 a/  1980  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit              30.00             30.00
c|     1981  Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Education                    26.00             26.00
TOTAL                                                            765.56   70.07   405.38
Of which has been repaid                                          78.38    5.13
Total now outstanding                                            687.18   64.94
Amount Sold                             14.33
of which has been repaid               11.42                      2.91
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                                684.27   64.94
Total Undisbursed                                                403.12    2.26   405.38
a/ Not yet effective
b/ Prior to exchange adjustment
c/ Not yet signed



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESIMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1981)
Amount in Ub$ Million
Year       Obligator                                Type of Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1962      NPK Engrais                               Fertilizers                  2.0      1.5      3.5
1966      Societe Nationale d' Investissement   Development Finance Co.                   0.6      0.6
1969      COFIT (Tourism)                           Development Finance Co.    8.0        2.2    10.2
1970      societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now BDET                          Development Finance Co.               0.6      0.6
1973      Societe Touristique & Hoteliere
RYM SA                                  Tourism                       1.6     0.3      1.9
1975      Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de bousse-Nord                          Tourism                       2.5     0.7      3.2
1974      Industries Chimiques du Fluor             Chemicals                             0.6      0.6
1978      BDET                                      Development Finance Co.               1.2      1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                               14.1     7.7    21.8
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                                  7.2     1.8      9.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      6.9     5.9    12.8
Total undisbursed                                                              0.4      0.4



- 33 -                           ANNEX Il
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:        Population Project: US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1:      Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
(NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After many delays, construction of the maternity hospitals in
Sousse, Tunis and Sfax is completed. These facilities are expected to be
staffed and fully operational by mid-1981. The construction of the fourth
hospital at Bizerte is likely to be completed by end 1981. Twenty-five of
the 29 maternal and child health/family planning centers have been com-
pleted; three are expected to be completed by mid-1981. One center (La
Hafsia) has been deleted from the project because the Government has been
unable to obtain a suitable site.
Ln. 858:        Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan of
September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973;
Closing Date; December 31, 1980.
The project is in its final implementation stage. The remaining
works are expected to be completed by April 1981. Disbursements are being
made only on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 937:        Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432:        US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of
October 5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by October 1981. The project helped
establish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning
authority in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -                           ANNEX Il
Page 4 of 9
transport sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial
changes in public programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to
encourage the use of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The
project also assisted the public transport company Societe Nationale des
Transports (SNT) in renewing its bus fleet and railway rolling stock,
improving its organization and finance, and upgrading the maintenance of its
vehicles with the construction of a new bus depot. In parallel, the city of
Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with a one-way street system, reserved bus
lanes and restricted parking zones, which contributed substantially to the
improvement of bus services in Greater Tunis. This, combined with an
increase in the SNT bus fleet, and improved bus maintenance has led to an
increase in the use of SNT transport facilities by about 27 percent above
the level which would have been achieved in the absence of the project.
Ln. 1029:       Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The hotel schools at Hammamet and Sousse Nord are now operational.
The training curricula have been introduced in September 1979 and extended
to all training schools in the country. Disbursements are being made only
on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 1042:       Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were
intended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib washing plant which was
commissioned at the end of 1979. Following the initial failure of the
mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, the company hired
experienced consultants whose services are financed by the Bank loan. The
services include: (i) 6 months' technical assistance in further testing the
longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study on open pit mining of an alterna-
tive deposit from which the supply of rock to the washing plant could be
supplemented, and (iii) the design and implementation of an improved cost
control system. The longwall test has not achieved a continuous good
performance. The first phase of the open pit feasibility study is
completed. The second phase will be started after completion of additional
geological and beneficiation work. Cost control in the company is still
inadequate.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: september 18,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation works in the iledjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for the marketing
center in Nebhana for which bids are called again atter the previously
successful bidder went bankrupt. Land reform is progressing slowly, and
farmers are lagging behind in meeting their contribution to the investment
costs in the Medjerda area. In Nebhana, the land consolidation program is
developing well and farmers have been settled on nearly 65 percent of the
total area.  OMVVM continues to encourage large owners to improve cultiva-
tion of land and marked progress has been reported in the distribution of
medium and short-term credit. Progress in construction and rehabilitation
of irrigation, drainage and road networks continues to be satisfactory.
Production of early vegetables under greenhouses in the Nebhana is very
encouraging.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban bewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date; December 15, 1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAb. As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and
project completion is expected by mid-1982. One of its major benefits will
be release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now
has been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by
untreated sewage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a
land-use plan for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in
progress.
Ln. 1155;       Third Education Project; Usb8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness; March 1, 1976; Closing Date;
March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily; designs for the
extension of the five teacher training colleges have been approved and
invitations for local bidding are scheduled for April 1981. Equipment
procurement for the teachers' colleges and the ITM centers is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 36 -                           ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works of Lots 9 and 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway have been
completed. Construction is in progress on Lot 6 in Nabeul. Construction
works of Lots 5, 7 and Il have started. The local financing issue has been
discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and of Planning and Finance,
and a satisfactory physical and financial execution plan now exists for the
remaining items, except for Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of
expropriation which may result in deleting this element from the project.
The final report of the transport coordination study bas been completed.
The Government is now reviewing the consultants recommendations, and has
agreed to set up a transport planning unit.
Ln. 1189:       Sixth Development Finance Company Project;  US$20 million
loan of January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past three years in
the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial
practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly
important role in financing industrial development, extending about
one-third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in Tunisia.
Disbursements are being made only on commitments prior to March 31, 1981.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural.Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
About 75 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will have to be financed from the
Third Agricultural Credit project. Disbursements in Categories 1, 2 and 4 -
subloans to small and medium farmers, commercial farmers and agro-industrial
investors - are progressing rapidly. They will commence shortly in Category
3, subloans to farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations, after BNT and Government have approved six subprojects. The
Closing Date may have to be extended to December 31, 1981.
Ln. 1355:       Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines
have been commissioned. Measures are being taken to overcome difficulties
in operating the turbines, which have arisen due to excessive use and lack
of spare parts. The energy pricing study has been extended in scope to
include an overall assessment of the country's energy resources and is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1981.



- 37 -                             ANNEX Il
Page 7 of 9
Ln. 1431:        Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation con-
tinues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule. The
new railroad, including superstructure, is now completed and will soon be
operational. After some initial delays, construction of the Medjerda-Cap
Bon interconnection canal is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. 1445;        Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the proj-
ect is now expected to be completed by end 1982, about six months behind the
appraisal schedule. Having increased the average water rates in 1979 by
about 44 percent, the borrower's financial situation is expected to remain
satisfactory for the next two years.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The $5 million loan to the Government is fully committed, and as is
the $28 million component to BDET. The $2 million earmarked for the financ-
ing of SSI extensions is half committed. Disbursements are in line with
appraisal estimates. Under the project, BDET is giving priority in its
financing to projects located in the least developed regions, sponsored by
new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or export-
orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the commercial banks' initial
reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing has been overcome. Con-
siderable progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities toward setting
up a network of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance experts,
specifically catering to the needs of SSI, as agreed under the project.
Ln 1601:         Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the provinces to be
covered under the project. The Government wishes to accelerate implementa-
tion so as to complete construction works by end-1982. Progress on



- 38 -                                 ANNEX Il
Page 8 of 9
the complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln 1675:        Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is proceed-
ing. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln 1702:        Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved eight urban and
seventeen rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $28.5 million.
Procurement is expected to be completed by June 1981.
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Staffing of the project units and preparation of tender documents
are progressing satisfactorily. Civil works have started on two Tunis sites
and one Sfax site and service areas. All technical work on the civil works
component is progressing well.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
All contracts for port infrastructure have been awarded. Detailed
design for the boats has been delayed due to delays in contract finalization
with SCET. Engines are being procured under ICB; analysis of bids is still
in progress.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The implementation of the project is proceeding according to
schedule. A contract has been awarded for the sinking of the first 13 deep
wells of the project. Bidding documents and bids have been reviewed by the
Bank for procurement of asbestos-cement pipes.



- 39 -                          ANNEX Il
Page 9 of 9
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date; June
30, 1985.
The contracts for civil works have been awarded. Work has now
commenced at La Goulette after delays in agreement on an acceptable location
of a site for depositing material to be dredged from the project area. No
work has yet commenced at Sfax due to delays in moving the Chantiers Navals
from their present location to the new fishing harbor nearby, and checking
of final design. Consultants to supervise the works at Sfax have been
appointed.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well and according to
schedule. All the elements of the 1981 program for rehabilitation and
maintenance have now been received and reviewed.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 22,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The original project scope has been modified because of
uncertainties related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project is
being redesigned to utilize royalty gas as a substitute to premium liquid
fuel products. Amendment to legal documents is under preparation.
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium- and long-term credit to small and medium
farmers, production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and
agroindustries. The loan is not yet effective pending receipt of the legal
opinions.



- 40 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to                  28 months (September 1978
prepare the project:                          through January 1981)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:            Centre National des Etudes
Agricoles (CNEA); Forestry
Department, Ministry of Agri-
culture; FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program with assistance from
the Bank
(c) Project first identified by the Bank:         June 1978
(d) Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:               September/October 1980
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations            April 11, 1981
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:                September 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1. A special condition of effectiveness is that the legal opinion to be
provided by the Government specifies that the Development Authority
(the Office) has been established and duly empowered to carry out the
project in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Loan
Agreement (paragraph 51).
2.  A special condition of disbursement would be that the arrangements
referred to in paragraph 56 have been entered into.
3. Other conditions are;
(i) the Government would implemnent the 15-year program in line with
the objectives and investments begun under the project
(paragraph 51);



- 41 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii)  the Government would undertake the studies mentioned in
para. 48(h) under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and submit them for comment to the Bank not later than
January 1, 1984 (paragraph 51);
(iii) the Government, whenever necessary, would take all appropriate
actions, including the issuing of decrees declaring specific
soil conservation works as works of "public interest," in order
that the required zones within the project area be available for
these works, and continue to be available for the purposes of
the project (paragraph 53);
(iv) under arrangements established in consultation with the Bank,
Government would provide compensation to those suffering a loss
as a result of the implementation of the project (paragraph 54);
(v) the Government would, not later than January 1, 1982, enter into
arrangements with the Office and BNT, satisfactory to the Bank,
to establish a credit system; Government would require BNT to
develop its credit operations in the project area in order to
satisfy credit demand other than that generated by the project
(paragraph 56);
(vi) an arrangement satisfactory to the Bank would be concluded
between the Office and the National Agricultural Research
Institute (INRAT) not later than June 30, 1982, specifying their
mutual obligations in regard to agricultural research under the
project (paragraph 57);
(vii) the Office would establish not later than December 31, 1982 a
monitoring and evaluation unit (paragraph 58);
(viii) user charges for pastures, village woodlots, farm equipment
services provided by the Office, and price margins on output
marketed and inputs distributed by the Office would be reviewed
annually commencing not later than June 1, 1982 in consultation
with the Bank (paragraph 61); and
(ix)  the Government would permit the retail price of fresh milk to
reflect the premium attached by the market to fresh milk
relative to reconstituted milk (paragraph 66).






TUNISIA
NORTHWEST RURAL fDEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                               Med,terneaa  Sea
=     Project area com,poneents:                      ;e:     :     
Krounrre - Mogods.:
Tesso ltferievr                                                                                            BIZERTEu
-   --Csourhnr#ef bfudarjes0.          fD              ;CS   l./2                                                /
-    - -h Cormmune boudaries
Governorste IteSaduQrteris   =    )J_O .8ez
@    ColDvnïlnhe«iquorteFs            X                   /_                            ./                             5
---Unp,aved roads =  iE.O/   f5
f g § | RoilwaysX J= 0 : 0 ;00 : />\Tta~einane ' \/
1 --nfernationcl bourdary                g        fZ0AA)j                                                                        
N                                                                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \~~~~~~N3'0
SEB;g7  Fernanc7 'S 
}~~~~~bb                           _                                           \      -LBA  l  ' 
HammamB, <i<ourguia                         . 
-36°30                         3 530:d  2,   t;;  Ass  ~  t`!N EM`ltt` 2   . 9 1lUN - 7  r   -   Z  36-30'
JErDOUBÀJ~~~~~~~ N^   /)<usok.B&J 
t 0 = >Gh(rdimrvua/r/j     ._ 
i;<okie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ThiYusX*E .., h,,s ,t UD/- p,/p-  by> thecneeC.csJéeh
3tj \T~'K~,,s,rù~OO   Xt/~ \                                                                            f t -dM f
t/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h -p- t( Ai,,, ht                                          tto d.
S   ,   e~~~~~~~~E KE                       ESENIA 11                                                  bTUdNl.~ A- - /h
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d -t ioubio, - th p\, « 
< 9 t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMLERI A \                                                   A rn 
35- 30 ) \ \ 2 O~~~~~~AhmaniXj  W[
Sz'       X                 )                f               t vf                                            \f'/e , a
/;otobas50   8-130 \\ [o Koss"ine  IL  sooa   \ rO Sbait/o                           (      E z       g t,>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



