QiOFICIAL
_D:cUT] LOAN NUMBER 1997 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Northwest Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1997 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (herein fter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested tb Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project other than Parts D, H.3 (b) and K thereof
will be carried out by the Borrower through the Office, and
the Borrower for such purpose will make available to the Office
a portion of Che proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) Part D of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower through the Office and BNT, and the Borrower for such
purpose will make available to BNT a portion of the proceeds of
the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿(a) "Office" means the Office de Developpement Sylvo-
Pastoral du Nord-Ouest, an 6tablissement public A caractere
industriel et commercial responsible for development in the
Project Area, established by the Borrower's Law No. 81-17 of
March 9, 1981;
(b) "Project Area" means the area of about 311,000 ha com-
posed of the sub-zones of Kroumirie-Mogods, Oued Zarga, Oued Khil
and downstream Oued Tessa;
(c) "Program" means the Borrower's development program for
the Project Area consisting of the continuation of the activities
under the Project based on the objectives of the Project over a
total period of 15 years; and
(d) "BNT" means the Banque Nationale de Tunisie.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-four million dollars ($24,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out Parts A,
B, C, E, F, G, H, I and J of the Project, other than Part H.3 (b)
thereof, through the Office; (ii) carry out Part D through
the Office and BNT; and (iii) carry out Parts H.3 (b) and K with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) allocate to the
Office budgetary funds in such amounts as shall be required to
meet the local expenditures under the Project and those proceeds
of the Loan which shall be withdrawn with respect to other than
Parts D, H.3 (b) and K of the Project; and (ii) for the purposes
of carrying out Part D of the Project and not later than
January 1, 1982, enter into arrangements with the Office and BNT,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the deposit with BNT out of the
proceeds of the Loan of an amount equivalent to two million two
hundred thousand dollars ($2,200,000), and for the establishment
by the Office and BNT of the credit scheme referred to under Part
D of the Project, in accordance, inter alia, with the credit
provisions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qual-
ifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of
paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall establish
within the Office, not later than December 31, 1982, a moni-
toring and evaluation unit.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than the Closing Date or such other date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under


﻿-5-
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(e) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. Whenever necessary to permit the carrying out
of the works under Parts A and E.5 of the Project, the Borrower
shall take all action as shall be required, including the
declaration of these works as works of public interest (Travaux
d'Utilitg Publique), in order that the required' zones within the
Project Area shall be readily available for said works and shall
continue at all times to be available for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that schools
constructed under the Project shall be fully operated and main-
tained by the Borrower's Ministry of Education.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that farmers suffer-
ing a financial or consumption Loss from implementation of
the Project are compensated under arrangements established by
the Borrower in consultation with the Bank.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of carrying out Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Office, not later
than June 30, 1982, to enter into an arrangement satisfactory to
the Bank with the Borrower's Institut National de la Recherche
Agronomique de Tunisie.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿- 6 -
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by ai. equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Office and
BNT to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any Part thereof, including, with-
out limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account
of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on
the basis of certificates of expenditure and shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Office and BNT
to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
in respect of the Project for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any Case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of the financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested including, without limitation to the foregoing,
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement
as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Office to take out
and maintain with responsible insurers, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, commencing not later than
June 1, 1982, review annually in consultation with the Bank the
levels applied in the Project Area of: (i) user charges for
pastures, village woodlots and farm equipment services provided by
the Office, such charges to be sufficient to cover operation and
maintenance costs, and a proportion of investment costs, based
upon farmer's ability to pay; and (ii) price margins on outputs
marketed and inputs distributed by the Office, such price margins
to be sufficient to cover the operating costs of the Office's
marketing and input supply activity, excluding special subsidies
to beneficiaries.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to permit the officia" retail price of milk to reflect the premium
attached by the market to fresh milk relative to reconstituted
milk.
Section 4.07. After completion of the Project, the Borrower
shall take all measures, determined in consultation with the Bank,
necessary to implement the Program in line with the objectives and
investments begun under the Project.
Section 4.08. In connection with the Borrower's agricultural
sector, the Borrower shall undertake the studies included in Part
K of the Project, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and shall submit such studies to the Bank for its comments
not later than January 1, 1984.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause BNT to adequately
develop its agricultural lending activities in the Project Area in
addition to the credit to be provided under Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) tne Borrower, the Office or BNT shall have failed
to perform any of their respective obligations under this Agree-
ment or under the arrangements entered into pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; and
(b) any action shall have been taken for the abrogation
or amendment of any terms of the Borrower's Law No. 81-17 of
March 9, 1981, or other instruments establishing and governing the
Office which would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect
the execution of the Project or the ability of the Borrower
or the Office to perform their respective obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of


﻿-9-
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Office has been duly
and legally established as an etablissement public a caractere
industriel et commercial in compliance with all applicable laws
and regulations prevailing in the Republic of Tunisia, and has
been duly empowered to carry out the Project in accordance with
the provisions set forth in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date  6/ Yf, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre du Plan et des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
Place de la Monnaie
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTERE DU PLAN                  MIPLAN
Tunis                              12117 TN


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their rtapective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By       er
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Construction of                3,100,000      45%
buildings and
water points
(2) Vehicles, equipment            7,300,000      100% of for-
and livestock                                eign expendi-
tures and 65%
of local ex-
penditures
(3) Soil conservation,             4,700,000      60%
forest and pastures
(4) Disbursements by BNT           1,800,000      85%
for credit under Parts
D.2 and D.3 of the
Project
(5) Disbursements by                 400,000      85%
BNT for incremental
short-term credit
under Part D.1 of
the Project
(6) Consultants' services          2,400,000      100%
for Part J of the
Project


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(7) Studies under Part K          1,000,000      85%
of the Project
(8) Agricultural research           500,000      85%
under Part B (e) of
the Project
(9) Unallocated                   2,800,000
TOTAL         24,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for


﻿- 13 -
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $400,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (6)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after March 31, 1981; and (b) expenditures under Categories
(4) and (5), until all of the arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement have
been entered into and shall be legally binding upon the parties
thereto.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project includes (i) the first phase of the Program
consisting of a five-year time-slice of the Program to be carried
out in the Project Area, and (ii) studies. The Project consists
of the following Parts:
Part A:   Soil Conservation
1.   Introduction of changes in cultivation practices,
including contour farming, continuous cropping of
cultivable land, differing crops on alternate parcels on
hillsides and use of grass markers on about 5,200 ha of
land.
2.   Introduction of contour bank systems on about 850 ha of
land and the installation and maintenance of permanent
pastures on about 16,100 ha, including land preparation
and management of grazing.
3.   Afforestation on about 5,500 ha.
4.   Provisior, of fencing off, supervised grazing, water
control works and afforestation of about 480 ha of land
surrounding gulleys and stream beds.
Part B:   Agricultural Development
Extension Service and Research:
(a) Creation of about 20 intervention centers including
one for each 4,000 ha approximately with two to
three extension agents per center.
(b) Creation of a systematic extension system based
in part on the training and visit system to
introduce new farming practices, crops, inputs
and equipment.
(c) Extension of farming techniques by subject
matter specialists and extension staff.
(d) Provision of assistance to farmers on land
exchanges.


﻿- 15 -
(e) Provision of applied research consisting, inter
alia, of comparative study of soil conservation
measures, analysis of new forage crops and live-
stock management in a semi-intensive system.
(f) Utilization of research results by the subject
matter specialists referred to in paragraph (c)
above.
Part C:   Farm Input and Equipment Supply
Acquisition of farming equipment, material and inputs and
resale or lease-sale to farmers and entrepreneurs.
Part D: Agricultural Credit
1.   Incremental short-term credit for farm inputs.
2.   Medium-term credit for farm machinery and equipment,
equipment for enterprises undertaking Project works,
draft animals, livestock and construction under the
Project.
3.   Long-term credit for stables and fruit tree planting.
4.   Long-term credit for rural housing improvement.
5.   Training of credit agents.
Part E:   Land Tenure
1.   Provision of state land to the extent available to small
farmers whose farms are not viable.
2.   Informal land exchange between farmers in order to
reduce farm fragmentation and to facilitate the execu-
tion of the Project.
3.   Provision of certificates of land possession to validate
land tenure and encourage land exchanges.
4.   Purchase of land owned by absentee or other owners
unwilling to participate in Project activities and its
resale or rental to participants.


﻿- 16 -
5.   Improvement and management of non-arable grazing
land severely degraded due to lack of management
and overstocking.
Part F:   Forestry Production
Reforestation and maintenance on about 5,500 ha.
Part G:   Livestock Development
1.   Acquisition of sires to improve genetic potential; and
acquisition of crossbred cows, ewes and goats for
resale to farmers.
2.   Expansion of forage production from permanent pastures.
3.   Improvement of animal health and productivity through
advice provided by extension service, establishment of
livestock health facilities in intervention centers,
provision of veterinary services, investments in water
supply and installation of about 5 milk collection
centers.
4.   Acquisition of bulk milk transport vehicles.
Part H:   Infrastructure
1.   Roads
(a) Rehabilitation of about 320 km of inter-village
roads.
(b) Rehabilitation of about 450 km of farm and forestry
roads.
(c) Maintenance of all rehabilitated roads and about
100 km of existing unclassified roads each year.
2.   Water Supply
Construction of about 15 water points, including wells,
reservoirs, small artificial lakes, run-off systems and
river pumping.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Schools
(a) Construction of about 10 schools.
(b) Staffing of said schools.
Part I:   Nutrition and Food Aid
Distribution of food as compensation for temporary
losses suffered or work done by the population with
respect to Project works.
Part J:   Technical Assistance
1.   Obtaining technical assistance in the areas of agri-
culture, pasture and livestock development, rural
engineering, credit/marketing, land use planning,
soil conservation, forestry, financial planning and
accounting.
2.   Training abroad of senior staff of the Office.
Part K:   Studies
1.   Study for a regional development plan for the Borrower's
Northwest Region.
2.   Study for a rural development plan for the Borrower's
Central Region.
3.   Study for, and establishment of, a monitoring and
evaluation system serving the agricultural sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1986.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1986
through   August 15, 2001                   750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                    1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    5.30%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                    7.70%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                    8.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                    9.60%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 21 -
Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tunisia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 22 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Schedule:
1. Civil works for office buildings, repair shops, inter-
vention centers and schools shall be procured on the basis of
local competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that
individual works whose cost shall be estimated not to exceed the
equivalent of $100,000 may, up to an aggregate cost of not more
than the equivalent of $2,000,000, be carried out by force
account.
2. Works relating to afforestation, creation of village
woodlots, improvement of pastures, roads, gullies, water points
and creation of contour banks shall, as appropriate, either be
carried out by force account or be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally or by negotiated contracts
in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3. Contracts for equipment and vehicles whose cost shall be
estimated not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000 each may, up to
an aggregate cost of not more than the equivalent of $2,000,000,
be procured as appropriate on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally or by international or local shopping after
having obtained quotations from at least three suppliers, all on
the basis of local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4. Contracts for agricultural inputs and materials may be
procured by direct purchase or by international shopping, after
having obtained quotations from at least three suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts to be awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Part A.1 of this Schedule and all contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid


﻿- 23 -
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform


﻿- 24 -
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Credit Provisions under Part D of the Project
Revolving Fund
Funds equivalent to credit commitments under Part D of the
Project would be deposited in full by the Borrower in an account
at BNT each year, minus repayments on account of credits made in
previous years. Repayments on account of credits under Part D of
the Project together with interest and other charges would be
redeposited in such account for continued use under Part D of the
Project.
Terms
Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
normal BNT lending and repayment conditions, elibibility criteria
and security requirements would apply except that (i) up to 100%
of input costs other than labor may be financed by short-term
credit, and (ii) restrictions relating to the size of the farms or
the membership in a Societe' de Caution Mutuelle shall not apply.
Subsidy
The Borrower shall cover the difference between interest
and other charges collected in respect of credits under Part D of
the Project and interest and other charges to be paid in respect
of the Loan.
Repossession
All sub-borrowers would be required to agree that the farm
assets financed by credit under Part D of the Project could be
repossessed in the event of non-payment in accordance with local
law.
Commissions to BNT
The Borrower shall pay to BNT appropriate commissions
computed on the basis of credit disbursements and repayments.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness rhereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /       day of       , 198/
FOR SECRETARY


