Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF GRANT NUMBER 022648
Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant
Agreement
(Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-out Project)
among
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
AGENCIA COLOMBIANA DE COOPERACION INTERNACIONAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
Dated December 6, 1999
OTF GRANT NUMBER 022648
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 1999, among REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA, AGENCIA 
COLOMBIANA DE COOPERACION INTERNACIONAL. (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as Ttrustee of grant funds 
provided by Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone 
Layer (Montreal Protocol) to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone 
Layer into the Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (the Resolution), established a Facility, including 
the OTF, to assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby 
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) the Parties to the Montreal Protocol have established the 
Multi-lateral Fund (Fund) for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol to operate 
under the authority of the said Parties to provide the financing of agreed incremental 
costs to enable the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the Montreal 
Protocol to comply with control measures provided for in the Montreal Protocol;
WHEREAS (C) the Executive Committee of the Fund (Executive Committee) and the 
Bank have entered into an agreement, made effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which 
the Executive Committee has agreed to provide funds to the OTF to be administered by 
the Bank as Ttrustee in accordance with the provisions of the said agreement and the 
Resolution;
Page  2
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient is the Colombian public entity responsible for 
channeling financial resources from international cooperation, when such cooperation 
is subject to governmental approval;
WHEREAS (E) the Recipient and tRepubliche Republic of Colombia, having satisfied 
themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the Pproject described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement (the Project)(at times also referred to as the OTF Grant Agreement), 
have requested assistance from the resources of the OTF in the financing of the 
Project, and the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with 
the provisions of the Resolution; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend athe grant set forth in Article II of this Agreement (the OTF Grant) to the 
Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995, as amended through December 2, 1997, with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this OTF Grant Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01, paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), 
(15), (16), (18) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c) (d), (e), (f), (g), (i) and (l) 
through (p),  6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The Gen-eral Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01,  paragraph (6,)and (8)  5.01 (a), and 6.02 
(f) thereof and the last use of such term in Section 5.01 (a) 
thereof, means the Trustee except that in Section 6.02, the term 
"Bank" shall also include the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity, means 
the Bank acting as trustee of the OTF;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the OTF Grant Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan" wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
OTF Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant Account, the account opened by the Bank on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the OTF 
Grant is credited;
Page  3
(vi)
the term "Guarantee Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the OTF Grant Agreement;
(vii)
the term "Guarantor", wherever used in the Gener-al Conditions, 
means the Republic of Colombia; and
(viii)a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (kp) in Section 
6.02, as follows:  "(q) an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the OTF Grant would 
exceed the resources available for disbursement from the OTF.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CFCs" means chlorofluorocarbons;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2 set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient out of 
the proceeds of the OTF Grant to an Investment Enterprise for the carrying out of an 
Investment Project;
(e)
"Halons" means ODS (as hereinafter defined) such as Halon 1211 and Halon 
1301;
(f)
"Investment Enterprise" means a Colombian producer, recycler or consumer 
of ODS (as hereinafter defined), to which the Recipient proposes to make a Grant;
(g)
"Investment Project" means a project designed to phase out the use of ODS 
(as hereinafter defined) in Colombia, to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise 
using the proceeds of a Grant;
(h)
"MCF" means methyl chloroform;
(i)
"Ministry" means the Ministerio de Medio Ambiente (Minsistry of the 
Environment) of the Republic of Colombia;
(j)
"ODS" means ozone depleting substances (such as CFCs, Halons and MCF, but 
only to the extent included in Groups I, II or III as defined in the Montreal 
Protocol);
(k)
"Project Management Report" means any of the reports referred to in 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
"Project Operational Manual" means the manual, dated September 13, 1999, 
detailing specific terms, procedures and conditions for the carrying out of the 
Project, ( including the procedures for identification, preparation, appraisal and 
implementation of Investment Projects, the Investment Project environmental impact 
avoidance and mitigation requirements), the criteria for eligibility of Investment 
Enterprises to carry out Investment Projects, the model of the contracts referred to 
in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the indicators for the monitoring 
of the progress of the Project, as such Manual may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Bank; and
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, a grant in the amount of 
eight million six  hundred fifty-two thousand Dollars ($8,652,000) (the OTF Grant).
Page  4
Section 2.02. The amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the OTF Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 3131, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient and the 
Republic of Colombia of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Bank shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose of the 
Project from the Executive Committee referred to in WHEREAS clause (C) of the Preamble 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient and Republicthe Republic of Colombia declare their 
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and, to this end, the Recipient and the Republic of Colombia, through the 
Ministry, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with the Project Operational Manual and with appropriate administrative and 
financial practices, as well as with due regard to ecological and environmental 
factors, and the Recipient shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.  In case of any conflict 
between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Project Operational Manual, 
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.02. (a) The Recipient undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Grants will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the Project 
Operational Manual.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations in 
relation to each Investment Project in such a manner as to: (i) protect the interests 
of the Bank, the Recipient and the Republic of Colombia; (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the OTF Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 
and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused to be carried out, by the Recipient with 
respect to the Project.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall, throughout the course of the Project:  (a) 
submit to the Bank reports on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
every six months, beginning with the report in JuneDecember 1999, such reports to be 
in form satisfactory to the Bank and prepared with the technical assistance of the 
Ministry; (b) supervise, with the technical assistance of the Ministry, the execution 
of each Investment Project; (c) submit a completion report to the Bank, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank and prepared in collaboration with the Ministry and the 
relevant Investment Enterprise, within six months after the completion of each 
Investment Project, detailing the results achieved and lessons learned with respect to 
the completed Investment Project in question; and (d) participate with the Bank and 
the Ministry in a mid-term review of the Project, to be held within twenty-four months 
after the Effective Date. The Republic of Colombia, through the Ministry, on its turn, 
shall promote the identification of Investment Projects and their preparation by 
Investment Enterprises, and take all action on its part as shall be convenient to 
enable the Recipient to comply with all of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  5
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project Management 
Reports, as the case may be, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the OTF Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditures or Project Management 
Reports, as the case may be, submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan, acceptable to the 
Bank, for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than 
June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the OTF Grant during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant during the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
Page  6
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
OTF Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The regulations or other documents governing the existence or operations 
of the Recipient shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect materially and adversely the operations of 
the Recipient or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
The Republic of Colombia, or any other authority having jurisdiction, 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Recipient 
or for the suspension of the Recipient’s operations.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. This Agreement will become effective upon its signature by all 
parties thereto.
Section 6.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the OTF Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representation; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director General of the Recipient, and the head of the 
UTOMinister of Environment of the Republic of Colombia, are designated as 
representatives of the Recipient and the Republic of Colombia, respectively, for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Agencia Colombiana de
Cooperación Internacional
Calle 26, 13-19
Piso 34
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
For the Republic of Colombia:
Ministerio del Medio Ambiente
Calle 37, 8-40
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
      248423 (MCI),
Washington, D.C.
       64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Santa Fé de Bogotá, Colombia, and in the District of Columbia, United 
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Juan Mayr
Authorized Representative
AGENCIA COLOMBIANA DE 
   COOPERACION INTERNACIONAL 
By /s/ Emilia Ruiz de Ramírez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Ttrustee of
   the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ Andrés Solimano
Director, Country Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
   Amount of the
OTF Grant Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, works and
   8,400,000
100%
consultants' services),
financed by Grants
under Part B of the
Project, which
qualify as
incremental costs
(2)
Consultants' services
     212,000
100%
(including auditors'
services) under Part 
Page  8
A of the Project
(3)
Operational costs under
40,000
100%
Part A of the Project
TOTAL
   8,652,000
2.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of: (i) items financed by a Grant unless such Grant has been made 
in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding $                    1,500,000, may be made in respect of Categories 
(1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures incurred after [December 
31, 1995].
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.04 of the General Conditions, 
no reallocation of funds shall be made between the funds under Category (1) and those 
under Categories (2) or (3) in the table above.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, if the Bank shall have 
determined at any time that any payments from the OTF Grant Account were used for an 
expenditure not eligible for financing under this Schedule or used in any manner 
contrary to the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank, for deposit in the OTF Grant Account, an 
amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof specified by the Bank.
4.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:
(a)
"incremental costs" means those costs (excluding import tariffs, duties 
or value-added taxes) deemed eligible for financing from the FundOTF, as set forth in 
the indicative list contained in the "Report of the Second Meeting of the Parties to 
the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer," London, June 27-29, 
1990 (UNEP/OzL. Pro. 2/3, Annex IV, pp. 42-44), reprinted as Bank Operational Policy 
10.21, Annex B, of November 1993, as such list may be amended from time to time by the 
Executive Committee. (Approval by the Executive Committee of an Investment Project, 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, signifies that the costs -- 
excluding import tariffs, duties or value-added taxes -- required to carry out said 
Investment Project are deemed "incremental costs" for purposes of this Schedule); and
(b)
"operational costs" means the costs incurred by the Recipient and the 
Ministry, in the carrying out of Part A of the Project, with office equipment and 
staff travel and per diems.
5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts that costing: (i) 
less than $2,000,000 equivalent in the case of goods and works not subject to Trustee 
prior review pursuant to Schedule 3, Section I, Part D.1, to this Agreement; or (ii) 
less than $50,000 equivalent in the case of consulting firms and less than $20,000 
equivalent in the case of individual consultants, if such services are not subject to 
prior review of the Bank pursuant to Schedule 3, Section I, Part D.1, and Section II, 
Part C.2, to this Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the OTG Grant Account of amounts to be deposited 
into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for 
Page  9
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the OTF Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the OTF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of $550,000 to be 
withdrawn from the OTF Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $200,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the amount of $1,500,000.
Page  10
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
OTF Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the OTF Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the OTG Grant minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the OTF Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all 
withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the OTF Grant 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the OTF Grant, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed $1,000,000. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in phasing out ODS use in Colombia 
within the framework of the Montreal Protocol.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient, the Republic of Colombia and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:
Technical Assistance
Page  11
Provision of technical assistance and operational support for the preparation, 
appraisal, administration and supervision of Investment Projects, and for the 
financial management of the Project (including audits thereof).
Part B:
ODS Phase-out Grant Line
Provision of financing, in the form of Grants, for carrying out Investment 
Projects.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, and in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $ 2,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods  manufactured in the territory of the Republic of 
Colombia.                                                                                               
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Commercial Practices
Except for proprietary goods covered by paragraph 12 below, goods and works 
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package may 
be procured by an Investment Enterprise under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelinescommercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Direct Contracting
Proprietary goods obtainable from only one source may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to each contract procured under Part B of this 
Section.
Page  12
(b)
With respect to any contract procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Part C.2 above:
(i)
the Recipient shall, prior to the execution by an Investment 
Enterprise of any such contract, provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract: and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications and Individual Consultants
Technical assistance under Part A of the Project, to be provided by consultants 
selected and hired by the Recipient or the Ministry,  and estimated to cost $50,000 
equivalent or less per contract, mayshall be procured under contracts awarded: (a) in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(consultants' qualifications); or (b) to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines if the 
corresponding tasks meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines..
2.
Commercial Practices
Technical assistance, under Part B of the Project, to be provided by consultants 
selected and hired by an Investment Enterprise, in connection with the carrying out of 
an Investment Project to be financed under Part B of the Project, may shall be 
procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants (for Part A of the Project) of any requests 
for proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under Part A of the 
Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services for Part A of the Project shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
Page  13
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for such contractthe respective 
assignments shall be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 4
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Grants
1.
(a)
Grants shall be made solely for Investment Projects.
(b)
Grants shall be denominated in Dollars.
(c)
Grants shall be in an amount up to 100% of the reasonable expenditures 
(excluding import tariffs, duties and value-added taxes) incurred by an Investment 
Enterprise in carrying out an Investment Project.  If a Grant is for less than 100% of 
such expenditures, the remainder of the funds needed to cover such expenditures shall 
be provided by the Investment Enterprise in question.  In all cases, the Investment 
Enterprise shall be responsible for payment, out of its own non-Grant proceeds, of 
said import tariffs, duties and value-added taxes.
2.
No expenditures for goods, works or consultants' services required for an 
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the OTF 
Grant unless: (a) the Investment Project shall have been approved received preliminary 
approval from by the Executive Committee, after the relevant application for such 
approval shall have been processed in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Operational Manual pursuant to paragraph 6 of this Schedule, unless the Investment 
Project shall have also received final approval from the Trustee pursuant to paragraph 
8 of this Schedule ; and (b) the written contract referred to in paragraph 73 of this 
Schedule shall havehas been entered into by the Recipient and the Investment 
Enterprise.
3.
To obtain a Grant for an Investment Project, an Investment Enterprise shall:
(a)
with assistance from the Recipient and UTO, if requested, carry out 
pre-investment studies and prepare a project document and executive project summary 
for the Investment Project, all as set forth in the Project Operational Manual;
(b)
(i) present said project document and executive project summary to UTO; 
and, (ii) to the  Recipient, if and when UTO shall have given notice to the Investment 
Enterprise, of UTO’s approval of the project document and summary (as originally 
presented to, or with the changes thereto requested by, UTO), so that the Recipient 
may begin the process of seeking Executive Committee preliminary approval of the 
Investment Project; and
(c)
require that the Investment Enterprise shall (i) comply with all relevant 
Colombian environmental laws and regulations including all environmental regulations 
of Colombian Territorial Entities (as determined by the Colombian Constitution) with 
respect to its activities, including with respect to the Investment Project; (ii) 
carry out all Investment Project environmental impact avoidance and mitigation 
measures required pursuant to the terms of the Project Operational Manual; (iii) not 
use on its own account, sell or otherwise transfer for use by another party any 
ODS-using equipment which is replaced or made redundant as a result of the Investment 
Project; and (iv) not resume use of ODS-using technology which is replaced or made 
redundant as a result of the Investment Project;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank or the 
Ministry, if the Bank or the Republic of Colombia shall so request, such goods and the 
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
require that:  (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
Page  14
(f)
obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request relating 
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project 
(including information required by the Recipient and the Republic of Colombia to 
permit compliance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement, with the prior review 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and with Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of the 
General Conditions);
(g)
require the Investment Enterprise to operate and maintain at all times 
any facilities relevant to the Investment Project, and, promptly as needed, to make or 
cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof; and
(h)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Grant upon failure by the Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Recipient. 
