Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 17111 - GUB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 8.6 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
October 21, 1997
Human Development II
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(July 1997)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (FCFA)
US$ 1.0 = 580 FCFA
FISCAL YEAR
Government Fiscal Year:       January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGEOPPE ......        Agency for Employment Creation
AfDB ......           African Development Bank
CSA ......            Health Center Type A
CSB ......            Health Center Type B
DAF ......            Direcgao de Administraqao Finan ao (Directorate of Administration and Finance)
DGPC ......           Direcgao Geral de Planificagdo e Cooperaqdo (General Directorate of Planning and Cooperation)
DGSP ......           Direcgdo Geral de Sazide Publica (General Directorate of Public Health)
DRH ......            DirecoVdo de Recursos Humanos (Directorate of Human Resources)
GOGB ......           Govemment of Guinea-Bissau
HIS ......            Health Information System
HMDP ......           Health Manpower Development Plan
HN3A ......           Third of August National Hospital
HNSM ......           Simao Mendes National Hospital
IAPSO ..        .... Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (a U.N. agency)
IDA ...... International Development Association
IEC ......            Information, Education and Communication
MINNE ..        .... Ministry of National Education
MOPH ......           Ministry of Public Health
NHDP ......           National Health Development Program
NMS ......            National Medical School
PCU ......            Program Coordinating Unit
PHC ......            Primary Health Care
PIP ......            Public Investment Program
PPF .Project Preparation Facility
P Y .................................... .P o e t Y a
PY ........Project Year
SAF .......................... Social Action Fund
SBD .......................... Standard Bidding Documents
SCC ..........................     Systematic Client Consultation
SIP .......................... Sector Investment Program
SOE ..........................     Statement of Expenditures
SOLIDAMI ....................... Solidarity and Friendship Institution
STIs ..........................     Sexually Transmitted Infections
USBs ..........................   Basic Health Units
VHU ..........................    Village Health Units
Vice President ..............   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director ..............   Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager ..............  Ok Pannenborg
Task Team Leader ..............   Tonia Marek
Task Team Assistants .............. Resident Mission: Marie-Madeleine Ndaw
Headquarters:   Rudi Chevannes



Guinea-Bissau
National Health Development Program
CONTENTS
Project Financing Data .......................................................1I
Block 1: Project Description .......................................................2
1.  Project development objectives ........................                       ...............................2
2.  Project components ........................................................2
3.  Benefits and target population ........................................................2
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................2
Block 2:  Project Rationale .......................................................4
5.  CAS objective(s) supported by the project ........................................................4
6.  Main sector issues and Government strategy ....................................................4
7.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..................                         4
8.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .................                        ................6
9.   Major related projects financed by the Bank ..............................................-.6
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .........................................7
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .......................................7
12. Value added of Bank support .............................................7
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments ............................................8
13. Economic Assessment .........8....................................8
14. Financial Assessment .............................................9
15. Technical Assessment .............................................                                              10
16. Institutional Assessment .................                                                                      10
17. Social Assessment ............................................. 10
18. Environmental Assessment .............................................                                         10
19. Participatory Approach ............................................. I 1
20. Sustainability .............................................11 
21. Critical Risks ............................................. 11
22. Possible Controversial Aspects .............................................                                   12
Block 4:  Main Credit conditions ............................................. 12
23. Board and Effectiveness Conditions .............................................                               12
24. Other .............................................                                                             13
Block 5:  Compliance with Bank Policies ............................................. 13
List of Annexes
Annex 1A: Project Design Summary
Annex 1 B: Letter of Health Sector Development Policy
Annex 2:  Detailed Program Description
Annex 3:  Estimated Project costs
Annex 4:  Economic Analysis
Annex 5:  Financial summary
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:  Documents in Project file
Annex 9:  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Guinea-Bissau at a Glance
Map (IBRD-272 16)



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATiONAL DEVELoPMENT ASSoCIATION
Africa Regional Office
AFC 14
Project Apprail Document
Guinea-Bissau
National Health Developnent Program
Date: October21, 1997                                               [] Daft       [X] Final
Task Manager: Tonia Marek                         Country Director: Mahmood A. Ayub
Project ID: GW-PE-35688                           Sector: Population, Health and Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  PTI:     [XI Yes          [1 No
Project Financing Data              []  Lo       [X] Credit    [] Gatee   []  Otber Speclfi
For Credits/Others:
Amount: USS  1.7m/SDRS.6m
~~~~~........... .................  _................... .............................
Proposed Terms:                      [X ] Multicurrency     [ ]  Single currency
Grace period (yeas): 10         [X1  Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed         [J    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0%
Service charge: 0.75%
1, .....................................................................................................................................
Financing plan (USSm):
Source                            Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                               13.0                               13.0
Communities                                              4.5                -               4.5
IDA                                                      4.0                7.7             11.7
Netherlands                                              1.4                3.4              4.8
African Development Bank                                 3.4               10.7             14.1
France                                                   3.0                 -              3.0
European Union                                           6.9                -               6.9
Portugal                                                 --                 0.1             0.1
NGOs, WHO, and others                                    2.8                5.2              8.0
Total                             39.0               27.1            66.1
Borrower: Republi ofGuinea-Bissau
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsibl agency: Ministry of Public Health (MOPH)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/USSM):   1998   1999    2000    2001       2002     2003    Total
Annual  0.75      2.25     2.70     2.45     1.95     1.60     11.7
Cumulative   0.75     3.00     5.70     8.15    10.10     11.7
For Guarates:                                 []   Partial Credit    [] Partial risk
N.A.
Tenns.of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 2
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                   Project Title: National Health Development Program
Financing available without guarantee?: N.A.          [j   Yes                [    No
Expected effectiveness date: March 02, 1998                        Closing date: December 31, 2003
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I-A for key performance indicators):
The overall objective of the National Health Development Program (NHDP) is to improve the health status and well-
being of the population, particularly of women and children, through a strengthening at all levels of the national health
system, including health services and facilities, and management structures and processes. Specific objectives are (i) to
increase the use and effective coverage of primary health care services and referral centers; (ii) to strengthen the
institutional capacity at all levels; (iii) to improve the quality and the management of human resources; and (iv) to
reinforce intersectoral coordination and action in health-related activities in order to promote better health among the
population.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown in local and
foreign expenditures):
Component                             Category                    Cost Incl.       % of Total
Contingencies (US$M)
(1) Utilization and coverage of primary    Institutional, physical                  37.5               57
health care centers and referral centers
(2) Strengthening of institutional capacity at   Management, institutional          12.8               19
all levels (central, regional and local)
(3) Management and development of human   Institutional, policy                     12.6               19
resources
(4) Promotion of better health             Institutional, information                3.2               5
Total          66.1               100
---- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- ---- --- --- ---. _   ..............  ..... ... ....... . . . . . .
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The National Health Development Program (supported by the IDA credit) will increase the coverage and
quality of health services in the country, will improve equity in access to the services, will ensure a shift. of resources
toward rural areas, and will provide a minimum package of health care. The main beneficiaries of improved health
facilities will be women and children through MCH programs. The incorporated AIDS prevention aspects of the
Program will help slow the spread of HIV infection and alleviate the burden of HIV/AIDS on individuals, families and
the nation. The Program will help improve the effectiveness of family planning activities through increased availability
of services, better training and supervision, and through regular monitoring of impact indicators. It will also generate
important external benefits by assisting the MOPH in the coordination and implementation of projects undertaken by all
donors. Finally, the Program will assist in increasing the transparency and efficiency of the sector's budgetary process
by moving virtually all off-budget health expenditures into the budget.
Target population. The beneficiaries of the current basic health services are women and children. The Program is
aimed at strengthening the health system, particularly for the poorer segments of the population. The focus on basic and
preventive care, emphasized by the National Health Development Program, ensures that components aimed at improving
pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, and health staff training will reach the poor. Improved services to the poor respond to
the human resource development and poverty alleviation objectives of the Government.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 3
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                              Project Title: National Health Development Program
…-….----
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Six years
Executing agency: Ministry of Public Health (MOPH)
Project management: The MOPH, through its directorates and line agencies, will have overall responsibility for the
management of all program activities. See Annex 2 for the implementation arrangements for each component and sub-
component. The General Directorate of Public Health (DirecqJo Geral da Sazude Puiblica - DGSP) and its various
directorates, the Directorate of Human Resources (DirecqJo de Recursos Humanos - DRH), regional health teams, health
centers, referral centers and specialized institutions will be responsible for all operational aspects of the program. The
General Directorate of Planning and Cooperation (Direc,co Geral de Planificaado e Coopera,do - DGPC)] and its
various directorates will be responsible for planning, monitoring and evaluation, administrative and financial
management, and the coordination of external assistance. The DGPC will be strengthened with a public health specialist,
a health economist, an expert in accounting and financial management, and a program manager. The Program manager
in particular will assist the Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs (DAF) in DGPC to ensure that everything
is done by the responsible directorates of MOPH to comply with the requirements of all donors regarding procurement,
disbursements, accounts, audits, progress reports, and annual and mid-term reviews. The role of each directorate within
the MOPH in the implementation of the program, and the relationships between them, will be detailed in the Program
Implementation Manual under preparation. The finalization of the Program Implementation Manual is a condition of
credit effectiveness.
Project oversight: Policy guidance and coordination between the two General Directorates of the MOPH will be
provided by the Minister. In addition, a Management Committee (Comite de Gestdo) consisting of the two Director
Generals and others will participate in program planning and monitoring. This committee will approve the annual
programs, review progress in all program activities, and monitor performance indicators.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The DAF (Direc,co de Administra,co e Finanqas) in
the DGPC will be responsible for program administrative and financial management and reporting, including
arrangements for audits, following systems and procedures acceptable to IDA. Records will be kept for all program-
related expenditures and financing following normal budgetary procedures. A special account for the IDA credit will be
opened and maintained with a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA; it will be managed by the DAF and the Program
manager. An independent auditor acceptable to IDA will audit the use of all IDA funds applied in financing the program,
including the IDA special account and statements of expenditures. Audit reports will be submitted no later than six
months after the end of the financial year. The auditor's terms of reference were agreed upon with IDA during
negotiations, and the appointment of the auditor will be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit. Under the
program, the DAF will be strengthened by the long-term technical assistance of an expert in accounting and financial
management in order to appropriately maintain the program accounts, including those of the IDA credit.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Under the overall guidance of the Management Committee, the
monitoring and evaluation of the program will be the shared responsibility of the MOPH directorates, with the particular
involvement of the Directorate of Planning (Direc,do de Planifica,cao - DP) in DGPC and its Division of Information
and Statistics (Servi,o de Informa,ao e Estatistica - SIE) and of the Epidemiology Department (Epidemiologia) in
DGSP. As the National Health Development Program (NHDP) shifts from a project-based program to a multiple-activity
program, centered around unifying objectives and specific activity lines, supervision processes will also be undertaken
according to these integrated activities. Supervision missions by donors, annual progress reviews, and the mid-term
review will be organized so as to minimize their demand on the already scarce work force of the MOPH. Monitoring
procedures and program progress reports will focus on progress in and impact of the implementation of the NHDP,
measured against specific targets (see indicators in Annex 1-A) and actions set in the two-year rolling plans and detailed
implementation programs, all of which will be reviewed and revised each year during the annual review throughout the
life of the program. General progress of the program will be measured against a list of key indicators, which are included
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 4
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                             Project Title: National Health Development Program
in the Program Design Summary (Annex 1-A), the Letter of Health Sector Development Policy (Annex 1-B), the NHDP
itself and the Implementation Plan in the Program Implementation Manual. The monitoring and evaluation of some of
those indicators will be conducted through specific surveys (e.g., contraceptive prevalence surveys) and beneficiary
assessments. In addition, each year the MOPH will update the two-year rolling plan and will prepare the work programs
and the investmnent and recurrent budgets for the next year and discuss them with the donors. Following these
discussions, donors will express their expected commitments to the various program components for the following year,
and IDA funds will be reallocated to finance any gaps in priority areas. At end June 2000, a midterm review of the
Program will be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and monitoring indicators acceptable to IDA and other
major donors. In addition, the MOPH will submit to IDA and other donors simple, agreed-upon, semi-annual progress
reports summarizing the status of each component and the degree of compliance with donor covenants and agreements.
The format of these reports will be designed to fulfill the MOPH needs for summary information for decision making and
will also be adapted to satisfy IDA's and other donors' reporting requirements. Within six months of the closing of the
IDA credit, an Implementation Completion Report will be prepared by IDA, with MOPH contributing its own evaluation
of the Program.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objectives supported by the project: to assist    Document number and date of latest CAS discussion:
Government in stepping up reforms and focusing on    No. 16568-GUB
poverty reduction, in particular through accelerating  June 10, 1997.
economic growth and shifting resources to rural areas and
to human resource development.
IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to Guinea-Bissau is structured around the following main elements:
promotion of macroeconomic stability, development of human resources, support to private sector development, and
reduction of the debt burden. The development of human resources involves providing assistance to education and health
to improve and expand services, with a focus on primary services delivery and rural areas, aiming to decrease extreme
poverty and to improve the situation of women, and promoting the involvement of non-government entities in service
delivery. IDA operations will also emphasize sectoral reforms to improve the adequacy of the relevant policy
framework, support local capacity building and utilization, involve the participation of beneficiaries and stakeholders in
program design and implementation, and encourage donor coordination. Economic growth is fundamental to poverty
reduction in Guinea-Bissau because the country is too poor to rely only on redistributive policies for sustained poverty
reduction. How growth is achieved will also affect poverty. In Guinea-Bissau, a poverty reducing growth pattern will
involve a shift of resources and opportunities from urban areas to rural areas where the poorest populations live. The
programs required to implement this strategy need considerable external financial support and a strong Government
commitment. The National Health Development Program (NHDP) is a central part of this assistance strategy. It is also
consistent with IDA's human resources development and poverty alleviation objectives in the Sahel, as well as with its
AIDS prevention strategy. Finally, the program would provide a framework for enhanced donor coordination for the
health sector.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background on morbidity and mortality: Guinea-Bissau's population of 1.1 million has very high rates of mortality
and morbidity, even by African standards. Infant mortality is estimated at about 138 per thousand live births, compared
to 92 for Sub-Saharan Africa. Child mortality under 5 years of age is estimated at over 240 per thousand. Immunization
levels are low, with only 45% of children immunized against DPT, and 30% completely vaccinated by their first
birthday. Sanitation, including basic latrines, is available to less than one third of the population. Malaria is the main
cause of recorded morbidity and the leading cause of infant deaths. Severe diarrhea is the second cause of infant deaths.
The prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases estimated at 25% among adults. Prevalence of HIV2 among adults is
about 10%, the highest in the world (the FlVI epidemic is much more recent). It is estimated that in the capital city 12 %
of women use contraception, while this rate is 5% in secondary cities and only 1% in rural areas. A resurgence of
tuberculosis has also been noted in Guinea-Bissau.
Forn _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 5
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                             Project Title: National Health Development Program
Main Sector Issues: Four major issues need to be addressed to improve the performance of the health sector:
* First, a weak sector policy framework and inadequate implementation programming and execution capability.
* Second, inadequate health manpower planning, development, deployment and management, including the lack of
supervision. The number, composition and uneven geographical distribution of health personnel, as well as the lack of
an incentive system, are growing concerns. There is a serious shortage of midwives country-wide, a deficit of
physicians in the regions, and a surplus of physicians in the capital.
* Third, poor financial resource allocation and management. The present level of funding is inadequate to sustain even
minimal health care for the highest priority health problems. Moreover, the allocation of available resources among
health facilities and people throughout the country (with relatively too much money spent on drugs for the national
hospitals and not enough for the regions) is not appropriate.
* Fourth, limited revenue raising or cost-recovery.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
During preparation of the NHDP several urgent decisions were considered as prerequisites to a successful
implementation of the program. Some of these decisions were taken in March 1997 (see details in section 11), but the
question of low-level salaries and their late payment still need to be addressed in the broader context of civil service
reform and structural adjustment. Nonetheless, the program proposes some incentives for health personnel. The major
donors and technical agencies in the country agree with the MOPH that the health services system needs to be
strengthened, placing a strong focus on effective coverage of the population with a package of high impact, cost-effective
basic level services, as stated in the Letter of Health Sector Development Policy (Annex 1-B). The NHDP, described in
more detail in Annex 2, addresses the following four major health sector issues:
(1) Weak sector policy framework, inadequate implementation programming and execution capability.
The Sector Investment Program (SIP) provides more rational sector-wide programming. The annual
programming will also allow for monitoring of outcomes and better utilization of resources. The SIP
approach will foster a more effective use of donor funding and a better coordination of planning and
management resources (financial and human). At the central level, the NHDP will improve programn
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, supervision, administration and financial management,
including the development of an Integrated Health Sector Information System, and the procurement and
distribution of essential drugs, with special emphasis on the preparation and monitoring of annual work
programs and budgets (expected to be a rolling two-year plan within a defined longer-term framework of five
years). At the regional level, the NHDP will enable health services and facilities to function properly
following the decentralization of health care services and their management.
(2) Inadequate health-staff planning and management. During the preparation of the NHDP, the MOPH
developed a detailed staff deployment plan. The Health-Staff Development Program is based on health
center mapping, the minimum package of activities by level, quality of care, and available resources (in
terms of salaries). This planning exercise led to the development of personnel norms (number and type of
personnel needed by level of infrastructure). The main priorities of the NHDP in this domain are
(i) redistribution of personnel; (ii) improvement in working conditions; (iii) better training, more focused on
quality than quantity; (iv) strengthening of the MOPH Department of Human Resources capacity as well as
computerization of the health manpower information system. Of the approximately 2250 personnel working
for the MOPH in 1996, around 20% will leave the MOPH (including voluntary departees) during the Plan
period, and the rest will be redeployed and trained. Emphasis will be placed on providing sufficient well-
trained nurses and midwives for health centers and regional hospitals. The new emphasis on integrated
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 6
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                               Project Title: National Health Development Program
supervision and focus on results, which the NHDP is introducing should improve personnel motivation and
performance.
(3) Poor financial resource allocation and management. the NHDP plans to address this issue by containing
costs and increasing value for money as follows:
* the NHDP's budget will ensure that public health resources shift from curative to preventive care by
increasing the share of financial resources going to the regional levels (for primary and some secondary
care) from 25% to 53%;
* A cost-effective package of health services has been designed (through the Minimum Package of Health
Services) as the building block for the whole NHDP. An analysis of the NHDP budget shows it is well
within the recommended norm for Africa (according to the World Bank's strategy paper "Better Health for
Africa") for this package of basic services: basic services will cost US$4.50/person/year for primary care,
regional hospitals and district teams. If this figure is adjusted for the relatively low salary levels in
Guinea-Bissau, the NHDP would cost US$6.75/person/year, not too far below the US$8.15 figure for Sub-
Saharan Africa. This basic minimum package of cost-effective integrated preventive and curative health
services will be provided in health centers accessible to a majority of the population, with community
outreach (through the Basic Health Units, USB) and with effective support and supervision by regional
health (equivalent to health district) teamns. Central support and supervision, now provided through
national programs (e.g., AIDS, maternal and child care, and family planning), will be coordinated at the
national level and integrated at the regional and peripheral levels.
* The national hospital, leaving primary care to the improved primary care facilities, will become more
efficient. For example, in the Autonomous Sector of Bissau (the health district covering the capital city,
with an expected population of 300,000 by the year 2000), more health centers will be built and staffed to
ensure that the national hospital, Simao Mendes will gradually receive more referred cases and less
primary care cases.
* More effective use of donor funding: before the development of the NHDP, the MOPH could keep proper
account of health expenditures, because many of the health-related budgets were managed by donors or
project units outside the MOPH. It was estimated that in 1996 alone about US$3 million were invested in
the country without being included in the public investment program (PIP). This would amount to an
unaccounted $15 million over the five year PIP! The NHDP will establish a common budget, thereby
allowing the MOPH to better gauge and use available resources, while reducing reporting requirements.
(4) Limited revenue raising or cost-recovery. Although one district has been implementing the Bamako
Initiative since 1989 on a pilot basis, no further action was taken until recently (March 1997) to broaden this
experience. In March 1997, the Council of Ministers finally approved texts for the implementation of the
Bamako Initiative. The NHDP will implement cost-recovery at the health center level through the Baamako
Initiative system with local community committees. A text was also adopted in March 1997 establishing a
cost-recovery system which will be implemented at the hospital level.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The SIP approach was selected over a regular investment project approach because (i) the MOPH has exhibited
leadership and ownership through its recent preparation of a National Health Development Program (NHDP); (ii) the
country is small with one major hospital, so a sectoral program approach is not unduly complicated; (iii) other donors
have expressed interest in collaborating with the Government and IDA on the SIP to ensure better coordination; this
donor involvement is an essential requirement for the, sectoral approach; and (iv) the recent CAS strongly recommended
this approach which will allow for better use of scarce human and financial resources. Although MOPH capacity has
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 7
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                Project Title: National Health Development Program
improved significantly over the last three years, it is still weak, and the SIP approach will further reinforce the capacity
of current MOPH services. This will be an improvement on the present project management which is separate from the
MOPH and provides it with limited institutional reinforcement in terms of management. In addition, the construction
and rehabilitation of health facilities financed by the IDA credit (and possibly by other donors) will be carried out by
AGEOPPE, an implementing agency for civil works. Procurement will be handled by the strengthened procurement unit
(DAF) in DC-PC with the assistance of the Program manager. In order to reduce the workload of DAF, the procurement
of imported equipment (including vehicles) may be done through IAPSO (UN Inter-Agency Procurement Services
Office), and procurement of drugs will be done through UNIPAC or another specialized procurement agency. Private
contractors and consultants (under contracts with AGEOPPE) will execute the construction and rehabilitation of
infrastructures. The private sector will also be involved in the social marketing of condoms and mosquito nets.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned).
IDA's involvement in the health sector in Guinea-Bissau is relatively recent. It began with the Population, Health and
Nutrition (PHN) Project (Cr. 1800-GUB for US$4.2 million equivalent, approved in May 1987 and closed in December
1991). This project's objectives were to improve the institutional capabilities of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH)
in planning, management and finance, and to strengthen the delivery of health and family planning services at the
periphery. The multi-sector Social and Infrastructure Relief Project (SIRP) (Cr. 2020-GUB for US$5.0 million
equivalent, approved in 1989 and closed in June 1993) had a health component which built on the first project in
providing essential inputs and improving physical infrastructures.  The ongoing Social Sector Project (SSP)
(Cr. 2465-GUB for US$8.8 million equivalent, approved in 1993 and scheduled to close on December 31, 1997), whose
objective is to assist the Government in improving the delivery and quality of primary health care for a wider base of the
population, has both a social action fund and a major health component. That component includes the rehabilitation and
equipment of health centers and health posts, the upgrading and training of health professionals, and inputs to coordinate
and strengthen the delivery of IEC activities. These projects have given IDA the experience to act as a catalyst in helping
coordinate donor involvement, influencing sector policies, and supporting institutional development in the sector.
In its final evaluation, the first IDA operation in the health sector, the PHN Project, was deemed overly ambitious in its
attempt to address a wide array of problems affecting the health sector, particularly in light of the limited capacity of the
country. In a number of areas it failed to meet the original project objectives. OED/PCR ratings were "unsatisfactory"
for outcome, "unlikely" for sustainability and "negligible" for institutional development. The project did, however,
develop elements of an appropriate framework for future efforts which should have lasting effects on the health sector
including: beginning the institutionalization of the policy and practice of cost-recovery in the sector; initiating a model
for supervising rural health services which has contributed to strengthening the regional health systems management
process; improving drug system management; and undertaking policy studies in family planning and nutrition, as well as
the first demographic health survey (DHS) in the country which will contribute to strengthening the health data base. At
its close, the PHN project was completely disbursed. The implementation of the Social and Infrastructure Relief Project
has been satisfactory; it has opened new perspectives for private sector involvement in a number of sectors including
health. OED/PCR ratings were "satisfactory" for the outcome, "uncertain" for sustainability and "substantial" for
institutional development. The Social Sector Project had a slow start, but is now being implemented satisfactorily.
However, there are still problems with intersectoral coordination (particularly for the IEC component) and with the
assignment of health personnel trained under the project. Also, the social fund component suffers from a lack of
experienced NGOs and associations, and there is a need for a preselection and training of existing NGOs and
associations. For that project, both the IP and the DO ratings are "Satisfactory". Typically, projects in the health sector
have experienced problems resulting from limited implementation capabilities and insufficient local funds, as well as
lack of coordination among donors.
Among other donors, UNFPA has an ongoing program to improve the utilization of family planning services. UNICEF
has promoted the Bamako Initiative. AfDB is planning to participate in the financing of the NHDP. Denmark has
supported primary health care in the regions of Biombo and Oio. France finances primary health care in the region of
Oio and the proposed Mansoa hospital; it is interested in increasing its support for the sector within the NHDP. The
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 8
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                              Project Title: National Health Development Program
Netherlands have put a major emphasis on community-based health care and support for the management capacity of the
regional health teams in four regions (Tombali, Quinara, Cacheu and S.Domingos). They have also provided financing
for an essential drugs component for those four regions, which includes fellowships and technical assistance. Finally
they have offered support for the creation of the National Health School, and they are very interested in financing the
NHDP. Sweden has financed MCH and FP services and provided support for the National Public Health Laboratory. In
addition to supporting some vertical programs, WHO has supported management strengthening at regional levels and
provided financing for the medical faculty.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Implementation Completion Reports on IDA projects in the health sector in Guinea-Bissau list a number of lessons
learned from those completed operations. These are related to (i) MOPH's weak implementation capacity (including the
importance of proper component selection and preparation, the need to tailor technical assistance to the borrower's
absorptive capacity and to supervise it closely, and the importance of having project management units helping in
institution building and of having national counterparts involved in project preparation and start-up activities with some
continuity in staffing); (ii) the importance of having counterpart funds available on a timely basis; and (iii) adequate
coordination among donors. Lessons learned from health project experiences elsewhere indicate that it is possible to
improve overall efficiency by program integration, and that a basic package of cost-effective health services (requiring
the presence at the base level of a number of critical elements including, inter alia, trained personnel, essential drugs, and
support from the next levels) can contribute to improving the health status of the population. All these lessons have been
taken into account in the design of the National Health Development Program, with its emphasis on institutional the
integration of health services, the need for a better allocation of human and fnancial resources within the sector,
appropriate technical assistance and a better coordination among donors. Flexibility on the part of IDA as to yearly
programming of resources for the health sector to better accomplish the program's objectives and to contribute to a
longer term and broader view of the sector's support and development will be especially important under the NHDP. In
addition to being more responsive to borrower needs, it will also contribute to improved donor coordination.
1 1. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership-:
The MOPH has been seriously preparing the National Health Development Program since 1995 and has recently made
some strategic appointments for higher level positions in MOPH. In March 1997, the Council of Ministers approved the
following two measures:
(a) the text creating the statutes of a national health school (combining the existing medical school, paramedical school
and on-the-job training program in order to maximize use of resources);
(b) all the texts for the implementation of a cost-recovery system for drugs and services through the Bamako Initiative
system at the health center level.
In addition, the Government has improved the availability of counterpart funds for the ongoing Social Sector Project (the
first deposit requested for 1997 of about US$42,000 was made in April 1997, as recommended by the last supervision
mission).
The documents presented by the NHDP at the Health Sector Round Table organized by the MOPH in June 1997, were
well-prepared and thorough, reflecting a high level of political commitment to the work as did the fact that the President
of the Republic himself closed the workshop.
12. Value added of Bank support:
The preparation of the NHDP was complemented by two other Bank instruments, namely the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) and the Public Expenditure Review (PER), which helped to integrate the NHDP more systematically into
the overall country strategy. The Government requested the Bank's technical advice in designing its National Health
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 9
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                               Project Title: National Health Development Program
Development Program. Joint missions with other major donors, led by the Bank, have provided support to the sector-
wide approach chosen by Government, and these multi-donor missions have worked in complete partnership with MOPH
providing them with necessary technical inputs. The Bank has encouraged other donors to join into the program as a
guarantee for quality and transparency of the process.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic         [    Cost-Benefit Analysis:                  [X] Cost Effectiveness   [XI Other
Assessment                                                             Analysis:
Others:
* distribution between capital and recurrent costs and;
* best practices (see Annex 4).
A partial cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken (see below). The economic analysis is currently based on the "best
practice" analysis.
a) Cost-effectiveness
A partial cost-effectiveness analysis (see Annex 4) was undertaken and will be monitored during the NHDP
implementation. The analysis is based on the present situation characterized by a low current utilization rate of
services, a population growth rate of 2.1 percent and an utilization rate increase of health services of 50% over the
1997-2002 period. Under these assumptions, the cost per inhabitant will increase slowly from around US$4 to
US$4.6 over the program period, although an increase in effectiveness is expected to be achieved. During the period,
the cost per unit of activity (measured by the number of new cases treated in the District) is expected to decrease
from around US$14.5 (frequency rate of 0.275 new cases/inhabitant/year) to around US$11.8 (frequency rate of
0.375 new cases/inhabitant/year).
In the case of a theoretical "good" utilization rate of services (0.5 new cases/inhabitant/year, which is a long term
objective), compared to the norm which the Bank uses in "Better Health in Africa" (BHA), the NHDP costs for
primary care services to be provided seem to be within acceptable levels. The NHDP points to a cost of
US$4.49/person/year which compares favorably to US$8.1 5/person/year for BHA. The difference is primarily due to
the relatively low salaries in Guinea-Bissau. The average civil service wage in Guinea-Bissau is about one sixth of
the West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) average. For comparison purposes, if the salary
component of the NHDP is multiplied by 6, the NHDP cost/person/year would reach US$6.75, much closer to the
BHA norm.
The overall NHDP budget (including tertiary care and all central level expenses) represents about $12/person/year
(which remains much below the $14 for sub-Saharan Africa - in 1990 dollars)
b) Fiscal impact
The NHDP recurrent costs are estimated to increase by 5% annually over the estimated 1996 total health sector
recurrent expenditures (US$2.5 million). In terms of capital expenditures, an increase in the allocation of resources is
also expected to take place. While during the period 1994-96 the health sector has represented, on average, about 12
percent of the PIP, for the period 1998-2002 this share is projected to move to about 15 percent.
c) Linkage to PER, PFP and CAS:
The Public Expenditures Review in the health sector (World Bank Report No. 14903-GUB, November 1996)
showed that the sectoral issues identified (ref. to Block 2, section 7) were the ones to be tackled. In addition, the
Form _n _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 10
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                               Project Truie: National HeaMl Development Program
PER indicated that up to then the MOPH budget was not based on an analytical assessment of needs nor of their
relative priorities. This is what the NHDP aims at achieving by changing the focus from curative to preventive
care. The NHDP proposes reallocating resources so that the share of the health sector budget going to primary
care and first referral centers will increase from 25% to 53%. The increased emphasis on primary care will be
associated with better services to the poor, mainly because of the emphasis on service delivery at the regional
level. The PER also indicated that about 60% of investments in 1994 went to foreign technical assistance. This
is a situation the NHDP is trying to remedy by (i) identifying the real needs for T.A. and defining terms of
reference that will be submitted to donors (Year 1 of the NHDP, T.A. represents 29% of the total budget, but it
decreases to 14% in Year 5); and by (ii) providing a unique consolidated sectoral program so that donors can
complement each other. The risk is that certain donors will continue to invest heavily in the health sector but
only for T.A. and activities which are not part of the NHDP (its own research agenda, for example). For example,
one donor spends about US$2.5 million/year on just the hospital of Canchungo. The MOPH is aware of this
problem and will discuss it with donors to correct this less than optimal approach to country assistance.
(i) The recently negotiated Policy Framework Paper (1997-99) indicates that health expenditures as a share of the
Government current budget, excluding interest payments, should be maintained at 11% over the project
implementation period. In the recent past, the share of government current expenditures spent on the health
sector has ranged between 10 and 10.5 percent. Provided the Government meets this commitment, resources will
be sufficient to meet the recurrent spending requirements of the NHDP.
(ii) The NHDP is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of putting in place policies and
programs to reduce poverty and to improve the unacceptably poor indicators of social development. Moreover, as
underlined in the CAS, it emphasizes improved access to better quality of health services, especially to women,
the poor and to the rural areas.
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5)    [NPV: N/A; FRR: N/A (not a revenue earning project)]
* The total cost of the five-year NHDP is estimated at US$66.1 million, of which 62% for investment costs and 38% for
recurrent costs.
* The Government budget would finance US$13 million (19% of the total), or US$2.5 million per year, which is the
amount of financing actually provided by Government in the last few years for the MOPH recurrent budget. Most of
the domestic contribution originated from counterpart funds generated from balance of payment support.
* Beneficiaries would contribute US$4.5 million (7%) and other donors would finance US$36.9 million (56%).
* As a lender of last resort, IDA would finance US$11.7 million (18% of the total NHDP budget).
* For the Government to be able to provide its contribution, the proportion of its recurrent budget dedicated to health
should be about 1 1%, a slight increase compared to the 10%-10.5% range of the last few years. As in the past, the bulk
of the financing would continue to come from donors. Historically, the largest proportion of external funding has been
spent on investment (about 50-60%), technical assistance (10-15%) and training (about 5%), so that only 20-25% of
external funds have been spent on the direct delivery of health care. Also, inflation has been a problem resulting in a
continuing erosion of salaries of health personnel. Regarding inflation, the situation should improve following the
recent entry of Guinea-Bissau into the UEMOA (CFA franc zone), with the major fiscal belt-tightening that such a
move entails. The NHDP will address the problem of the overall lack of funds (from both national and external
sources) for direct delivery of health care, with a better allocation of resources throughout the country and a new
financing strategy that increases private sector contributions, as well as contributions from external sources and, to the
extent possible, from the Government budget. Community-based financing schemes have been tried in Guinea-Bissau
with varying degrees of success. They include the "Abota" system (a type of cooperative or group of individuals that
pool funds for purchasing essential drugs with a pre-payment system) and the Bamako Initiative plan in the Gabu
Formn



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 11
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                             Project Title: National Health Development Program
Region (with the support of UNICEF and The Netherlands) aimed at improving the quality of local services and
ensuring the availability of essential drugs. The NHDP envisages the progressive implementation of the Bamako
Initiative in all regions. Regarding the allocation of resources within the sector and particularly between the four main
components of the program, about 60% of the program cost is for increasing coverage by primary health care centers
and by referral centers, 18% for the strengthening of institutional capacity at all levels, 21% for the management and
development of human resources, and 2% for the promotion of better health.
Although the Government managed to finance a significant percentage of expenditures for the health sector through the
use of counterpart funds generated from balance of payment support, availability of counterpart funding for individual
projects financed by donors and the payment of salaries and allowances to health personnel have always been a problem.
Regarding salaries and allowances, the Government has decreed that payment of social sectors civil servants' salaries is a
priority. The MOPH and the Ministry of Finance prepared a detailed plan for timely payment which has been in effect
(with social sector civil servants receiving payments on time) since August 1997.
15S. Technical Assessment:
The NHDP is technically sound. The issues of access and equity are addressed in a systematic manner on the basis of
needs, opportunities and comparative advantages within the context of the poverty agenda.
The preparation of program components is based on international as well as regional norms and practices, and the
program will be carried out in accordance with acceptable standards. Innovations, such as community financing and
regional planning, are based on sound technical, financial and economic considerations. Investment and recurrent cost
estimates for the program are based on estimates of prevailing market unit costs. A major issue is the emerging AIDS
epidemic and the level of commitment of the Government of Guinea-Bissau to fight this disease. An effort was made to
sensitize high-level Government personnel, with related public IEC and social marketing activities funded under the
ongoing Social Sector Project. Work on the NHDP fostered discussion and heightened consciousness of AIDS issues and
of the urgent need for more effective action. AIDS activities will be tailored and redirected in light of the government's
absorptive capacity and commitment. The population growth rate is also an issue. Program activities which will
contribute directly or indirectly to supporting family planning efforts include the integration of family planning services
and support in the minimum package of primary health services, the social marketing of condoms, IEC on responsible
parenthood and responsible sex, and training of health staff on sexual behavior and counseling.
16. Institutional Assessment-:
a. Executing agencies: The MOPH has demonstrated that, with the assistance of donors and consultants, it can
formulate a National Health Development Program. Nevertheless, the weak absorptive and implementation capacity of
the MOPH (including generally low capacity, efficiency, functioning and utilization of health services and personnel)
remains a widely recognized issue. Also, the MOPH may have difficulty implementing its personnel redeployment plan.
The NHDP will help improve the situation through emphasis on a program approach, on integrated services at the
periphery and on the need to focus on impact at local level, as well as through appropriate technical assistance and
training to increase capacity, including in the areas of planning, coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, at
all levels. In order to make it more attractive for health personnel to work at the periphery, incentive systems based on
better housing and working conditions have been incorporated into the program.
b. Project management: The management capacity of the MOPH is weak. The NHDP will strengthen it, and measures
have been (or will be) taken to strengthen program management, reduce the procurement and accounting burden that the
NHDP will impose on the MOPH, and facilitate donor coordination. These measures include (i) the appointment of a
Program Manager in the Directorate for the Coordination of External Assistance (DCAE) in DGPC; (ii) technical
assistance to be provided to the Directorate of Planning (DP) in DGPC by a public health specialist and a health
economist; (iii) installation in the Directorate of Administration and Finance (DAF) of an accounting system acceptable
to IDA and recruitment of an expert in accounting and financial management; (iv) delegation to AGEOPPE of the
Formn



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 12
Country: Gulnea-Bissau                                              Project Tdle: National Health Development Program
management and execution of the construction/rehabilitation of health infrastructures financed by the IDA credit, and
possibly by other donors; and (v) the use of UN Agencies and other non-profit organizations for the procurement of most
goods: procurement of vehicles and equipment through IAPSO, and procurement of drugs, vaccines and contraceptives
through UNIPAC or through other non-profit organizations (such as International Dispensary Association - IDA - in the
Netherlands).
17. Social Assessment:
Since the ultimate objective of the NHDP is the improvement of the health status and well-being of the population in
general, and of women and children in particular, the NHDP will have a very positive social impact. It will promote the
provision of good quality health care to the majority of the population through an improvement in the effective coverage
of the "minimum package" of care at the health center level, coupled with improved access to good quality referral care.
It will also ensure a greater share of budget resources to the health sector and improve their allocation to emphasize,
inter alia, faimess in the distribution of resources and equity in the access to health care across regions and social groups.
The NHDP ---in addition to benefiting the majority of the population ---includes activities such as information campaigns
and grassroot level actions that will reinforce the social acceptability of the program.
18. Environmental Assessment:    Environmental       [   A    [   B       [X] C
Category
This is a category C project, since no environmental risks are foreseen. Any construction/rehabilitation of buildings will
be done in accordance with acceptable standards. Promotion of hygiene will have a positive environmental impact.
There would be no displacement of people.
19. Participatory Approach:             Identification/Preparatio  Implementation       Operation
n
Beneficiaries/community groups     CON & COL            CON & COL              COL
Intermediary NGOs       CON                   CON &COL               COL
Academic institutions     COL                  COL
Local government       COL                  COL
Other donors      IS & COL              COL & IS               COL
Other (specify))
20. Sustainability:
The Program builds upon the ongoing Social Sector Project (Cr. 2465-GUB), which includes infrastructure, IEC, training
and (community/NGO) social fund activities and in which a pilot operation for social marketing of condoms began in
November 1995. The sustainability of the program will be helped considerably by the sector approach and the close
coordination envisaged among the key donors. Other factors which would help are (a) Government's acceptance of a
redefined role and to provide continuous support to the regions; (b) use of beneficiary assessments for yearly
reprogramming; and (c) transparency in allocation and management of resources. The MOPH explicitly designed the
National Health Development Program (NHDP) to deliver a cost-effective package of basic health services. The eventual
sustainability of services is enhanced by emphasis on basic primary health centers with regional (equivalent to districts)
hospitals for referral services, appropriate training and use of mid-level health personnel, redeployment of existing
resources, provision of generic essential drugs, community participation and cost recovery, and strengthened
management support and supervision. NHDP's integration of present vertical programs (e.g., immunizations, IEC,
AIDS, STDs, tuberculosis, leprosy), and the corresponding greater budget flexibility, will increase overall efficiency.
The program's essential drug financing will contribute to the MOPH's planned expansion of the Bamako Initiative, and
cost-recovery, particularly in hospitals, is incorporated in the NHDP. Beneficiaries and regional health teams have been
involved in the program's design. Beneficiaries will participate in implementation, monitoring/evaluation and
Formn



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 13
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                             Project itle: National Health Development Program
adjustment of the NHDP, through participatory evaluations of program activities. Private contractors and consultants
(under contracts with AGEOPPE) will execute the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure. The private sector
will also be involved in the social marketing of condoms and of mosquito nets. IDA financing of recurrent costs amounts
to about US$2.8 million and represent less than 12% percent of the Program's total recurrent expenditures. IDA funds are
not being allocated for salaries of MOPH staff. The share of IDA in recurrent expenditures declines over the life of the
Program as the government takes on an increasing share of financing of the Program. However, in spite of the
government's commitment to increasing levels of funding for the sector, foreseeable economic growth in Guinea-Bissau
indicates that external support will be necessary to sustain health and other social services for some years after the end of
the five-year National Health Development Program (NHDP) and the disbursement of the IDA credit.
21i . Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1 -A):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                   Risk                   Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Failure to improve the availability of  medium   Careful definition of the minimum package of health care; and
health  services, and  increase  their        emphasis put on "operational" health centers.
utilization.
Project components to outputs
Risk                   Risk                   Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Weakness in management and technical    medium   Technical assistance and training.
capacity.
Lack of donor coordination.          medium   Creation of the DCAE in DGPC, to be strengthened with the
appointrnent of a Program Manager.
Overall project risk rating
Risk                   Risk
Rating
Failure of Government to live up to its  medium   Thorough and constant monitoring of program implementation,
commitment to sector reform.                  with annual reviews. In the context of the CAS, this is one
component of the policy dialogue that will determine the level of
overall Bank support.
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The program faces a major risk of having its AIDS campaign and family planning promotion delayed because of cultural
or religious standpoints on the use of contraceptives and condoms. To reduce that risk, the implementation of the
program will be monitored very thoroughly, with involvement of the communities and annual reviews providing an
opportunity for campaigning by the MOPH on these issues.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Board and Effectiveness Conditions
All Board conditions have been met.
As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Government would:
(a) deposit into the project account the initial amount of US$73,00 equivalent. (Government counterpart funds for
1998).
Form_



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 14
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                              Project Title: National Health Development Program
(b) select the Program Manager and an expert in accounting and financial management with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA.
(c) establish a project management and computerized accounting systems acceptable to IDA.
(d) appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.
(e) submit to IDA a signed contract with AGEOPPE for the management and execution of the construction and/or
rehabilitation of health infrastructures.
(f) submit the final version of the NHDP Manual of Procedures, acceptable to IDA.
(g) submit the final version of the financial management manual to be used at Health Center level.
(h) submit a procurement plan for the first two project years.
(i) submit a detailed financing plan for 1998, showing the contribution of each donor, by item and by region.
24. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements database.]
Execution of the Program (see also Section 4). The Government would:
(a) Adopt annual recurrent expenditures budgets and rolling two-year public investment program for health, acceptable to
IDA; each year, the proportion of the recurrent budget dedicated to health should be at least 11%.
(b) Carry-out the program to ensure that the percent of health zones which are operational will be at least: 32% by
December 31, 1998; 32% by December 31, 1999; 54% by December 31, 2000; 76% by December 31, 2001; and 83%
by December 31, 2002.
(c) Carry-out the program to ensure that the percent of children under one year old fully immunized will be at least: 35%
in 1998; 45% in 1999; 55% in 2000; 65% in 2001 and 75% in 2002.
(d) Carry-out the program to ensure that the percent of births safely attended by trained midwives will be at least: 30% in
1998; 35% in 1999; 40% in 2000; 45% in 2001; and 50% in 2002.
(e) Conduct with IDA and other donors comprehensive annual Program Implementation Reviews no later than
November 30 of each year.
(f) Carry-out with IDA and other donors, no later than June 30, 2000, a midterm review in accordance with TORs and
monitoring indicators acceptable to IDA.
Financial Covenants (see Section 4 and Annex 6 on Procurement and Disbursement arrangements).
Disbursements and Special Account (see Annex 6 on Procurement and Disbursement arrangements).
Procurement and Consultant's Services (see Annex 6 on Procurement and Disbursement arrangements).
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                              Page 15
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                Project Title: National Health Development Program
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
| [ l    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: Tonia Marek                                      Country Director: Mahmood A. Ayub
Formn






Project Appraisal Document                                                 Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                        Annex 1A - Page 1 of 3
Annex IA
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary            Key Performance         Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and
Indicators'                                                Risks
CAS Objective                                                                        (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Poverty reduction through    - increased income of the
accelerating economic       poor
growth and shifting
resources to rural areas and
to human resource
development.
Project Development         (i) Reduction in mortality                               (Development Objectives to
Objectives                  and morbidity due to:                                    CAS Objective):
*  malaria;
To improve the health status  *  diarrhea;              To be obtained through       Deliberate efforts to reduce
and well-being of the       *  tuberculosis;            specific surveys to collect   the main causes of mortality
population, particularly    .  acute respiratory        data on the major causes of   and morbidity, particularly
women and children.             infections;             mortality and morbidity      for women and children,
*  sexually transmitted                                 would improve the health
diseases, including                                  status of the population in
AIDS;                                                general, and would be
*  measles.                                             consistent with the CAS
(ii) Reduction in peri-                                 objectives.
neonatal mortality from 10
% in 1997 to 3 % in 2002.
(iii) Reduction in total
fertility rate from 6 to 5.7
Project Outputs                                                                      (Outputs to Development
I                                                                            Objectives)
(a) Improved availability of  (a) Increase the number of   (a) To be reviewed        The major causes of
health services.            operational health zones to   annually by donors and     mortality and morbidity
provide minimum package    MOPH.                        (malaria, high fertility,
of care, i.e. fully equipped                            diarrhea, STDs, etc.) are
and staffed (including at                               well known. It is also
least one nurse and one                                 known that the most
midwife), and with an                                   important health event in
adequate supply of essential                            Guinea Bissau is the
drugs, vaccines and                                     management of some
contraceptives:                                         50,000 pregnancies a year
*  37 by 12/98 (32%)                                    and the ante- and post-natal
*  37 by 12/99 (32%)                                    care that mother and babies
*  62 by 12/00 (54%)                                    require. If the health system
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                             Project Title: Natonal Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                    Annex 1A - Page 2 of 3
*  87 by 12/01 (76%)                                  and facilities are focused on
*  96 by 12/02 (83%)                                  activities aimed at
controlling the major causes
(a-1) % of regions with                               of mortality and morbidity
regular supervisions from                             and at promoting safe
the center:                                           motherhood and infant and
*  75% in 1998;                                      children health, they are
*  90% in 1999 and 2000                              likely to be used, with a
*  95% thereafter.                                    consequent improvement in
the health status of the
population.
(b) Increased utilization of   (b-I) Increased consumer    (b-i): To be ascertained
health services.           satisfaction with health care  through beneficiary   Information campaigns to
services.                 assessments.                increase population
(b-2) Increased % of       (b-2) through (b-8): To be   awareness on the use of
pregnant women receiving    collected for the health  health services.
ante-natal care.          infornation system (SIS).
(b-3) Increased % of births                           Training of staff to improve
safely attended by trained                            client oriented behavior.
midwives from 30% in
1998, to 40% in 2000, and
to 50% in 2002.
(b-4) Increased % of
children under one year old
fully immunized from 35%
in 1998, to 55% in 2000,
and to 75% in 2002.
(b-5) Increased % of
patients successfully treated
against malaria.
(b-6) Increased % of
patients successfully treated
against diarrhea.
(b-7) Increased % of
patients successfully treated
against STDs.
(b-8) Increased % of
patients with complete TB
treatment.
(b-9) Contraceptive
prevalence rate from 5% in
1997 (in secondary cities) to
12% in 2002, from 1% in
1997 (in rural areas) to 10%
in 2002.
Project Components        (a) Number of regions that   (a) through (e): To be   (Components to Outputs)
[See Annex 2 for a detailed   are operational:       reviewed annually by
description.]              *  4 by 12/98              donors and MOPH.          MOPH central level and
*  6 by 12/99                                        regional health teams need



Project Appraisal Document                                             Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                   Annex IA - Page 3 of 3
l.Utilization and coverage   *  8 by 12/00                                      to have the managerial and
of primary health care   *  10 by 12/01                                       technical capacity to
centers and referral     *  11 by 12/02.                                      implement the program.
centers.
(b) % of Government                                   Sufficient and effective
2. Strengthening of        budget going to health: at                            coordination is maintained
institutional capacity at all least 11% each year.                             by the various donors and
levels.                                                                        Government.
(c) % of MOPH budget
3.Management and           going to primary health                               Adequate financing is made
development of human     care:                                                 available by donors and
resources.               * from 25 % in 1996 to 53                             Government to support
% in 1998 and thereafter.                          program activities.
4.Promotion of a better
health.                 (d) Development and
establishment of an
incentive system for health
personnel.
(e) Number of health
centers management
committees established and
trained.
(f) Number & % of health   (f) through (i): To be
workers trained.           collected for the health
information system (SIS).
(g) Number & % of
midwives trained.
(h) Regular payment of
salaries and allowances:
* 80% in 1998;
* 90% in 1999;
* 100% in 2000 and
thereafter.
(i) % of health centers with
community financing actual
revenues at least equal to
95% of estimates:
*  15%in1998;
* 30 % in 1999;
* 45 % in 2000;
* 55% in 2001;
70 % in 2002.



I



project Appraisal Document  Project Title: National Health Development Program
Projed Appraisal Document                                                 Annex IB - Page  of 3
Country: Guinea-Bissau
REPUBLICA DA GUINE-BISSAU
MINISTERIO DA SAIODE PUBLICA
Gabinete do Ministro
Sua Excelencia
Senhor Mahmood AYUB
Director das Operaq6es para Guin&Bissau
Banco Mundial
Washington - E.U.A.
ASSUNTO: Carta de Politica para o Desenvolvimento do Sector da Saude
Senhor Director,
Temos a honra de levar ao vosso conhecimento a politica do Governo a respeito do
desenvolvimento do Sector da Saude para os pr6ximos cinco anos. Esta poiftica foi
traduzida num documento estratdgico - Piano Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Sanitario (PNDS 1998 - 2002), estabelecendo o quadro de desenvolvimento sectorial
para este periodo e que foi apresentado aos Oraanismos financiadores nos dias 19, 20
e 21 de Junho de 1997.
A polftica sectorial de saude e parte integrante da politica de desenvolvimento socio-
econ6mico global desejada pelo Governo da Guine-Bissau. Entre os sectores sociais o
Governo prioriza a Sazude. 0 referido programa visa reforgar o Sistema Nacional de
Saude, incluindo os servigos de prestag,o de cuidados, as estruturas de gestzo e as
ligacoes funcionais, intra e intersectorial, a todos os nfveis, de forma a responder as
necessidades gerais e especificas da populac,o de cada regiao.
A politica nacional de saude baseia-se sobre os principios dos Cuidados Primarios de
Saude, atraves da implementac,2o do Pacote Mfninmo de Actividades : equidade,
eficacia, eficiencia, acessibilidade econ6mica, participagao comunitaria e colaboraga-o
intersectorial.
As principais estrategias da nossa politica sectorial de saude sao:
Melhoramento e reforgo da cobertura e qualidade dos servigos de cuidados
primarios e de referencia;
Reforgo da capacidade institucional em todos os niveis;
- Reforgo da gestao e melhoramento da qualidade dos Recursos Humanos;
Promogao da saude atraves de actividades intersectoriais e -programas de
Informagao, Educagao e Comunicagao (IEC).



Project Appraisal Document                                Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Sissau                                                   Annex tB -Page 2 of 3
Estas estrategias visam uma articulagao e uma complementaridade perfeita entre os
niveis central, regional e local, corn estruturas e instituigoes operacionais que
respondam  as necessidades da popula,co em  materia de cuidados curativos,
preventivos e promocionais.
Como o sector da saude nao pode sozinho garantir a saude da populagao, o
melhoramento dos indicadores socio-sanitarios passara necessariamente pela
abordagem intersectorial que envolva varios parceiros e sectores, como o
aprovisionamento em agua potavel, a educa,co e a informa,ao, a construpo de vies
de acesso, a protecca_o do ambiente e saneamento, a promo,ao e alfabetiza,ao das
mulheres, a agricultura, as condi9&es de habitagco, o desenvolvimento e a
descentraliza,co do nfvel administrativo, a cria,co de emprego sobretudo para os
jovens, a urbaniza,ao, etc.
Para lidar ao mesmo tempo com as limita,ces orgamentais do Estado e a incerteza
quanto a ajuda extema, vamos pautar por uma eficiencia na utilizac2o dos recursos
pela recuperaco dos cus.os tanto a nfvel dos Centros de Sauide como nos hospitais, e
pelas formas do refor,co financeiro aos programas sanitarios. 0  PNDS e um
instrumento de grande utilidade para este objectivo, pois ira permitir orientar e priorizar
a afecta,o de recursos, servindo de suporte ao controle e a avaliac2o a todos os
niveis.
E neste contexto que o PNDS 1998 - 2002 aparece como um marco importante para o
refor,o do sistema de sarude, numa base que se ajuste as reais necessidades sociais e
condig6es econ6micas  e fa,a parte  integrante  das estrategias  globais de
desenvolvimento do pais. Trata-se de uma abordagem global do conjunto do sistema
sanit2rio baseada numa an2lise da situagco e identificac2o das necessidades
priorit=rias numa situac2o de recursos limitados.
S=o objectivos do Plano Nacional de Desenvolvimento Sanit2rio:
-    Definir as grandes prioridades e estrategias nacionais em matdria de
desenvolvimento sanit2rio para o perfodo de 1998 - 2002, respondendo as
prioridades fixadas;
-    Responder equitativamente e com efici&ncia aos problemas e as necessidades
de todas as regioes;
-    Acelerar a descentraliza,o do sistema nacional de sauide;
-    Dispor de um quadro de intervenc0o coerente para a coordenarao das ac,coes
tanto a nfvel nacional como corn os parceiros de desenvolvimento.
Para desenvolver todo este processo, organizaram-se muitos encontros e discussoes.
A eleaborag;Ao do PNDS foi feita com o apoio de tecnicos nacionais, a participac,o
activa de todas as regi6es e a assitencia tecnica e financeira de varios organismos e
agencias internacionais, bem como de outros sectores.



Project Appraisal Document                                Project Title: National Health Development Program
Coun"Ty Guwnea-Bissau                                                    Annex IB - Page 3 of 3
As principais etapas que marcaram este processo participativo de baixo paxa cima, sao:
-    Seminario sobre a Reorganizac,o do Sistema Nacional de Sauide, em Abril de
1994;
-    Elaborac,o do guia de planificacao regional, em Marco de 1995;
-    Seminario sobre o financiamento do sistema de saude, em 1995;
-    Elaboragco do perfil sanitrio para as equipas regionais de sauide, com o apoio do
nivel central, em Novembro e Dezembro de 1995;
-    Reuniao sobre o desenvolvimento e a valorizac,o dos recursos himanos, em
Janeiro e Fevereiro de 1996;
-    Atelier sobre a coordenac,o e gestao da ajuda externa destinada ao sector da
sauide, em Fevereiro de 1996;
-    Encontro sobre a an&Use do sector da sauide: defLniqao de prioridades e
estrat6gias nacionais, em Marco de 1996;
-    Reuniao sobre a situacao sanitUaia e desenvolvimento do sistema de sautde do
Sector Aut6nomo de Bissau, em Junho de 1996;
-    Seminirio sobre programas regionais e nacionais prioritarios, em Junho de 1996;
-    Reuniao intersectorial, em Janeiro de 1997;
-    RealizaqAo da M.1esa Redonda sectorial da saude, em Junho de 1997.
12 a partir do conjunto de perspectivas que o P-NDS espera estabelecer nos pr6&mos
cinco anos uma nova parceria com as Ag8ncias doadores e Organismos Internacionais
para que as suas contribuic,oes tecnicas e financeiras encontrem um quadro propicio a
satisfacgao dos seus interesses mutuos e dos da promoc,o de uma melhor saAde para as
populagoes da Guine-Bissau.
Dr. Bf'   Gomes C6
cc:  -    Senhor Primeiro Ministro
-    Senhor Mlinistro dos Neg6cios Estrangeiros e Coopera9io
-    Senhor iMinistro da Economia e Finan9as






Project Appraisal Document                                              Project itle: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                     Annex 2 - Page I of 10
Annex 2
Detailed Program Description
A yearly description of activities to be financed by the Government, IDA and other donors will be agreed upon before
mid-December of the previous year. Such a yearly plan will describe all activities, their cost, their source of financing.
The present program description is provided to give the framework within which the financing of the yearly plan can be
made.
Program Component I - Utilization and coverage of Primary Health Care Centers and Referral Centers - US$37.5
million (total cost of component).
The objective of this component is to ensure that health services, at the level of primary health care centers as
well as at the level of referral centers, provide good quality, comprehensive, continuous and integrated health care
accessible to all. In this domain, the program aims to provide a basic minimum package of cost-effective integrated
preventive and curative health services in health centers accessible to a majority of the population, with community
outreach and with effective support and supervision by regional health (equivalent to health district) teams. Central
support and supervision, now provided through national programs (e.g., AIDS, EPI, MCH, FP, etc.), will be coordinated
at the national level and integrated at the regional and peripheral levels. The emphasis will be on system and service
integration and decentralization, and on rural and marginal urban areas.
The strategy involves: (i) a definition of health areas, consisting of a comprehensive network of health centers,
health posts and outreach activities to ensure access for all; (ii) partial cost-recovery with receipts managed by local
committees; and (iii) the use of hospitals mainly as referral centers.
Indicators are described in Annex l-A (section on program output).
Li - Ensure adequate physical coverage of health facilities accessible to a majority of the population
Description.
The DGSP has developed norms for infrastructures, personnel, medical equipment and furniture,
transport and communication equipment, as well as for maintenance. It has also defined the distribution of
health infrastructures (carta sanitaria) taking into account the distribution of population and the characteristics
of the different regions. The map of health centers will be kept under constant review and revised as necessary.
Those norms and map, as well as some preliminary estimates made for the hospitals, have provided the basis for
identifying the health facilities to be constructed or rehabilitated, and/or equipped and furnished. This sub-
component includes:
* Rehabilitation of health centers, in accordance with the map of health infrastructures (carta sanitaria);
* Construction of five new health centers in the city of Bissau, to relieve the pressure on the national hospital to
provide primary health care (to be selected from the following list of sites : Ga Bafata (CSC); Pefine (CSC);
St Luzia (CSC); Luanda (CSC); Antula (CSB); Cantum (CSB); Bairro Militar (CSB); Plaque (CSB); Missira
(CSC); K6lle extension (CSC).
* Equiping and furnishing health centers;



Project Appraisal Document                                            Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                  Annex 2 - Page 2 of 10
Construction of the Mansoa Regional Hospital and rehabilitation of the other regional hospitals and of the
Simao Mendes National Hospital, and their equipment.
In order to improve the advanced strategy (or community outreach) necessary to ensure adequate
coverage, the program also includes support to communities for the supervision, training, drug and contraceptive
supply for the operation of village health units (Unidades de Sazlde de Base - USB).
The IDA credit will finance, during the first two years, new constructions, equipment and furniture of
facilities in the regions of Bissau, Cacheu and Bafata, including health centers (type C and B) and related
facilities (water supply, staff houses, offices, etc), regional health offices and warehouses for storage and
distribution of drugs; and related services: preparation of specifications for equipment and civil works
management to be carried out by AGEOPPE.
Government and other donors including AfDB will finance almost the same kind of expenditures for
other regions not covered so far. The French FAC will finance the construction and eguipment of a regional
hospital in Mansoa.
Implementation arrangements. In order to reduce the workload of the DAF in the DGPC (normally responsible
for procurement) and the need for additional staff and consultants, the implementation of all civil works
(construction and rehabilitation) financed by the IDA credit (and also by any other donors interested in such
arrangements) will be delegated by MOPH to AGEOPPE, which will in turn sub-contract to consultants for the
preparation of detailed design and bidding documents and to contractors for the execution of the works. The
DCPS in the DGSP, the regions for the health centers, and the DSH in the DGSP will be responsible for the
overall planning of the works, the availability of land (if required), the preparation of the technical specifications
and any other information needed by AGEOPPE to prepare the detailed design and bidding documents. The
submission by MOPH to AGEOPPE of a signed agreement containing all that information for the first year of the
program will be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit, and each year a new dossier will be submitted at
the annual review.
1.2 - Ensure the availability of a minimum package of care
Description.
* At the level of the health centers, provision of a minimum package of cost-effective integrated preventive and
curative basic health services. Central support and supervision, now provided through national programs, will
be coordinated at the national level and integrated at the regional and peripheral levels (FP, EPI, Nutrition will
be integrated into MCH on the one hand, and malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, STD/AIDS, oncho, will be
integrated into disease control activities on the other hand). The minimum package of care will include: pre-
and post-natal care including family planning, assisted deliveries, curative care, provision of drugs,
contraceptives and vaccines, basic laboratory services, basic management of the health centers, and the
execution of regular outreach activities.
* At the level of the regional hospitals functioning mainly as referral centers, provision of secondary care. The
minimum package of care at this level will include: minor surgery, complicated deliveries, general anesthesia,
a definite set of laboratory services, availability of about 150 drugs, echography.
* Provision of care by the Simao Mendes National Hospital as the secondary reference center for the health
centers in the capital and as the tertiary reference for the rest of the country.



Project Appraisal Document                                              Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                     Annex 2 - Page 3 of 10
In order for those minimum packages of care to be of an adequate quality and to be delivered, the
program includes measures and actions to ensure the availability of qualified personnel (see Component 111) and
essential drugs; support for the development, establishment and operation of a system for regular and integrated
supervision of the regions (equivalent to a district) by a national multidisciplinary team with the provision of
adequate resources for supervisors; the introduction of a simple system of health statistics; the development and
operation of a reference system (cards, monitoring) and feedback; the installation and operation of a blood safety
system; the reduction of vertical programs; the introduction of a cost-recovery system to ensure a regular supply
of essential drugs and other materials as well as to permit the introduction of some incentives for health
personnel; and the operation of other national services (National Laboratory, Mental Hospital, Tuberculosis and
Leprosy Hospitals, etc.).
Regarding essential drugs, the program includes measures to reactivate the National Committee on Drugs
(Commissdo Nacional de Medicamentos) and to revise periodically the list of essential drugs on the basis of
updated treatment manuals; the promotion of a rational use of essential drugs by health personnel with standard
treatment schemes; the construction or rehabilitation of the central and regional drug depots and of the
pharmnacies of health facilities and their equipment; the adoption of a new legal status for the central and regional
depots to make them semiautonomous and to enable them in particular to buy and sell drugs; and the introduction
and operation of a comprehensive system for the purchase, storage, transport and distribution of essential drugs,
including the setting-up of prices and cost-recovery.
With respect to hospitals, the program includes the reactivation of the Directorate of Hospital Services
(Direcqdo dos Servicos Hospitalares - DSH) to coordinate the hospital policy; the definition of the functions,
norms and technical requirements, and the consequent allocation of personnel and other resources, for the
different referral levels; the adoption of a new legal status including in particular financial autonomy; the transfer
of the activities of the August Third Hospital to the Simao Mendes National Hospital (Hospital Nacional Simdo
Mendes - HNSM) as the only referral hospital at the national level; and a whole set of measures and activities for
the management and operation of hospitals, including the development and implementation of a management
system, the recruitment/reassignment and training of personnel, the operation of a hospital statistics system and
the introduction of cost-recovery. Some of these activities will require hiring specialized technical assistance.
The IDA credit will finance, during the first two year of the program, the procurement of the totality of
the essential drugs and contraceptive initial stock, to ensure an efficient start up of the system, and part of the
yearly stock replenishment of drugs and contraceptives; as well as the services of short term consultants needed
for establishing lists, specifications standardized treatment and documentation for the procurement of drugs.
Government and the AfDB will finance the reagents and materials.
Implementation arrangements. The DCPS in DGSP, in collaboration with the regions and other directorates and
services, will be responsible for ensuring that the minimum package of health care is introduced at the level of
the primary health care centers; the DSH in DGSP and the hospitals themselves will be responsible for ensuring
that the minimum package of care is introduced at the hospitals. The DSF in DGSP, together with the regions
and the DCM and DRM, will be responsible for essential drugs.
Program component II - Strengthening of Institutional Capacity at all levels (central, regional and local) - US$12.8
million (total cost of component).
The objective of this component is to improve the organization and management capacity at all levels of the
health system, and to ensure that the management of financial and other resources be more efficient, more equitable and
more transparent. In this domain, the program aims at improving the legal framework within which the health system



Project Appraisal Document                                            Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                  Annex 2 - Page 4 of 10
operates, planning, administrative and financial management, the coordination and management of external assistance,
community management and financing, and private sector participation.
In order for the NHDP to be properly managed and implemented, the strategy involves capacity building at all
levels, including the strengthening of consultation and coordination mechanisms within MOPH and between MOPH and
the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the reinforcement of the national system of health statistics, the integration of vertical
programs, the development of management capacity in the regions and the decentralization of financial and budgetary
functions, the collaboration between the public and the private sector, and the management of cost-recovery (particularly
for drugs) with community committees. The organigram of the MOPH was revised in order to allow for the creation of
the Technical Committee (Conselho Tecnico) in DGSP, the NHDP Management Committee (Comite de Gest&io) bringing
together the DGCP and the DGSP, the DSH, the DIECS, the DIE, and the DCAE, as well as the integration of vertical
programs at the central level in either SF or GE.
Indicators will be:
*  The availability of comprehensive and well designed national and regional plans.
*  Ratios between outputs and inputs: for example, number of visits per health worker, immunization cost per child,
utilization of hospital services (number of admissions), etc.
*  Availability of the most utilized essential drugs, in the central depot, in the regional depots and in the health
facilities.
*  Number of health centers management committees established and in operation, compared to the total number of
health centers.
*  Community financing: actual receipts versus estimated receipts.
*  Percentage of recurrent expenditures covered by community financing.
*  Percentages of the cost of essential drugs covered by community financing (at the levels of the national and the
regional drugs depots, and of the health facilities).
* Distribution of total external assistance and Government financing, by region, per inhabitant and per type of activity.
11.1 - Planning of activities at all levels
Description.
* In order for planning to be more consistent, efficient and coordinated, the program includes the development
of processes, procedures, fonns and timetables for the planning cycle, as well as the establishment and
operation of the Management Committee. It also includes the reorganization and strengthening of the health
information system with the creation of the Servi,o de informa9ao e Estatistica (SIE) in the DirecCJo de
Planificaqdo (DP) in order to improve MOPH's planning, decision making and monitoring capacities. In
collaboration with Epidemiology (Epidemiologia), the system will collect health statistics routinely every
month in each health facility, but also some data that can be obtained through specific surveys and on the
occasion of supervision visits. It will integrate various databanks that are useful for planning, including
health statistics, information and data on finances and budgets, programs and projects in the health sector and
foreign assistance, existing assets (buildings, equipment and vehicles) and human resources.
The IDA credit will finance, for the first two years of the program, operating costs for the supervision of
planning and training activities, including subsistence allocations and ancillary expenses (fuel, vehicles operation
and maintenance) related to travels to be undertaken by the supervisory teams to and within the regions.



Project Appraisal Document                                            Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                  Annex 2 - Page 5 of 10
Government and other donors will finance the technical assistance for a Public Health specialist and for a
Health Economist to strenathen the DGPC.
Implementation arrangements.
The DGPC, and more particularly the DP and SIE, will be mainly responsible for implementation. The DP will
be strengthened with technical assistance, for a period of at least two years, by a public health specialist and a
health economist.
II.2 - Administrative and Financial Management
Description.
In order for the administrative and financial management to be more transparent, rational and efficient,
the program includes the development and introduction of standard procedures and instruments for
administrative and financial management at all levels; the appointment and training of professional managers for
the regions; the training in financial management and supervision of personnel at all levels (including regional
managers and members of the management committees of the health centers); and the establishment of an
information system on financial flows to permit the monitoring of the execution of the program and budget,
including counterpart funds, external assistance and community financing.
T'he IDA credit will finance, for the first two years, the technical assistance for the accounting and
financial management, for the Program Manager; and office equipment, furniture needed to accommodate the
technical assistance; parts of the costs incurred for the program operation and coordination; the cost of the yearly
audits of the program financial statements, with special emphasis on the management of IDA credit and special
account.
Government and other donors will finance some of the oRerating costs as well as some technical
assistance.
Implementation arrangements. The Direc'do de AdministraVdo e Financas (DAF) in DGPC will be primarily
responsible for implementation. The DAF will be strengthened with technical assistance by an expert in
accounting and financial management.
I.3 - Coordination of external assistance
Description.
In order to ensure a better management and coordination of external assistance for the health sector, the
program includes the activation and strengthening of the Direcq&o de Coordenagdo da Ajuda Externa (DCAE) in
DGPC, with the establishment and operation of a data bank on external assistance. In addition to maintaining a
system for the financial monitoring of NHDP's implementation, the DCAE will assist the Director General of
DGPC in the preparation of requests for external funding; participate in the organization of round tables for the
health sector; follow-up on consultative groups and relevant donor consultation decisions; analyze aid modalities
and trends and prepare strategies for donor negotiations; and assure link between planning activities and aid
coordination.
The IDA credit will finance, for the first two years, the technical assistance to be provided by the
Program manager and an accountant along with, office equipment and furniture needed to accommodate the



Project Appraisal Document                                            Project Title: National Heaith Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                  Annex 2 - Page 6 of 10
technical assistance, and part of the costs incurred for the program operation and coordination (already included
in II.2 above).
Government and other donors will finance the short-term technical assistance to DCAE needed to
establish, and train MOPH personnel in oRerating the data bank on external assistance.
Implementation arrangements. The DCAE in DGPC will be mainly responsible for implementation.
1.4 - Community Management and Financing
Description.
In order for community management and financing to be introduced in the whole country and to improve
its organization and the framework within which it operates, the program includes the definition of the
modalities, procedures and institutional arrangements for management committees at the level of the health
centers and of the hospitals; the progressive expansion of the Bamako Initiative with the establishment, training
and supervision of management committees and arrangements for the preparation of annual plans by the health
centers and the hospitals; and the promotion of other forms of community participation through IEC, and to
intersectoral initiatives at different levels, and collaboration with the private sector and NGOs.
The IDA credit will finance operating costs, for the supervision of management advisory and training
activities, which include subsistence allocations and ancillary expenses (fuel, vehicles operation and
maintenance) related to travels to be undertaken by the advisory and training teams to and within the regions.
Government and other donors will finance technical assistance to help set up and monitor the Bamako
Initiative as well as training expenditures.
Implementation arrangements. In collaboration with the regions, the DCPS in DGSP will be primarily
responsible for implementation with respect to the health centers, and the DSH in DGSP will be primarily
responsible for implementation with respect to hospitals.
1.5 - Assets Management
Description.
To improve the management of MOPH's assets (buildings, vehicles, etc.) and their maintenance, the
program includes the development and establishment of an assets register and of a monitoring system at all
levels; the development and implementation of a program of preventive maintenance for equipment and vehicles;
measures to standardize equipment and vehicles in order to facilitate operations, maintenance and repairs; and
the training of personnel in those fields.
The IDA credit will finance parts of the short-term local and foreign consultancies to assist in defining,
planning and implementation of an asset management including measures to improve monitoring and
maintenance of equipment and vehicles.
Government and other donors will finance parts of the same items.
Implementation arrangements. The DAF (Directorate of Financial Affairs) in DGPC will be primarily
responsible for implementation (with the assistance of long- and short-term consultants).



Project Appraisal Document                                            Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                   Annex 2 - Page 7 of 10
II.6 - Legal Framework for the Health Sector and Private Sector Participation
Description.
The program includes the preparation or revision of the different legal texts covering the organization
and the functioning of the sector; and measures to ensure the operation of the Inspection General (Inspecado
Geral). In order to allow the private sector to complement the public sector in the provision of health care at all
levels, the program also includes the preparation and adoption of a legal and regulatory framework for private
sector participation; the introduction of a system of registry, authorization, monitoring and inspection for the
provision of services; and the preparation of standards agreements for the delegation to the private sector of
public health activities.
The IDA credit will finance short-term local and foreign -- if necessary --consultancy, in the fields of
administration and law, to assist in the improvement of the legal framework and drafting of texts proposals when
required.
Government and other donors will finance provision of services by the private sector, in particular for the
social marketing of condoms and of mosquito nets.
Implementation arrangements. The DGSP and the DGPC, in collaboration with the Ministry Cabinet and the
Inspection General, will be responsible for implementation.
Program Component HI - Management and Development of Human Resources - US$12.6 million (total cost of
component).
The objective of this component is to improve the quality, efficiency and distribution of human resources through
the implementation of specific strategies for personnel management and training. In this domain, the program aims at
improving (i) the management of human resources at both the central and regional levels, (ii) the motivation, working
conditions and career prospects of health personnel, and (iii) the training (for technical aspects as well as for
management) of health personnel in accordance with the needs and priorities of the health system.
The strategy is based on the fact that, in order to function properly, the health system needs an appropriate
number (with the right expertise mix) of well-trained and decently paid health workers, with an adequate system of
supervision. A human resources development plan has been prepared which defines the norms, the qualifications and
experience required, the number of positions needed, the training plan (basic and in-service training, continuing
education and post-graduate education, in-country and out of the country), and concrete incentives to ensure an equitable
distribution of personnel between regions and between rural and urban areas.
Indicators will include:
* Timeliness of payment of salaries and allowances to health personnel.
*  Actual number of health personnel, as compared to the norms: per region, per health area, etc.
*  Actual number of supervision visits, compared to the plan.
*  Number of health personnel trained (particularly midwives, or traditional birth attendants).
*  Availability of a human resources data bank.



Project Appraisal Document                                             Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                    Annex 2 - Page 8 of 10
III.1 - Management of Human Resources
Description.
In order to improve the management of human resources at both the central and regional levels, the
program includes:
*  The improvement and operation of a decentralized information system for the management of human
resources (Sistema de Informacdo e Gestdo de Recursos Humanos da Sau;de - SIGRPIS) with the
establishment of norms and processes and the training of staff in the regions.
*  The implementation of norms and criteria for the recruitment, assignment, distribution and mobilization of
personnel; the payment of allowances; disciplinary measures; and procedures and processes for training at all
levels.
*  The establishment of norms for the number and types of positions in the different services and health
facilities, the monitoring of the situation, and the regular review at the level of the Management Committee
in DGPC of personnel planning on a short-, medium- and long-term basis.
-  The development of coordination mechanisms within MOPH and with other relevant ministries for the
development of human resources (Civil Service, Finances, Education, etc.).
The IDA credit will finance local and foreign short-term consultancies to assist in improving the human
resources management system.
Government and other donors will finance two years of long-term technical assistance.
Implementation arrangements. The DRH in DGPC, in collaboration with the regions, will be responsible for
implementation.
H11.2 - Improvement of the motivation, working conditions and career prospects of health personnel
Description.
The program includes:
*  Development and establishment of an incentive system based on the degree of isolation (for posting outside
of Bissau), improvement of the criteria for the payment of allowances (subsidios de risco e de vela), and
review of the procedures for the payment of salaries.
*  Establishment and implementation of a system of fellowships for training in accordance with the priorities
established by the program.
*  Review and implementation of a health career system, in accordance with the definitions of the civil service.
*  Construction or rehabilitation of 195 lodgings for health personnel in the regions (in areas outside of the
capital).
*  Possibility of using part of the receipts of the cost-recovery system to pay bonuses to health personnel.



Project Appraisal Document                                           Project Ttle: National Healfth Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                  Annex 2 - Page 9 of 10
The IDA credit will finance part of the investment needed to improve working and living conditions of
staff, including provision of lodging and safe water in the regions; and foreign and local consultancy services to
assist in the design and establishment of incentive and development career systems.
Government and other donors will finance the same but in different regions.
Implementation arrangements. The DRH in DGPC will be primarily responsible for implementation with regard
to the services and regulatory aspects, while the construction or rehabilitation components will be delegated to
AGEOPPE.
m.3 - Training of Personnel
Description.
*  In order to improve the training of personnel, both on technical matters and on management, in accordance
with the needs and priorities of the health system, the program includes:
*  The establishment of the National Medical School (Escola Nacional de Saude - ENS), integrating training
activities at present carried out by ESM, ETQS, and PSS.
*  The development and implementation of training activities, in accordance with the priorities of the program,
in order to: (i) complete the staffing of primary health care facilities with nurses and midwives; (ii) fill the
vacancies for technicians that will occur during the 5-year period; (iii) improve the qualifications of
technicians; and (iv) adapt the curricula of nurses and midwives and the pedagogical methods to the new
definitions of the health system (i.e. minimum package of health care), to the health problems the most
frequently encountered and to the established priorities within the NHDP.
*  The completion of the training of doctors at present enrolled in ESM.
*  The development of programs of continuing education linked to supervision.
*  The preparation of training modules to assist the regions in their programs of continuing education.
*  The development and reinforcement of training programs in management, administration and accounting for
the personnel of the regions, the management committees of health centers, the technical personnel of health
facilities and the staff of hospitals.
*  The development and the monitoring of implementation of a medium- and long-term plan for post-graduate
training both inside and outside of the country.
The IDA credit will finance, the second phase of the post-graduate training of medical doctors with a
foreign training institution, local and foreign training specialists for short term consultancies, and operating costs,
for the supervision of training activities.
Government and other donors will finance per diem for trainees, equipment and technical assistance for
the ENS.
Implementation arrangements. The DRH in DGPC, in collaboration with DGSP and the regions, will be
responsible for implementation, with the exception of the establishment of the National Medical School (Escola
Nacional de Sauide - ENS) which is the responsibility of the Minister of MOPH



Project Appraisal Document                                              Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                    Annex 2 - Page 10 of 10
Program Component IV - Promotion of a Better Health - US$3.2 million (total cost of component).
The objective of this component is to promote a better health for the population through intersectoral activities,
including those related to a better hygiene, birth spacing and STDs/AIDS prevention. In this domain, the Program aims
at strengthening intersectoral coordination for the carrying-out of health-related activities, especially IEC. The activities
will involve the private sector, NGOs and communities, and will be selected for their expected cost-effectiveness in
Guinea-Bissau.
The approach is to develop and implement a strategy to influence the attitudes and practices of the population in
general in a direction favorable to health, through operational research, pilot projects, and interpersonal and mass media
communication. It will also involve collaboration with other ministries and organizations for water supply, the education
of youth (particularly girls), the functioning of the health centers management committees, etc.
* Indicators will include: indicators of KAP (Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices) in priority areas (AIDS, nutrition,
population, for example).
Description.
In order to be able to influence positively the behavior of the population, the program includes the formulation of
a national IEC strategy; KAP surveys and operational research on behavior of the population in cases of diseases and
pregnancies ("health seeking behavior") in collaboration with other sectors and NGOs; and the establishment and
operational use of a databank on the attitudes, practices and behavior of the different ethnic groups that influence their
health status or their behavior when sick. It also includes specific IEC activities: production and testing of IEC materials
to be used at different levels; improvement of the technical qualifications of DIECS personnel; promotion of mass media
and other campaigns; training of health personnel in interpersonal communication to deal with concrete situations
(nutritional orientations, continuity of treatment for tuberculosis, importance of immunizations, how to avoid dehydration
in the case of diarrhea, risks of DSTs and AIDS); and coordination of the various IEC programs at the central level and in
the regions. Finally, the progran includes the establishment or activation of coordination mechanisms with other sectors
(Ministries and public entities, but also private sector and NGOs) which are particularly important and relevant for the
health status of the population; the dynamisation of the Interministerial Committee against AIDS; and the social
marketing of condoms and mosquito nets, creating a private capacity to continue this effort in the future.
The IDA credit will finance short term local and foreign consultants specialized in IEC, KAP surveys, studies
and the continuation of the condom social marketing program.
Government and other donors will finance long-term technical assistance needed as well as investment costs in
equipment and vehicles.
Implementation arrangements. The DIECS will be primarily responsible for implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Project Tite: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                            Annex 3 - Page 1 of 1
Annex 3
Estimated Program Costs
Program Component                                                 Local           Foreign        Total
Utilization and Coverage                                           25.3             12.2          37.5
Strengthening Institutional Capacity                               6.1              6.7           12.8
Management/Development Human Resources                             6.0              6.6           12.6
Promotion of Better Health                                          1.5             1.7           3.2
Total Program Cost                                                 39.0             27.1          66.1



I
I



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                            Annex 4 - Page 1 of 5
Annex 4
Economic Analysis2
I. Cost-effectiveness/best practice analysis
This analysis is based on the part of the NDHP budget concerned with the District level minimum package of
activities only (which represents about half of the whole NHDP budget). It shows that the NHDP budget is within
acceptable norms.
Estimated Cost of the District Minimum Package of Activities per Inhabitant
Year Functi    Cum.          Rec.   Inv. Costs Total Costs Cum.increase  Population  Total costs        Cum.
o-    increase in    Costs                          in growth rate    (# of         per       increase in
nality functionality                                        of         people)    inhabitant  rate of total
rate    rate (%)                                     total costs (%)                            cost per
inhabitant
1998  0.55       9.09     2,645,404  1,795,279  4,440,683        5.11       1,088,000      4.08          2.93
1999  0.60       9.92     2,818,369 1,849,138  4,667,507         5.37       1,111,000      4.20          3.02
2000  0.65       10.74    3,003,485  1,904,612  4,908,097        5.65       1,134,000      4.33          3.11
2001  0.70       11.57    3,201,597  1,961,750  5,163,347        5.94       1,157,000      4.46          3.21
2002  0.75       12.40    3,413,609 2,020,603  5,434,212         6.25       1,180,000      4.61          3.31
Total                     15,082,46  9,531,382 24613,846
_______           ~~    ~~~~~~~5 ______  ______ _________ _______          _______
14.00  -                 -- -  U:; W'
12.00                                             -4- S.....e...
80.00
12.00    -                . . . . . . . ... ... ...ssissiwile   ^-ii4Nl.tw *i3i"Sii. "s
40-Series3
4.00
2.00
0.00~
1998      1999      2000      2001      2002
Series 1 = Cumulative increase in functionality rate
Series 2 = Cumulative increase in growth rate of total costs
Series 3 = Cumulative increase in growth rate in total cost per inhabitant.
2isanalysis is based ona aNHDP budget ofUS$60.1lmillion instead of US$66.1 million. Theeconomicanalysisis largely
unaffected by the additional $6 million because it will be used for investment costs at the central and regional levels (US$3.7 million
for the social marketing of condoms and US$2.3 million for national and regional hospital rehabilitation). The country is still well
below the subsaharan average in terms ofthe standard recommended minimum package cost/inhabitant.



Project Appraisal Document                                           Project Ttle: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                 Annex 4 - Page 2 of 5
Main assumptions:
Estimates are based on the following assumptions:
- The utilization rate of health services increases by 50% (from 50% of optimal
functionality in 1998 to 75% in 2002);
- Salaries and cost of life increases with 3% per year;
- The population growth rate is 2.1% per year.
As can be seen from the above table and graph, the cost per inhabitant will increase slowly from around US$4 to
US$4.6 over the NHDP period, although an increase in effectiveness is expected to be achieved. The cost per unit of
activity (measured by the number of new cases treated in the District) is expected to decrease from around US$14.5
(frequency rate of 0.275  new  cases/inhabitantlyear) to around US$11.8  (frequency rate of 0.375  new
cases/inhabitant/year).
In case of a theoretical "good" utilization rate of services (0.5 new cases/inhabitant/year, which is a long term
objective), compared to the norm which the Bank uses in "Better Health in Africa" -BHA- the NHDP costs for primary
care services to be provided seem to be within acceptable levels. The NHDP points to a cost of US$4.49/person/year
which compares favorably to US$8.1 5/person/year for BHA. Most of the difference is due to the relatively low salaries
in Guinea-Bissau. The average civil service wage in Guinea-Bissau is about one sixth of the UEMOA average. For
comparison purposes, if the salary component of the NHDP is multiplied by 6, the NHDP cost/person/year would reach
US$6.75, much closer to the BHA norm.
H. Analysis of financial and economic impact
In 1996, the Government budget for health was equivalent to US$2.26 million. For 1997, the budget proposed by
Government for the Health Sector is US$2.53 million (at the rate of 580 FCFA/dollar), which includes the E.U.
budgetary aid (the E.U. aid is expected to remain constant in the coming years at around US$1.25 million/year). Thus, it
is expected that throughout the NHDP period, Government budget available for the health sector will remain at around
US$2.5 millions per year. In the NHDP budget (next page), it is estimated that the reJcurrent costs to be born by the
Government (plus structural adjustment aid from the E.U.) will amount to US$10.4 for the five years of the NHDP, or
about US$2 million/year. To this, about US$400,000/year is added in investments (from the E.U. budget). Thus, the
NHDP is well within the limits of what will be available in terms of government budget.
The communities will also contribute to recurrent costs through the implementation of a cost-recovery system for
drugs, its contribution will only represent 2% of the overall NHDP budget for year 1, but it will increase steadily as the
Bamako Initiative and the hospital cost-recovery systems expand.
The NHDP will be financed as follows:



Project Appraisal Document                                          Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                Annex 4 - Page 3 of 5
Origin of Funds Year 1   Year2   Year3   Year4   Year5    Year6
(Estim)
-Intern#tal       23% .  20%,'   23%/e    42%           51%      67°1%
Govt              10%       7%       7%        12%      15%      37%
AS (E.U.)         11%       9%       11%       17%      15%       0%
Comnmuniti         2%       3%        5%       13%      21%      30%
External          77%-    80%    : 77%        58%: :  49%        33%
Grant             47%       35%      40%      45%       37%      33%
Credits           30%      45%       37%       13%      12%       0%
Same table as above, but in US$:
Orizin of Funds       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5    TOTAL
- -erna.            2 485 651   3 100-52    3 800 944  3 919973   4 011 376   17 318 097
Govt                  1 101 743    1 123 778    1 146 254   1 169 179   1 192 562    5 733 516
AS                    1 160 336    1 459 008    1 763 177   1 555 945   1 174 822    7 113 288
Communiti              223 572     517366       891513   1 194 849   1 643 992    4 471 292
E xter.n . . - - - .    8 35127-8 12 443994.' 12 614 272  5 496 885  3-909 389  42 815 821
Grants                5 137 688    5 406524    6 512 828  4 260 818  2 923 285   24 241 145
Credits               3 213 590    7 037 470    6 101 444   1 236 067    986 104   18 574 676
TOTA- -         10 836 9929 - . 15-544-146   16 415 216  9 41  8581 7 920 765 6-G0 133 918
III. Analysis of budget allocation according to NHDP objectives
The table below shows that out of the total NHDP budget (US$60 millions), 59% are to increase coverage, 21%
for human resources development, 18% for institutional strengthening and 2% for IEC. If the same budget is analyzed,
without taking into account the technical assistance (which represents 23% of the total budget), we have 66% for
coverage, 23% for human resource development, 9% for institutional strengthening, 2% for IEC. Technical assistance
decreases yearly throughout the NHDP as knowledge is transferred to nationals and as more nationals are being trained to
take over.
Technical    TOTAL without
NHDP Objectives          TOTAL           Assistance          T.A.
1. Coverage                   59%              36%              66%
2. Institutional              18%              49%               9%
3. Human Development          21%              15%              23%
4. IEC                         2%               0%               2%
TOTAL                 100%            100%             100%



Projet Appraisal Document                                         Project Tdle: National Health Development Program
Country: Guhnea-Bisaau                                                              Annex 4 - Page 4 of 5
IV. Analysis of budget allocation according to cost center
More than 53% of the budget will be targeted to the districts (Minimum Package of Activities - PMA -). The
national hospital, Simao Mendez, represents only 14% of the total budget. These allocations do reflect the priorities set in
the NHDP.
Cost center           TOTAL  T.A.   TOTAL
without T.A.
Districts (PMA)                      53%    33%       57%
Central Hospitals and               24%    19%        26%
Health School, Programs, Central    23%    47%        17%
TOTAL                 100%   100%       100%
Note: H6pital National SimnaO Mendez  14%    17%      13%
V. Analysis of the coherence between recurrent and investment costs
The NHDP's budget combines recurrent and investment costs in a consistent manner (which ws not the case
before the NHDP, as recurrent costs were established by the MOPH, while investment budgets were decided by the
Ministry of Plan, without always coordination among ministries).
Fifty-seven percent of the NHDP budget is for investments and 43% for recurrent costs. The main reason for a
rather high percentage for investments is that due to the need for qualified human resources for the implementation of the
NHDP, 23% of the total budget is to buy technical assistance (but on a rapidly decreasing basis as can be seen in the table
below), which represents 40% of the investment budget.
ITEM         1998        1999        2000       2001       2002
Personal       1 211 956   1 233 991   1 256 467  1 279 392  1 302 775
Drugs          2 016 551   2 146 388   2 282 299  2 335 295  2 481 580
Maintenance      410 863    461 467    507 945   518 104   528 466
Other          1 174 415   1 197 903   1 221 861  1 246 298  1 271 225
Recurrent      4 813 785   5 039 749   5 268 572  5 379 089  5 584 046
Constructions   1 128 889   4 738 124   3 658 391        0          0
Others         1 719 832   2 417 260   4 267 138  1 775 624  1 205 791
Tech. Assist.   3 174 424   3 349 013   3 221 114  2 262 145  1 130 929
Investments    6 023 145  10 504 937  11 146 643  4 037 769  2 336 720
Total   I 10 836 9301 15 544 6861 16 415 215| 9 416 858| 7 920 766



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Project Ttle: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                                           Annex 4 - Page 5 of 5
NHDP BUDGET (1998-2002) in US$
Code              PNDS: RESUME                PNDS TOTAL           Financements Besoin net de Pour m6moire:
compt.           Rebriques de depenses             (USS)               Assur6s    fmancement   part de ia
population
1.1.0  Custos referentes ao pessoal               6 284 580  10%       6 284 580            0            0
1.1.1  Salarios                                   4 921 558  8%        4 921 558            0            0
1.1.2  Subsfdiosepremios                            811 958   1%        811 958             0            0
1.1.3  Per diemsdeslocacoes                        551 064  1%          551 064             0            0
1.2.0 Medicam. e consumiveis medic.              11 262 113  19%       8 220 412    3 041 701    4 471 292
1.2.1  Medicamentos (inci contraceptivos)         6 622 593  11%       4 495 530    2 127 064    2 836 568
1.2.2  Materais e reagentes                       3 840 960  6%        2 926 322      914 637     1 634 723
1.2.3  Vacinas                                      79 856  1%           79 856            0             0
1.3.0  Outros materiais de consumo                3 913 023  7%        3 913 023           0             0
1.3.1  Material escrit6rio                         374 899  1%          374 899            0             0
1.3.2  Combustfveis                                  60 702   1%         60 702             0            0
1.3.3  Complementos alimenticios                  2 552 406  4%        2 552 406            0            0
1.3.4  Outros materiais de consumo                 378 698  1%          378 698             0            0
1.4.0  Manuten,ao                                 2 426 844  4%        2 426 844            0            0
1.4.1  Infraestruturas                            1 518 052  3%        1 518 052            0            0
1.4.2  Meios de ftransporte                        499 848  1%          499 848             0            0
1.4.3  Equipamentos e materiais                    408 944   1%         408 944             0            0
1.5.0  Servicos                                     914 244  2%         914 244             0            0
1.5.1  Telefona e fax                              260 514  0%          260 514             0            0
1.5.2  Electricidadeeagua                          376 198  1%          376 198             0            0
1.5.3  Seguros, taxas                                70 723  0O/o        70 723             0            0
1.5.4  Outros servicos                              206 809  0%         206 809             0            0
1.6.0  Formac,o e IEC/Comunic. social             1 284 435  2%        1 284 435            0            0
1.6.1  Formacao continua                            867 123  1%         867 123             0            0
1.6.2  ComunicacIosocia1IIEC                       417 312   1%         417 312             0            0
2.1.0  Engenharia                                 9 525 404  16%         241 731    9 283 673            0
2.1.1  Construc6es novas                          6 501 911  11%          41 605    6 460 306            0
2.1.2  Reabilitac  esmaiores                      1 228 848  2%           55 752     1 173 096           0
2.1.3  Reabilitacoesmenores                       1 794 645  3%          144 374     1 650 271           0
2.2.0  Aquisicao Meios de transporte              2 181 990  4%        1 552 922      629 068            0
2.2.1  Viaturas                                   1 677 830  3%        1 120 176      557 654            0
2.2.2  Motcrizadas                                  360 064  1%          28 865        71 414            0
2.2.3  Bicicletas                                    60 864  0%           60 864            0            0
2.2.4  Embarcacoes                                   83 232  0%           83 232            0            0
2.3.0  Equipamentos                               5 796 265  10%       3 735 799    2 060 467            0
2.3.1  Equipamentosmedicais                       3 143 393  5%        1 947 273     1 196 120           0
2.3.2  Medicamentos, estoque inicial              1 073 937  2%          20 959       864 347            0
2.3.3  Mobiliarios                                  893 005   1%        893 005             0            0
2.3.4  Outros equipamentos                          685 931   1%        685 931             0            0
2.4.0  Form. prof e Comunic.Soc.                  2 779 790  5%        2 779 790            0            0
2.4.1  Formac,o prof. inicial no pals             1 030 400  2%        1 030 400            0            0
2.4.2  Bolsas de estudo (exterior)                  916 744  2%         916 744             0            0
2.4.3  Missoes para estrangeiro                     832 646  1%         832 646             0            0
2.4.4  Comunicac5o Social                                0  0%                0             0            0
2.5.0  AssistenciaT6cnica                        13 765 225  23%      10 205 459    3 559 766            0
2.5.1  Assistencia tdcnica de longa dura,cao     11 307 453  19%       8 674 480    2 632 973            0
2.5.2  Servicos de consultores intemacionais      2 041 449  3%        1114656        926 793            0
2.5.3  Consultorias locais                          416 323   1%        416 32  _           0            0
_0TALGJ~RAL    I  JAW9,14[






Project Appraisal Document                                             Project Ttle: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                    Annex 5 - Page 1 of 1
Annex 5
National Health Development Program
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(in million US$, base year: 1997)
Implementation Period                           Operational Period
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002    2003   Total  2004  2005   2006    2007    2008
Program Costs
Investment    5.4    6.9    7.5    7.6    7.0       6.8    41.0    -       -       -        -       -
Costs
Recurrent    4.0    4.1    4.2    4.2    4.3        4.3    25.1   3.4    3.4    3.5        3.6      3.6
Costs
Total       9.4   11.0   11.7   11.8   11.3    11.1   66.1   3.4    3.4    3.5          3.6      3.6
Financing
Sources (M of
total program
costs)
IDA           1.1    3.4    4.1    3.7    3.0       2.4    17.7    -
Co-           9.2    9.2    9.2    9.4    9.4       9.4    55.8    -       -       -        -       -
financiers
3.2    3.2    3.3    3.3    3.3       3.3    19.7   4.1    4.1    4.1       4.2      4.2
Government
Beneficiaries   0.6    0.8    1.1    1.4    1.4      1.7    6.8    1.1   1.1    1.2        1.2      1.2
Total      14.1   16.6   17.7   17.8   17.0    16.8   100.0  5.1    5.1    5.3          5.4      5.4






Project Appraisal Document                                         Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                               Annex 6 - Page 1 of 9
Annex 6
National Health Development Program
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Guinea-Bissau's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over
any contrary provisions in local regulations. Procurement of works, goods and services financed by the IDA credit will
be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995,
revised in January and August 1996). Consultants services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance
with Bank's Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with Guinea-Bissau's
procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that: (i) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids
(three to four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iii) no
preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (v)
award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (vi) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding
documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable. IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for ICB
procurements. Bidding documents agreed upon by IDA and used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in the Social
Sector Project (SSP) will be used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurements under the Program. The
Bank's Standard Forms of Contract for Consultant Services will also be used where applicable. One ICB contract
document and one NCB document for procurement of civil works and goods have been reviewed and approved by IDA
during appraisal and negotiations. All of the above document formats are available in computerized format. As part of
the Program Implementation Manual, the MOPH is preparing a draft procurement/disbursement plan for review by IDA
and other donors. The plan will be reviewed and updated at least one month prior to the start of each program year.
Procurement under the program will be handled by the DAF in DGPC, with the assistance of short-term
consultants and of the Program manager. In order to reduce the workload of the DAF and the need for consultants, the
implementation of all civil works (construction and rehabilitation) financed by the IDA credit (and also by other donors
interested in such arrangements) will be delegated by MOPH during the first two program years to the local Construction
Management Agency (AGEOPPE), which will contract out consultants services for the preparation of detailed design and
bidding documents and to contractors for the execution of the works. The DCPS in the DGSP and the regions for the
health centers, and the DSH in the DGSP and the hospitals themselves for the hospitals, will be responsible for the
overall planning of the works, the availability of land (if required), the preparation of the technical specifications and any
other information needed by AGEOPPE to prepare the detailed design and bidding documents. Also, to facilitate small
and urgent procurement may be done through IAPSO for specialized equipment and through UNIPAC or other non-
governmental organizations (as long as it is the least cost solution) for drugs -- in accordance with the provisions
described below for the procurement of goods. For all other procurement handled by DAF, the procurement methods
described below and summarized in Table A will apply.
The total cost of civil works is estimated at US$ 11.8 million for the whole five year-program. Civil works
contracts financed by IDA during the two first program years are for the construction and rehabilitation of health
facilities and other infrastructures in the regions, including Bissau. They are estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.09 million, and would be procured through NCB procedures applicable to
AGEOPPE, and described in the Manual of Procedures which is acceptable to IDA. AGEOPPE will maintain a roster of
contractors eligible for NCB, according to procedures acceptable to IDA, as spelled out in the Manual of Procedures.
Contracts for small works estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000,
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified



Project Appraisal Document                                          Project Ttle: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                Annex 6 - Page 2 of 9
domestic contractors invited to bid by way of discounts either on the total price or the on the unit price. The invitation
shall include reference unit prices, established by an engineer, a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where
applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work,
provided he demonstrates he has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. These contracts
would mostly be for works relating to small construction in rural health areas.
The total cost of goods is estimated at US$ 19.2. million, including health equipment kits, hospital furniture,
equipment and supplies, training center equipment and supplies, warehouse stacking and operational equipment,
transport vehicles, pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents and medical supplies, textbooks and learning materials, and
office furniture, equipment, technology supplies and fuel. Procurements will be bulked where feasible into packages
valued at US$ 100,000 or more and will be procured through ICB. Procurement of office furniture, vehicles and fuel
valued at less than US$ 100,000 up to an aggregate total of US$ 0.32 million will be procured through NCB.
Implementation of the program would require the purchase of relatively small, primarily consumable items, by MOPH
local offices, regional authorities and communities around the country, which would be difficult and impractical to
package and procure following NCB procedures. Thus, such items (mostly pharmaceuticals and medical equipment)
which could not be grouped into ICB packages and costing less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$1.45 million over the project duration, would be procured respectively through (UNIPAC) and through
the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the UNDP (IAPSO); this would be the most economical and efficient way of
procuring small quantities in particular in case of emergency. Procurement of small equipment, furniture and vehicles
costing less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$50,000 may be procured through prudent
local shopping, or up to US$50,000 through international shopping on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three
reputable suppliers. Spare parts, operating expenditures, minor off-the-shelf items, pharmaceuticals and other proprietary
items costing less than US$5,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$ 20,000 equivalent, may be procured
directly from manufacturers and authorized local distributors.
Consultants' Services and Training financed by IDA during the first two program years would be for: (i)
studies, preparation of bidding documents, data collection, accounting systems, audit and impact analysis; (ii) long term
technical assistance, short term consultancies on specific technical matters and training; and (iii) training of health
personnel staff. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$2.8 million, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January, 1997. It will be
addressed through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality-and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be
provided. For audits of a standard nature the Least-Cost Selection (LCS)will be the most appropriate method -- the
firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum mark. Consultants
services for hospital advisory services and health financing (estimated at less than US$100,000 per contract up to an
aggregate of US$300,000) would be based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) based only on the consultants'
experience and competence relevant to the assigrnent. The Government of Guinea-Bissau proposed to select AGEOPPE
on a Single Source Selection basis as Construction Management Agency (CMA) for the first two program years which
is acceptable to IDA. In the event that another entity would have to be selected after this period as CMA, it would be
done through QCBS procedures. Services for lectures and small studies which can be delivered by Individual
Consultants will be selected through comparison of qualifications against job description requirements among those
expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly. To ensure that priority is given to the identification of
suitable and qualified national individual consultants, the selection process will first be limited to nationals of Guinea-
Bissau, this will also imply significant cost savings. It is only when no suitable national candidates are identified that
international consultants who expressed interest in the assignment will be considered. Fellowship, research grants will be
awarded in accordance with the consultants guidelines as described above.



Project Appraisal Document                                              Project Tite: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                      Annex 6 - Page 3 of 9
Short-lists for contracts estimated under US$200,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants if a
sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have
expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration. The standard Letter of Invitation and Form of Contract
as developed by the Bank will be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term
assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by individual consultants. The Government was briefed
during negotiations about the special features of the new guidelines, in particular with regards to advertisement and
public bid opening.
The second phase of health staff training will be contracted to the institution (ICBAS) which was originally
selected under the on-going project in accordance with IDA short-list procedures. Following IDA no-objection to select
ICBAS, the contract was divided in two phases, due to shortage of resources under the ongoing IDA financed SSP and
the closing thereof which would have fallen before the completion of the training. This will ensure continuity in the
technical approach and professional liability with regard to the outcomes of this training. However, the second phase
contract will be signed only after ascertaining satisfactory performance during the first phase.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Project Ttle: Natonal Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                          Annex 6 - Page 4 of 9
Table A: Program Costs by Procurement Arrangements
for the first two program years
(in US$ million equivalent including taxes, duties and contingencies)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                     Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB          Other       N.B.F
1. Works                                     0.99        0.10                        1.09
(0.94)      (0.09)                     (1.04)
1.1 for health centers            -          0.73        0.10          -            0.83
(0.69)      (0.09)                     (0.77)
1.2 other civil works             -         0.26           -           -            0.26
boreholes                              (0.25)                                  (0.25)
2. Goods                        0.20         0.32        1.55                        2.07
(0.20)      (0.32)      (1.55)                      (2.07)
2.1 medical equipment           0.20          -            -           -             0.20
(0.20)                                              (0.20)
2.2 equipment/furniture,          -          0.32        010           -             0.42
vehicles                                (0.32)      (0.10)                      (042)
2.3 stock initial                 -           -          0.86          -             0.86
(0.86)                     (0.86)
2.4 replenishment                 -           -          0.59          -             0.59
medicaments                                          (0.59)                     (0.59)
3. Services                                              2.80                        2.80
(2.80)                     (2.80)
3.1 CW contract                   -           -          0.20          -             0.20
management and audit                                    (0.20)                      (0.20)
3.2 TA, Training, studies,        -           -          2.60          -             2.60
short term consultancies                                (2.60)                      (2.60)
4. Miscellaneous                                         0.47                        0.47
(0.46)                     (0.46)
4.1 operating costs               -           -          0.26          -             0.26
(0.25)                     (0.25)
4.2 PPF refinancing               -           -          0.21          -             0.21
(0.21)                     (0.21)
Total Costs                  0.20         1.31        4.92                        6.43
Total Financed by IDA           (0.20)      (1.26)      (4.91)                      (6.37)
N.B. Unallocated                                                                    (5.33)
Total IDA Credit (5 years)                                                         (11.70)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA
credit.



Project Appraisal Document                                            Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                  Annex 6 - Page 5 of 9
IDA Review. All contracts for construction of civil works and purchase of goods above the threshold value of
US$100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The use of IDA's SBD would considerably expedite the
prior review process as IDA review would primarily focus on invitation to bid, bid data sheet, contract data, technical
specifications, bill of quantities/schedule of requirements and other contract-specific items. The review process would
cover about 80 percent of the total value of the amount contracted for goods and about 60 percent of the amount
contracted for civil works. Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply to about one
in three contracts. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB were reviewed by and agreed upon with IDA during
negotiations. The provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior IDA review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts with
firms estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and with individuals estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 each. Prior
IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA review will not apply to the
Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as
determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the prior review threshold. For
consultant contracts estimated above US$200,000, opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving
the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200.000 and more than
US$100,000 the borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial
proposals. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the borrower for
ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The MOPH will be required to maintain all relevant
procurement documentation for subsequent review by IDA. The MOPH will submit to IDA periodic procurement
schedules detailing each procurement in progress and completed as part of the normal project reporting exercise.
All thresholds stated in this section shall be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA on an annual basis.
Modifications may be agreed upon based on performance and actual values of procurements implemented. Amendments
to the Credit agreement may be prepared as necessary.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Value              Procurement            Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threshold)                  Method                 Prior Review
ICB    NCB        Other
_______________ above US$ 100,000          X       -           -        Prior IDA review
below US$ 100,000        -       X   |                No review.
above US$ 20,000                                      Aggregate amount:
US$990,000
below US$ 20,000              |  -          X         No review.
Aggregate amount:
US$100,000
2. Goods
|_____________ |above US$ 100,000          X   |       |                Prior IDA review
below US$ 100,000         -      X   |                No review . Aggregate
above US$ 20,000                                      amount: US$320,000
below US$100,000         -       -       IAPSO or    No review.
UNIPAC      Aggregate amount:
l ______________  l ____________________   l _____   l _____   i ________ l___   U S$1.45    m illion
l______________ lbelow US$ 20,000          -       -          X         No review aggregate



Project Appraisal Document                                           Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                 Annex 6 - Page 6 of 9
amount:
Local: US$50,000
Intern: US$50,000
below US$ 5,000 direct                      X        No review.
purchase from                                        Aggregate amount:
manufacturers or                                     US$20,000
authorized dealers
3. Services                                                            All TORs or sole
source contracts are
subject to IDA prior
review
Audit                     N/A            N/A    N/A      Least Cost        Prior Review
AGEOPPE                   N/A            N/A    N/A    Sole Source         Prior Review
Hospital           below US$100,000      N/A    N/A    Consultants'        Prior Review
Advisory services                                       Qualifications
and health
financing.
Above US$200,000     N/A    N/A          X            Prior Review +
Firms                                                                  Review of Technical
Evaluation Report
before opening
financial proposal
Above US$100,000     N/A    N/A          X
Prior Review +
transmittal of score
obtained on Technical
Evaluation.
Combined evaluation
report
Below US$100,000     N/A    N/A          X
Post Review
Above US$50,000      N/A    N/A          X
Individuals         Below US$50,000      N/A    N/A          X             Prior Review
Post Review
As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will submit a procurement plan for the first two project years.
During negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA: (a) a draft Operational Manual for Project Management and
Implementation including target time periods for the various procurement phases; and (b) standard bidding documents to
be used under NCB procedures for civil works and goods. Agreement was also reached on the proper monitoring of
procurement, as well as the standard procurement documents to be used for NCB. The Government gave assurance at
negotiations that it would (a) use the Operational Manual for Project Implementation; (b) use the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for ICB; (c) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in the above documents;
and (d) review the procurement plan and procurement arrangements each year at the annual review with IDA and other
donors. During implementation, all bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and draft contracts transmitted to IDA for
review will contain an updated copy of the procurement planning. Procurement information will be collected and
recorded as follows:



Project Appraisal Document                                             Project Title: Natonal Health Development Program
Country: Gulnea-Bissau                                                                    Annex 6 - Page 7 of 9
(a)    prompt recording of contract award information by the Borrower; and
(b)    semi-annual reports to the Bank by the Borrower indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total project, including best estimates of allowances for contingencies; (ii) revised
timing of estimated procurement actions, including experience with completion time and completion
cost for individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.
A detailed procurement plan for works, goods and services to be procured under the two first project years was
prepared and is annexed to the implementation manual. It will be reviewed and updated on a regular basis during annual
reviews. The Government gave assurance at negotiations that it would take the necessary measures to ensure that
procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Maximum number of weeks
* Preparation of bidding documents              4 (12 for large contracts)
• Preparation of bids by bidders                4 (6 for ICB)
* Bid evaluation                                2 (4 for large contracts)
* Signature of contracts                        2
* Payments                                      4
Disbursement
The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA credit will be disbursed over a period of six
years (from 1998 to 2003), with a closing date of December 31, 2003. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in
Table D. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for contracts not subject
to prior review by IDA. For the rest, disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by
MOPH or AGEOPPE. Supporting documentation will be retained by MOPH or AGEOPPE and will be available for
review as requested by IDA supervision missions and program auditors.



Project Appraisal Document                                           Project Tile: National Heafth Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                  Annex 6 - Page 8 of 9
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in            Financing
US$million          Percentage
1. Works                                          1.10                95%
2. Goods (including Medical equipment, drugs,     2.08          100% of foreign and
reagents, office equipment, vehicles, and                          95% of local
furniture)                                                         expenditures
3. Services (including long term TA, short term   2.80                100%
consultancy, civil works contract management
and training)
4. Operating Costs                                0.27                95%
5. Unallocated                                    5.24
6. PPF                                            0.21
Total IDA credit                     11.70
$ Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of program implementation, management and
supervision, including office supplies, office equipment and vehicles operation and maintenance and travel and
allowances including those for trainers and trainees, but excluding salaries of officials of the borrower's civil service
Table D: Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (US$ million)
IDA         1998       1999      2000       2001       2002       2003
Fiscal Year
Annual          0.75       2.25.      2.70       2.45       1.95       1.60
Cumulative      0.75       3.00       5.70       8.15      10.10      11.70
Cumulative      6%         25%        49%       70%        86%        100%
A Special Account will be opened for the IDA credit and maintained with a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA.
The maximum balance in the Special Account will be US$300,000, which will cover about 4 months of expenditures,
including advance to AGEOPPE on account of civil works program, to be disbursed from the Special Account.



Projic Appraisal Document                                                                                                            Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                                                                                                   Annex 6 - Page 9 of 9
PLAN PROVISOIRE DE
FINANCEMENTIDA ET BAD DU PNDS
PNDS- PLANO PROVISORIODE FINANCIAMENTOIDA E BAD
Vorsm ern milham de dlares
RUBRICASDEDESPESA                                            IDA                               BAD        Totls
Codig. PNDS                     199S       1999     198+1999  2000-2002    Total    198-2000  IDA+RAD
1.0.0    Cbisos de ftncioomaento                   429         426         855       1 932      2 787       1050       30
I.1.0    Coustaofawdoampasood                       40          40         so         120        200          20         220
1.1.3    Perdiems delocapts                         40          40          so        120         200         20         220
LZO     M-iV _s        o nso        ndk            297         294        591       1536        2127         914       3041
1.2-1    Medicenosos(lncl. ooMtpaofopvos)          297         294         591       1536       2 127                  212
1.2.2    Mratrisereagong s                                                   0                      0        914          914
1.39 Gl    66 t7 oseias de consmo,ra                92          92        184         276         460        117         $77
1.3.1    Maleil de escAtSdo                         52          52         104        156         26                     260
1.3.2    Combustiveis                               40          40 1        0         120         200         60         260
1.3.3    Ot-o niaiis de consuooo00                                                                            1             
TCCeph2e                                                           2                                  4          4
Dopos.lot o~dc Iovsotosvn                    20          2220          2 60     364           204                     2009 194
ZLO Ereshf                                                  962        96 98 0             2 8           26           969
21.1    Como feleNoua                             2          108;        1082        1600 600    12          144       9 620
Hosptal SitoMerxles                                                                                 577 9      S 77
C. MenS                                                                                              129         120
Quinar                                                                                                1 41      411
Bi.omo                                                                                               19O         19
SB                                                 =                      =                          226        226
SAB                                                                                                   10          10
CstC  5                                                           50                     50                     50
CSIB 102 0                                            225         225                    225       222
CDeposio Medi  2m00o0 2                                            20  20                                        20
- NSM                                                                                                 05    -    0f
CS.C                                                   25 2a                              2                      25
Sede                                                   36          36                     3 6                    36
DepositoftedicMoenoUS                                 20          20                     201                    20
Infraesrutulgarew                                     300         300                    300                    300
Nio Idenfibado                                                               435         432002  5 11662 162 I 1
A     L Rs                                0          2          59ri71                 10           0            0
C. Motor                                                                                   0           0 
C. Mentd                                                                                   0           0 
21.L2    Reabifitag6es                               0           0 t                                t        272         272
HNSM                                                                                                 121        128
Quinara                                                                                              11=1
Bolr"an&1 
SAB                                                                                                   70         1
Hospital SimloMaxndt5                                                                                  0 
22G'    Trhrnpart                                  200         10e        30t           0         Jo#        20          5  I
Cell corsd                                 200        10          300                    300          so        355
HNSM                                                                                                  S          S5
C. Mental                                                                                             25         25
Ournar                                                                                                30         30
Balama                                                                                                35         35
Bijr4gos                                                                                              55         55
23 e    E 4uaenas                                 Ie54         UG0       I 184        434       1 618        S99       2 609
2 31    Eq.g4drtas 6dicom                          lOt         let        200         216          1         780       119
2 3.2    3*dicrrmo, Srock inicial                  86^                    864.                   864         21 z      10ot
Z.3.3    M-obi/iarios                               5t          It         61         10          169                    1 I
23.34    Ouirx equlipanentos                        40          20          60        l09         169                    IO9
2.5.1    Assislenia Tecnica de ionga durYcabd      165         165        330                     330       2347       2 677
2 5.2    Servico de -onultotes bwwnaorrai.,       951         643       1594        1 320      2 M 1    575           3M4
AuditDia                                                                                            722         225
Contsal com Ageope                                                                                   350        350
r Fas oontw poagradualo mtdicos           300         200         50                     Soo                    5a0
Soeia Mkatmgof condorms                    556i       341         904       106 i        96        1966
_   A T. A dedinir                              50          5i  0           10      1 O      209                     20i
Auditorias                                  45         45          90         15i        240                    240
25.3    ConsIrronaslocail                           40         10C         140l       250         3901         C         390
_   Contalocom AgoDpeC                          20          so         toolIs     15i.       2501           1        250
Coosut.isaddfini,                          20          20          4i        loi         14014
PPF                                        210                    21i            i       210121
N_e distribuido                                                              435         435        1692       2127
TOTAL GERAL                              34          2 646      S 695       5 971     U!aq        1 151       25 '317






Project Appraisal Document                                           Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                 Annex 7 - Page 1 of 1
Annex 7
National Health Development Program
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Program Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
66.1
B. Program Schedule                             Planned              Actual
66.1
Time taken to prepare the program (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                                  10/23/95
Appraisal mission departure                     6/23/97              06/23/97
Negotiations                                    9/22/97              10/06/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    1/2/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Public Health (MOPH).
Preparation assistance: on going Social Sector Project; PHRD Grant; PPF; co-financiers.
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Mimes/Messrs Tonia Marek, Task Manager;
Eugene Boostrom, Senior Public Health Specialist; Jo Martins, Senior Health Economist;
Slaheddine Ben-Halima, Senior Operations Officer, Marie-Madeleine Ndaw, Task Team
Assistant at Senegal Resident Mission; Rudi Chevannes, Task Team Assistant at Headquarters;
and Paul Geli, Consultant, Institutional Development.



Project Appraisal Document                                            Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                    Annex 8 - Page 1 of 1
Annex 8
National Health Development Program
Documents in the Project File
A. Program Implementation Plan
Ministry of Public Health - Programme National de Developpement Sanitaire 1997-2001, Bissau, Mai 1997
(Tomes 1 and 2)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Economic Analysis, by Girard Schmets, June 1997
* Note Technique sur les ressources humaines et laformation (Annex 5 of Aide-Memoire, Appraisal mission
June 23, 1997)
* Rapport des activitis de recherche participative en Guinee-Bissau, by Robert Davis, May 1996.
C. Other
1. Formulation d'un projet pour assurer la securite des transfusions de sang en Guinee-Bissau, Rapport
Provisoire, by Dr Marcel Monny Lobe, March 1996.
2. Revisao do programa nacional dos medicamentos essencials na perspectiva da iniciativa de Bamako,
Relat6rio de Missao, by the Royal Tropical Institute, July 1995.
3. The Bamako Initiative program in Guinea Bissau: Assessment, analysis and recommendations, Mission
report, by Agnes Soucat, May 1995.
4. Avaliacao e plano para reforco do programa nacional de luta contra a tuberculose na Guine-Bissau,
Relat6rio da missao, by J. V. Kuyvenhoven, December 1996.
5. Consultoria sobre o desenvolvimento dos recursos humanos em saude: Ministerio da saude Pzublica, Guine-
Bissau, by Mario Roberto Dal Poz, February 1996.
6. Plano estrategico de luta anti-sida Guine-Bissau.
7. Administrative modernization of Guinea-Bissau hospitals, Consultancy report, by Dr Humberto de Moraes
Novaes, January 29 - February 13, 1997.
Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                                                                                   Project Tite: National Health Development Program
Cownby: Guinea-Bissau                                                                                                                                                   Annex 9 - Page 1 of 2
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea-Bissau
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                               IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 19
Active Loans
GW-PE-1015    IDA29600      1997   GOVT OF GUB                       BASIC EDUCATION                  0.00       14.30             0.00         14.37     14.26       0.00
GW-PE-35915   IDA27480      1995   REPUBLIC OF GUB                   TRANSP.& URBAN INFRA             0.00       22.00            0.00           8.01     10.46       0.00
GW-PE-1002    IDA24650      1993   GOVT OF GUI-BISSAU  U             SOCIAL                           0.00        8.80            0.00           1.98       1.71      0.00
GW-PE-1011    IDA23420      1992   GOVERNMENT OF GUB                 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             0.00        7.20            0.00           1.94       1.78      1.80
GW-PE-1000    IDA22370      1991.  GOVERNMENT                        ENERGY                           0.00       15.15            0.00           4.28      3.55       3.56
Total                                                                                                 0.00       67.45            0.00         30.58      31.76       5.36
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 35.65              1X4.44              210.09
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                4.11                4.11
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 67.45              161.08              228.53
Amount sold                     :                 0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :               30.58                0.00               30.58
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Project Appraisal Document                                              Project Title: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                      Annex 9 - Page 2 of 2
Guinea-Bissau
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jul-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic  Loan  Equit  Quasi  Partic
y                               y
1994            AEF Agribissau       .75    .09    0.00    0.00    .75    .09    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  .75    .09    0.00    0.00    .75    .09    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Eguit Ouasi Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Project ritle: National Health Development Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                                                        Annex 10- Page 1 of 2
Guinea-Bissau at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Guinea-  Saharan      LoW-
Bissau     Africa  incom       Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        1t1        60                          Life expectancy
GNP per capIta 1996 (USS)                              250       490      500L
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                               027        294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                         2.1        2.7      1.7     GNP                               Gras
Labor force (%)                                        1.8       2.6       1.7     perpiy
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            capita                        enrollment
Poverty headcount index (X cf population)               49
Urban population (% dtofapopulation)                    22        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (yeaws)                        44        52       63
Infant mortalirty (per 1.000 live birlts)              138        92       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutntion (% dchilotren under 5)
Access to safe water (% rfpcpulabon)                    25        47       53
Illiteracy (% ofpopuIabon age I5.)                      74        43       34                 Guineaissau
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of school-age pcpulabon)     50        72      10- Ob-ine   grou
Male                                                  64        78      112           LoinOO#flegroup
Femaie                                                35        65       98
KEY ECONOiIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     100S      1996     1996
Economl6 rmlos'
GDP (milions US$)                          109.0    157.7      253.9    271.2
Gross domestic investmentGOP                 15.4     40.8       22.9    26.9
Exports of goods and services/GOP             5 2      8.9       11.7     105              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   -5.4     -2.9       -0.6      5.7
Gross national savings/GDP                    -3.1    -3.9        6.7     1Z3
Currenyt account baIanctGDP                     -.   -41.8      -16.1    -14.6
Interest payments/GOP                         0.0      1.4        1.8      1.5     Savings                  I Investment
Total debtVGOP                                7.2    197.2      351.0    334.9
Total debt service/exports                            46.3       321      43.9
Present value of debttGDP
Present value of debt/exports                                                                  indebtedness
1976-86  1986-96    1996       1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                -     Guinea-B1issau
GOP                                  2.2      4.0      4.4        5.1      4.9
GNP per capita                      -0.8      0.3      0.9        3.7      2.7               L   io       up
Exports of goods and services       -5.7     104      -22.0       8.9      4.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOUW
1976     1906      1096     1996      G Growti rates of output and Invesbernt I%)
(% of GDP)
Agnculture                                   47.8     42.4       5561     53.8     0
Industry                                     25.4     14.3       122      109    1 40
Manufacturing                                ...   1 20 
Services                                     26.9     43.3       327      353    | 0' 
Pnvate consumpbon                            825      86.6      92 0      851   1 -40             2
General government consumption               22 9     16.4        8.7      9.2    !
Imports of goods and services                25.9     5Z6       35.1     31.7 
1975-86  1986-96      1996     1996
(average annual growth)                    9       1rowt rates of etporte and inport (%)
Agnculture                                   -2.0      3.9        6.6      7.5   |     soo
Industry                                      3-9      4.2        2.6      2.6     so
Manufacturing                                        3.5        4.1      3.0   |  
Services                                      8 6      4.9        2.1      3.0 2/
Pnvate consumption                            2.6      2.9        1.1      3 6      0                                    -
General government consumpron                 4.3      3.2       -1.4     10.4     .
Gross domestic investment                     4.0      4 6       25.5      3 4     eo
Imports of goods and services                 3.0     -2.6      -7.0       2.3
Gross nabonal product                         2 6      2.4        3.0      5.8                   8xiorti    ImPorts
Note. 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incornplete



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Project Title: National Health Developrnent Program
Country: Guinea-Bissau                                                                                                      Annex 10 - Page 2 of 2
Guinea-Bissau
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996     1996      Irdon(%
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        to
Consurmer prices                               .. ..             45.4     56.6 e
Implicl GDP deflator                          7.2     45.1       44.7     48.3    40
Govermtentfinance                                                                  20
(% ofGOP)                                                                           0.
Current revenue                                 ..    27.5       28.3     23.7            61   82   t3   t4   95   8e
Currentbudgetbalance                            ..     4.4       13.0      7-9              -     GDPdef.   eCPI
Overal surplus/defiit                          ..   -36.5        -2.1    -12.2
TRADE
(m,1l"ons UIS$)                              1976     1986      1995     1996      Export and importhveIs(mill.tJ5t
Total exports (fob)                             .        .        24       22      100
Cashew Nuts                                   --       5         21       19      80
Fish and Shrimpsr.                                     3          0        1 
Manufactures                                                                      O
Total inorts (cd2                                       69    72   69   UM
Food.                                                 17         26       22      3
Fueland energy                               ..a 
Capital goods                                ..       13         16       1 3 
Exprt prioe index (1987=100)                   ..       ..        82        S6             9  1   92    3   94  as  9tt
Importpniceindex(1987-100)                      .        ..      134      127                  oExpoft    olsot
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       .           ..    61       6S
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996     1996
(mUots USS)                                                                        Current accournt balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   .       20        30       29       0
'Inports of goods and services                  .       82        89       86         t0   ai  92 t3         4 |    9 4 98
Resource balance                                ,      -62        -60      -57     °-1
Net income                                      ..      -5         7        -5    -1_
Net current transfers                          ..        1        25       23    -20
Current account balance,                                                           -25
before official capital transfers             ..    -66         -41      -40    -30
Financing items (net)                          ..       83        41       51    -36
Changes in net reserves                        *-      -17         0       -11    -40
Memo:
Reserves includrig gold (mill. US$)            ..       ..        22       24
Conversion rate lbcahVSS)                    41.4    160.0  18,072.5  26,373.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1985      1996     1996
(mUillons USS)                                                                     Convoslon of total debt. 1996 (sill. US1)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            8      311       891      908
IBRD                                          0        0         0        0
IDA                                           0       44       210      224                                  B
Total debt servioe                              0        9        14       20
[SRO                                          0        0         0        0
IDA                                           0        0         2        3
Composition of nt resource flowrs
Oflicial grants                               0        0         0        0
Official creditors                            8       38        13        19
Privat creditors                              0       20         0        0             D
Foreign direct investment                     0        0         0        0            684
Pofftio equity                                0        0         0        0
Wortd Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0        22        0      A - IBRD                    E - silateral
Disbursemnents                                0       15        11        8       B-IDA    D- Other muublateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                          0        0         1         1      C - IMF                    G - Short-terr
Net flovws                                    0       15        10        7
Interest payments                             0        0         1        2
Net transfers                                 0       14         9        6
Developmetnt Economics                                                                                              8/25/97



MAP SECTION






6                                                             16'                                                            14'
Ej.,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sno                                                                                  So, Beo               Pieo    cc op
GUINEA-BISSAU                                                                                            s ENEGAL
_   /   O  omingos   O IngoreO              ,9ene  )   e            o                                 Sonc;   ONemotobo                   0         coi        B orcotoma
-~~   cs~" Dontingos  logcre0  Borro       0           lo~~~Cnteirom6i.
Aasaloi     ______               S/e          edeeal                                                                      0 OoraajCa4d_                       ~ich  
Vqt'CoX_>>/3)/Ggachen  o4 n Viconte                 0           Mafj/ IamomudaOZ<> 0abiculda GO                                  0 a             0
A  T L A  N  T I C             ,0>       C A CH EU  h                 \       °  ,sor .                         ( /\,I   Cobse             0Ccn,odo  jXUocubc            aua                
OCEFA  N                            lc4iqisneO                      oc°  ooj                          o,t o  ,chei     \      C            Bijine                  G   A   B   U     
C,                  z                                       l                                     ,nRossun,n Bome  cc
0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS              JETA        '- s??, ' ,t    Q iQui   l   ,   -k    wz   0-X                                            cia-                           - °2(                       / B  en, '
e    REGION CAPITALS                                   PEIX---,    ' CPcxt o Poabrv ,''    :',                 ~,'  Pro                                      OilLq4elB1ieO-- 
6F   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                'naia        et jOBabg   ,,     ; n / g   ¢e   Gcoiotao0   ePolncunsdcklsv'r                                               w madi~no doba Beoeii
lojon~~~~~~~~te~~~~'  ,-  /.                    o0aimC- .6 
!;CARACtt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '-.d-                                                                   bic d.b    tG' '\ tt ':  ¢fh z,>i2Q        MUIAI
'/  '(   Broed6q~~~~~(M    6egeci                                   J7        /    i)   oM..d
REGION BOUNDARIS-                                            0c-t  -                                    i 0  '.M 3 _tI           bU                                    Voo6
-A -   -INI A TIO ENAL-BOUNDARIESAB CBb.R 0,, no\_                                                                                                                                                               _
--+N OC                                                                                       B.I6ma6a,et             G U         I N E A/
l,o  rheboundaries cozors                 ,J cACP, FORMOA1    OAUNI-IT                                     x,)    9:-Ao5tue                                              IN 6/2                                    BUKN
6                     '6                 /Obtiotc.Bi5cy                     0                         GcA  '  /
OCEANhIeqrG                            s ifrao                                                                                               BineNA  V   l I    V  -          ,/,9            MAURITANIA
12'                                                                  -LRHIEAG   ~     <~JR  QA                             TOMBABAFAT
TheWorld8ankGroup~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.su                                                                  Bam6o ,4  r                                                                           12'L-E>'8COE .
CUT ar any endOrsencent   °  ,   20    | 40    1   60   80  \Nh.c,,L/-  A-,  Cobonsllm 0B                                         Piton->
&ioC-    q- CR onf Bbqomi~R         0,1     (    ''                                               h~0cocqo~oo~             H         EEA    <M L
*     SEECTD CIIESAND  OWN                                  Quiome BO M     '6r'O,R~®                                                                       GAMBA60                 C 
JEaA                                                 -           U                                 I   Nr Er       A 0 such   O     A
*              REIO    CAITL                                                                 _  _ IS,0AU  ,
N AThIsOpNdo n   APT A                                                  VAAOF'.''I'                                                                                               IR~
imply, on the part of  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    MR5O                                  5                                                                  EONE y"~~~~~~ ,Cog,egriTE
arty judgment on lIne 10901                             PORAC                                                                                                         /~~~~~~~~o,  n.6w
or any endorsement  ii.     is          ii                                                                                                                                   /               4   N)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M l~t. 0  ,4
boondaries.   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~qw                   16'                                                              15    N0'..6)



