Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLf
Report No. 6620-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
May 28, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restictee distdbution and may be used by redput only In the performanee of
their oMcial duties. Its cntents may not otherwise be disclosed w=   World Bnk authoraon.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (Mex $)
On May 12, 1987, the exchange rate
in the controlled market was
US$1 = Mex$ 1,218.30; the free market
exchange rate stood at US$1 = Mex$ 1,214.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ANAGSA        -      National Insurance Company, S.A.
BANRURAL      -     National Rural Credit Bank.
DGA           -     Director General for Agricultural Development
(Normatividad Agricola)
DGPO          -      Director General for Producer Organization and
Community Affairs
FICART        -     Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed
Areas.
FIRA          -     Agricultural Trust Funds in Bank of Mexico.
IICA          -      International Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
INIA          -     National Institute for Agricultural Research.
INIFAP        -     National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture
and Livestock Research.
INIF          -      National Institute for Forestry Research.
INIP          -     National Institute for Livestock Research.
NAFIN         -     Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
PLAN PUEBLA   -     Puebla Maize Development Scheme.
PLANAT        -      Plan to Improve Rainfed Agriculture.
PROCATI       -      Producer Organization, Training, Extension
and Research Project = Agricultural Extension
Project
PRODERITH     -      Program for Development of the Humid Tropics.
PRONADRI      -      National Program for Integrated Rural Development,
1985-88.
SC            -     Service Centers.
RDD           -     Rural Development Districts.
SARH          -     Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources.
SHCP          -      Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit.
SOE           -     Statement of Expenditure.
SPP           -     Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting.
UAIM          -     Women's Agroindustrial Unit
(Unidad Agricola Industrial de la Mujer)



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLy
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY *.,.............        ......             1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                   eo o o  aav.o .. ............... 3
Past Policies and Performance ................*.......    3
Present Agricultural Policy *.............................    4
Extension and Research Subsector  ..........,     ..............    4
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector        ..............    6
Bank Experience in Extension and Research in Mexico ....o.      6
Bank's Overall Strategy         7................................    7
lIII  THE PROJECT                                                       7
Background and Rationale         ..............                 7
Objectives                  ..............   8
Project Area  ...     ...................                       9
Detailed Description ***v*v*@e*b**ve¢                          10
Project Implementationr                                        13
costs                          .............      ....... o    13
Financing                                                      14
Special Account                                                14
Procurement                                                    14
Disbursements     ....................... ^                    15
Accounts and Audit                                             15
Monitoring and Evaluation *...o......ooo...o..e...........   16
Benefits, Incremental Production, Marketing and Inputs 0.0   16
Sustainability ..................... .. .e.........oo   17
Environmental and Sociological Impact .......-........    18
Project Risks *...............e.,...,.,......,.                18
IV.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........    19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in October 1986. The mission comprised Messrs. M. Wilson, T. Prins,
A. Tobelem (Bank), M. Hagerstrom, R. Laird and C. Ponceano (Consultants),
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1a   Extension              ...........   e o                          20
2.   Research e........ .............................*..   25
3.   Administrative Changes in SARH ..........................,..   29
4.   Institutional and Manpower Development .....,.......,.*.*.*.    30
5.   Monitoring and Evaluation ......i.i.i.i......... ...*...   34
6.   Project Costs and Financing .........e.....e..............    37
Table  1 - Project Cost Summary .,........................   37
Table  2 - Financing Plan by Summary Accounts *........,    38
Table  3 - Proposed Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement .........   39
Table  4 - Estimated Disbursement Schedule ...............   40
Table  5 - Summary Accounts by Year ..........,...........   41
Table  6 - Annual Project Cost by Componentt                    42
Table  7 - Summary Accounts by Project Component *........   43
Table  8 - Physical Targets:  by District ................. 44
7.   Production and Benefits .................................. 45
8.   List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project Technical File ......................e...........    54
CHARTS
I*   SARH                               J*-v^**...¢ ................e55
2.   State Delegation                                                  56
3.   Rural Development District ..                                     57
MAP: IBRD 20373



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN).
Guarantor:          United Mexican States.
Beneficiary:        Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(SARH)e
Amount:             US$20.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project             The proposed project would promote the setting in place
Objectives:         of an extension methodology similar to the Training and
Visit (T&V) system to enhance the quality, efficiency and
effectiveness of Mexico's extension service. It would
improve agricultural productivity and income, and thereby
help alleviate rural poverty. In this context, it would:
(i) develop a better understanding of farmers' needs
prior to beginning extension service activities;
(ii) focus extension on priority areas, farmer
organizations using technology proven under field
conditions, and women's groups; (iii) improve
coordination between extension, farmers, research, input
suppliers and credit agencies; (iv) focus adaptive
research on validation and diffusion of technology;
(v) promote a more cost-effective extension system and a
greater sharing of extension costs by farmers in higher
income areas; (vi) stimulate further development of
private extension services; and (vii) streamline the
operations of SARH.
Project             The proposed project would test extension strategies in
Description:        20 of Mexico's 192 Rural Development Districts (RDD).
Proj ct areas are representative of two of the country's
four major agroecological zones: the irrigated areas of
the arid northwest and the temperate central highlands.
It would finance: (a) training programs for extension
personnel, researchers and farmers; (b) construction of
limited office facilities at SARH service centers;
(c) procurement of vehicles and equipment for extension
and research personnel; and (d) recurrent expenditures of
the extension service.
Beneficiaries:      About 400,000 small and ejido farmers on about 1.8
million ha are expected to benefit from the project. At
full development, it would also provide additional
employment opportunities equivalent to about 11,200 full
time jobs in intensified crop and livestock production
activities and would promote the development of women's
groups in agricultural production and related activities.



- 2 -
Pro ect Risks:      The main risks include: (a) shortage of counterpart
funds; (b) inadequate coordination between agencies;
(c) farmer unwillingness to adopt technical
recommendations; and (d) insufficient incentives to
motivate extension personnel. Remedies have been
developed. With regard to counterpart funds, Government
has approved budget allocations for 1987 in line with
appraisal estimates. Linkages between agencies would be
strengthened under the project. A major effort would be
made to involve farmers in the identification and
evaluation of technical packages to be promoted under the
project. Furthermore, improved training and financial
incentive schemes to be promoted under the project are
expected to provide sufficient incentive to create
motivated, professional extension staff. Finally, the
Bank intends to provide close supervision of the project
to ensure that the lessons learned are incorporated into
the national extension system.
Estimated Costs: 1/                   Local          Foreign          Total
(----- (US$ Million)
Extension                              48.0             9.8            57.8
Training                                4.3             4.2             8.5
Research                                2.1             0.9              3.0
Monitoring and Evaluation               0.3             -                0.3
Base Cost                           54.7            14.9            69.6
Physical Contingencies                  0.4             0.4             0.8
price Contingencies                     1.8             1.6             3.4
Total project Cost                  56.9            16.9            73.8
Financing Plan:                       Local          Foreign          Total
…  ~~~--- - (US$ Million)
Government                             53*8             _              53.8
Bank                                    3.1            16.9            20.0
Total                           56.9           16.9             73.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:                        1988     1989      1990     1991     1992
(US$ Million) --
Annual                           0.8      3.8       7.6      6.8      1.0
Cumulative                       0.8      4.6     12.2      19.0     20.0
Map:  IBRD 20373
11   Rounded.  Excluding taxes and duties.



- 3 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Past Policies and Performance
2.01      The agricultural sector contributes about 9% of GDP (with
agro-industry contributing approximately another 7% to GDP), employs about
25% of the labor force, and provides some 26% of non-oil exports. However,
rural incomes are extremely low with 78% of rural households earning incomes
less than 30% of the national average. Rural-to-urban migration continues to
be a problem, slowed only by the deteriorating urban situation brought on by
the economic crisis. Because of its large share of employment, the dire
poverty of many rural areas, and the historically important political role of
the sector, the Government considers the revitalization of agriculture to be
an important economic and social element in the structural recovery of
Mexico.
2.02      The concern about agriculture is heightened by the recent
lackluster performance of the sector, relative to its historically dynamic
role. After World War II to the mid-1960s, Mexican agriculture was a
success, growing faster than in any other Latin Ararican country. Employment
and income rose rapidly in the rural sector as cultivated and irrigated areas
expanded. Thus, in the 1950 to 1965 period, agricultural GDP growth averaged
4.3% per annum, well in excess of the population growth of slightly over 3%.
However, beginning in the late 1960s, several factors began to converge to
retard growth. As the costs of bringing marginal land into production rose,
expansion of irrigated areas slowed down. In the 1970s, exchange rate and
pricing policies discriminated against agriculture and further contributed to
the deceleration of the growth of agricultural production. As income growth
in other sectors and rapid population growth of over 3% per year increased
the demand for food, food imports increased and the sector's share of exports
fell. While before 1970, Mexico produced sufficient food to feed its
population and export substantial surpluses, by the end of the 1970s, it had
become a major importer of basic foodstuffs. These adverse circumstances
resulted in a growth rate of agricultural GDP averaging 2.4% per annum
between 1965 and 1980, compared to overall GDP growth of arcand 6% and
industrial GDP growth of around 7%.
2.A3      In March 1980, the Government resorted to drastic remedies to
reverse the decline of agriculture by making use of the growing revenues from
oil. Higher support prices, more input subsidies, and expansion in
subsidized credit, coinciding with favorable weather, led to a substantial
increase of agricultural production of 6% in 1980 and in 1981. However, with
declining oil prices, rising interest rates and debt service, and growing
consumer subsidies, these Government actions in support of agriculture proved
to be unsustainable. In 1982, when farmgate prices were allowed to fall in
real terms in the face of high inflation, agricultural production declined by
1%. At the end of 1982, the costly push for agricultural recovery was
largely abandoned; the set of policies designed to solve food problems by
channelling much of the country's new petroleum wealth into the sector and
into providing cheap food for urban dwellers was an early victim to Mexico's
continuing economic crisis.



- 4 -
2.04      Beginnirg in 1983 and thraugh the 1985 crop year, agricultural
production recovered moderately to an average growth of about 2.52, primarily
due to a supportive exchange rate and favorable weather. However, in 1986,
agricultural production fell by close to 3%. Crop output declined by 3.52,
partly due to poo. weather, while livatock production fell as demand for meat
and milk contracted dramatically (a result of falling inc'mes and the high
income elasticity of demand for these products) and higher costs of
production and price controls made it difficult to maintain profits in this
sector, However, increasing exports (led by coffee and fresh fruits and
vegetables) and declining consumption of hlgher valued products (particularly
meat and thus imported feedgrains), produced a substantial agricultural trade
surplus estimated at over US$1 billion.  This was the first agricultural
trade surplus since 1979.
2.05      With rural poverty remaining oppressive, world markets for
agricultural commmodities depressed, and the economic crisis forcing declines
in urban food demand, the Government continues to seek remediea to critical
rural problems. Fiscal constraints prevent it from reverting to the kinds of
costly subsidy policies used in the early 19809, however, and the Government
has instead turned its attention to increasing the efficiency of production,
improving the effectiveness of remaining subsidies and public Investments,
and reducing its intervention in the market. In this context, the Government
has decided to push aggressively for policy reforms that will bring about
greater sectoral efftciency.
Present Agricultural Policy
2.06      As part of its stabilization and structural reform program, the
Mexican Government has taken bold steps to reform agricultural and food
policy, including reducing the fiscal burden of food and agricultural input
subsidies, liberalizing agricultural trade, reorganizing and reducing excess
staff in the Ministry of Agriculture, and eliminating unsound public
investments. An integral part of Government's strategy is SARH's 1985-1988
National Program for Integrated Rural Development (PRONADRI). The Bank
endorses the objectives of PRONADRI which, inter alia, aims to: (a) increase
farm productivity through more efficient extension services; (b) improve the
agricultural trade balance: (c) improve incomes of the rural poor;
(d) reduce and target subsidies; and (e) provide more direct assistance to
the rural sector, particularly to low-income farmers and thereby reduce rural
to urban migration. Government is also taking steps to decentralize
planning, programming and implementation of rural development projects to
delegate greater authority to state and local levels and to improve
inter-agency coordination.
Extension and Research Subsector
2.07      Extension.  Mexico's extension services have evolved in step with
agricultural policy. Between the 19508 and the mid-1970s, growth in
agricultural production resulted from an expansion in cultivated area, mainly
by bringing newly irrigated land into production. However, productivity
increased slowly. By the mid-1970s it became clear that a greater emphasis
needed to be given to rainfed areas, small farmers and improvement
of productivity. At the time there were about 1,000 public extension staff
who provided mainly engineering support in irrigated areas. However, by the
early 1980s SARH's extension staff had grown to about 12,400 technical staff,
each of whom, according to SARHt's estimates, was servicing an average of
300-350 farmers and 1,200-1,500 ha of cropped land. The cost of providing



- 5-
extension and research support to Mexican agriculture was estimated in 1980
at 2.1% of agricultural gross value of production (GVP), compated to an
average value for othar middle-income countries of about 1.7% of GVP.
Details are given in Annex 1.
2.08      When the current Government took office, it recognized that
extension services had made little impact on technical change and improving
farm incomes despite this large staff build-up. Furthermore, the service
comprised large numbers of low quality staff who had little formal contact
with agricultural research. This disappointing situation led SARH to agree
to a subsector review of Mexico's extension services (Bank Report No. 5255,
dated November 11, 1984). The recommendations of this report (para, 2.12)
led to the preparation of the proposed project and the beginning of a change
in SARH's approach to its extension service. The present SARH administration
is determined to make the service more efficient, streamlined, cost effective
and responsive to farmers' needs.
2.09      Administratively SARH has begun to decentralize its activities.
Chart 1 outlines the structure at the federal level and Chart 2 the set-up at
SARH's state delegations. At the federal level, the Subsecretary of
Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry Development is responsible for
establishing the technical norms of extension services through its Directors
General of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry. In addition, the
semi-autonomous National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock
Research reports to the Subsecretary. SARH State Delegates report to a
Coordinator of Delegations who in turn reports directly to the Secretary of
Agriculture. Linkages between the Coordinator and the Subsecretary occur
through regular meetings of federal technical committees, however, these
formal links need to be considerably improved. At the state level, SARH
operates a system of RDD, within which there are an average of about four
Service Centers (SC) where extension, research, credit and input supply
agencies are to coordinate their efforts. This coordination occurs through
participation in RDD technical committees and SC municipal committees
comprising SARH, other service agencies and farmers, however, these again
need to be considerably improved and in many cases actually made operational.
2.10      Research.  Agricultura'l research in Mexico has a long and respected
tradition of qu-Flity research especially in irrigated crop agriculture. It
is currently directed by the National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and
Livestock Research (INIFAP). INIFAP was formed in 1985 from the union of
three previously separate institutes for crop (INIA), livestock (INIP) and
forestry (INIF) research. However, the reorganization of agricultural
research is still underway and SARH is considering decentralizing research
and linking it more closely with the state-level agricultural university
system. As in most countries, INIFAP has been able to attract and hold the
better agricultural graduates from Mexico's university svstem but has not
been effective at focusing its research on the specific needs of farmers.
Research work is largely carried out on research stations and there is
inadequate field testing of research station results under farm conditions
(validation). Recommendations are often made in leaflets for: (a) more
sophisticated farmers who have better research contacts; or (b) extension
agents who may have a demonstration plot on a farmer's field, however, the
messages being demonstrated are often not needs-based because of the absence
of a faimer-to-researcher feedback mechanism. Details are given in Annex 2.



- 6 -
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
2.11      Between 1976-1986, Bank lending t^ agriculture totalled US$2,727
million among 20 projects. During the past year, completion reports have
been issued on two projects. In general, implementation of ongoing projects
has been satisfactory. However, tihe economic crisis of the recent past has
caused severe shortages of counterpart funds. This has slowed the
Implementation of all but the credit projects and has led to che premature
closure of two loans and the reduction in scope and partial cancellation of
others. Some procurement problems have also been encountered. With SARH's
local competitive bidding procedures on civil works contracts, there have
been problems with: (i) the short length of bidding period; and (ii) failure
to seek ex-ante approval from the Bank of certain contracts above previously-
agreed thresholds. Government has also been unwilling to permit ICB for
vehicle and equipment purchase. These issues are under discussion with
Government.
Bank Experience in Extension and Research in Mexico
2.12      In 1984, the Bank carried out a subsector study to evaluate
extension services in Mexico. This included an analysis of individual
programs promoted in different regions by Government as well as the Bank's
experience with research and extension components in several projects. Some
of the factors identified as being important to successful extension services
in Mexico included: (i) working directly with farmers' groups; (ii) high
levels of extension coverage for a short period followed by less intensive
coverage after extension agents and farmers had been trained; (iii) use of
mass media techniques (video) to increase coverage and reduce unit costs; and
(iv) strong and timely budgetary support. On the other hand, typical
problems included: (a) inadequate local development planning and farmer
involvement; (b) poor coordination of extension with other agricultural
inputs such as credit, where local banking limits often did not permit use of
all inputs included in the improved technical package being promoted by
extension agents; and (c) failure to integrate into the national extension
program the lessons learned from successful small-scale, regional programs,
such as the Puebla Maize Development Scheme (PLAN PUEBLA), the Program for
Development of the Humid Tropics (PRODERITH), and the Plan to Improve Rainfed
Agriculture (PLANAT)(Annex 1).
2.13      Since publication of the subsector report, and in keeping with the
objectives -f PRONADRI, SARH has embarked on a program to improve not only
its extension services but also to streamline its entire sector cperations.
Significant advances have been made, including the creation of 192 RDD with
708 SC to unify extension services, improve coordination of inputs supply to
the farmer, and to delegate more responsibility to SARH's field staff. Other
administrative changes made since 1985 are outlined in Annex 3. Despite
these changes, significant problems remain. For example: (i) a major
retraining of extension staff is needed; (ii) administrative linkages to
improve coordination at the district level, especially with researchers, need
to be made operational; (iii) logistical support needs to be provided to
field staff; and (iv) mechanisms need to be developed to control the cost of
extension. The proposed project would test several strategies to tackle
these problems under field conditions.



-7-
Bank's Overall Strategy
2.14      The Bank's strategy for Mexico's agriculture sector has four main
elements. The first element reflects Mexico's current need for structural
adjustment and quick disbursing assistance and involves a program of sector
work and sector lending to address general policy issues. An agriculture
sector adjustment loan is being prepared which focuses on: (a) reducing food
subsidies and ensuring that remaining subsidies are targetted to the truly
needy; (b) phasing out consumer and farmgate price controls on many
agricultural commodities; (c) selling or closing inefficient public
enterprises; (d) moving towards more cost recovery of Government expenditures
and more economic pricing of agricultural inputs; (e) liberalizlng over time
the import and export regime; (f) rationalizing the sugar sector;
(g) restructuring and decentralizing SARH; and (h) promoting a sound
multi-year public investment program. A second element supports private
Investment in agriculture through credit operations; this has been and should
continue to be an important part of Bank assistance. A third element focuses
on improving productivity.  This would include the proposed project, as well
as rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance of irrigated areas,
and regional development programs comprising small, productive and
infrastructure investments aimed at poorer, less-developed areas. The fourth
element comprises specific projects aimed at supporting important investment
opportunities; currently under preparation are agroindustries, forestry and
dairy development projects. These also have a heavy credit element.
III. THE PROJECT
Bacground and Rationale
3.01      The project would build on the recommendations of the 1984
subsector report. SARH prepared the project with technical assistance from
the International Institute for Agricultural Cooperation (IICA) and several
Bank review missions. A Bank preparation mission visited Mexico in June
1986, and the appraisal was carried out in October 1986. Negotiations took
place in Washington from April 23 to 27, 1987. The Mexican delegation was
headed by Lic. Luis Nava.
3.02      The fundamental rationale for the project is the importance of the
agriculture sector in Mexico. Because of its large share of employment, the
poverty in many rural areas, and the historically important political role of
the sector, the Government considers the revitalization of agriculture to be
an important economic and social element in the structural recovery of
Mexico. This project is important because it would make agricultural
production more efficient. In this context, Bank involvement is justified by
the need: (a) to improve productivity and output from Mexico's already
cultivated areas as cost-effective opportunities for area expansion diminish;
(b) to utilize the Bank's cross--country experience and technical expertise to
assist SARH in improving extension and research services; (c) to alleviate
the poverty level of project beneficiaries; and (d) to streamline SARH. The
improvement of the efficiency of SARH and, in particu:ar, its extension and
research services, is of such strategic importance as to justify Bank
involvement in a program with low capital and foreign exchange costs.
Furthermore, since improved extension would improve farm-level productivity,
the project would complement the policy reforms being promoted under the
proposed sector oan. This would also greatly enhance the viability of the
Bank's agricultural project portfolio in rural development, irrigation and
credit.



-8-
Objectives
3.03      The project would test strategies to enhance the quality and cost
effectiveness of extension services in MSexico (paras. 3.32-3.34).
Flexibility and replicability would be key criteria since the aim would be to
develop a workable system to improve Mexico's national extension service.
The project's specific objectives are given belowt
(i) To develop a better understanding of farmers' needs prior to
implementilng extension programs. This would be achieved by
studying the local situation and developing priorities and
strategies with farmer groups and local service agencies. More
specifically farmers would become more involved in the design and
evaluation of extension services and research programs. This would
be achieved through the RDD technical committees and meetings at
the municipality level (para 2.09). Workshops would also be
carried out for public service agencies to promote the strategies
developed;
(ii)  To im2rovethe qualityof extension staff.  The project would
concentrate heavily on human resource development through improved
selection, training and technical backstopping of field staff by
subject matter specialists. This would involve a skills-gap
analysis of all district personnel and, when appropriate, a
modification of job descriptions to focus on productive rather than
on bureaucratic tasks. The project would also study alternative
incentive packages to stimulate professionalism and dedication
within the extension service;
(iii)  To focus extension on priority areas, farmer groups and wooen's
organizations. Tte primary goal would be to increase farm incomes
by increasing the number of farmers who adopt improved technical
packages. Overall, the intent would be to build upon successful
experiences already developed elsewhere in Mexico: PLAN PUEBLA,
PRODERITH, and PLANAT (para 2.12), as well as improved technology
already being used by better farmers in the project area. The
formation of producer and women's groups would also receive special
effort. In the context of tapping the underexploited resource of
women in rural areas, the aim would be to expand the Women's
Agroindustrial Unit (UAIM) which has been succesfully promoted
under PRODERITH. UAIM focuses on improving the nutritional status
of women and children by: (a) establishing vegetable gardens;
(b) establiuhing small-scale livestock units; and (c) generating
additional income for rural households through establishment of
bakeries and other cottage industries (Annex 1);
(iv) To stimulate greater sharing of extension costs by farmers and
State Governments, and increase competition from private technical
assistance groups already operating in certain areas. The focus of
this activity would be on farmer groups in higher-income, irrigated
areas. The project would also test the effect of limiting the time
a group of producers receives intensive extension assistance to
three to four years. Thereafter, if the group wished to continue



- 9 -
to receive intensive support it would meet the extra cost over
normal coverage levels otherwise the intensity would drop and the
focus would move to new groups (details are given in Annex 1). A
variation on this approach to providing intensive coverage for a
limited time followed by a reduction in coverage has already been
successfully tested under the PRODERITH project. By requiring
farmers to pay for public services, this would place public
services in more open competition with private services. This
would in turn provide a fairer environment for private services to
compete;
(v)  To streamline SARH's operations based on (a) the actual needs of
farmers at the district level and (b) cost effectiveness criteria
better suited to the current economic environment in Mexico. This
process would begin with a manpower development and skills-gap
analysis at the district level. The long-term goals would be a
reduction in SARH's overall staffing and an increase in the
proportion of staff in operational assignments. In addition, this
would mean replacing poor performing extension staff with better
qualified individuals;
(vi)  To improve coordination between extension, farmers, research, input
suppliers and credit agencies. The focus would be on activities at
the service centers and would involve active participation of all
the above groups in the RDD Technical and SC Municipality
Committees in planning, coordination and supply of services to the
sector; and
(vii) To focus adaptive research on validation and diffusion of
technology. This would require an increase in on-farm research
with a farming systems, rather than a single commodity, approach.
Researchers would also become more involved in the program of
demonstration plots in farmers' fields used by extension agents in
their promotional campaigns.
Project Area
3.04      The 1.8 million hectare project area involving about 400,000 farm
families would comprise 20 RDD in two of Mexico's four agroecological zones
namely, the irrigated areas in the arid northwest and the temperate, central
highlands. The remaining two agroecological zones (humid and dry tropics)
were rejected at appraisal since: (a) the Bank-financed PRODERITH II project
(Loan 2658-ME) already supports development activities in the humid tropics;
and (b) the dry tropics lacks an overall, coherent agricultural strategy and
has a poor resource base (Annex 7). The overall focus in the project area's
two zones would be the same as outlined in para. 3.03; however, certain
aspects would be emphasized depending on the particular needs of the area
concerned. For example, in higher-income areas the focus would be on:
(a) increased cost sharing with producer groups; (b) gradual reduction in
district staffing levels; (c) promoting more direct diffusion of technology
from research to farmer groups; and (d) stimulating further competition from
private extension services which are already operating in the area.



- 10 -
3.05      Although four districts were studied at preappraisal (one for each
of Mexico's agroecological regions), only two were selected as models under
the project (Cajeme in the irrigated Northwest, and Tlaxcala in the temperate
highlands). These two RDD would form the basis of the first year of the
project. An additional eight would be studied in year 1 (1987) for full
incorporation into the project in year 2 (1988), and a further ten in year 2
(1988) for incorporation in year 3 (1989). In the central highlands it is
anticipated that about four of the districts still to be studied would be
selected from the successful districts developed under PLANAT, for which
significant information already exists and district management is good. In
the irrigated northwest, where districts are more homogeneous and farmers are
more commercially-oriented, the process of completing studies is expected to
be straightforward and quick. It is also proposed to select, to the extent
possible, extension programs in those irrigated districts to be included
under the proposed Bank-financed Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, Details
of project components are discussed below.
Detailed Description
3.06      Extension (US$60-5 million, 82% of project costs).  Logistical
support would be strengthened to increase the effectiveness and coverage of
SARH's field extension staff. Specifically, the project would finance:
(a) construction of new offices at about 40 SC, mostly in remote areas, and
the renovation of some existing offices (including limited office facilities
for input and service agencies); and (b) provision of equipment and office
furnishings at the RDD and SC level, and procurement of about 640 vehicles.
The office equipment would include equipment to produce and disseminate
audio-visual and written materials. Within extension, the project would also
cover the entire extension recurrent expenditure budget (operating
expenditures and salaries) at the 20 project RDD at an estimated cost of
US$52.4 million (71% of total project costs). Bank financing would be
restricted to incremental recurrent expenditures (5.9% of total project
costs).
3.07      The extension strategy to be followed contains the fundamental
features of the Training and Visit (T&V) system including: (a) a unified
extension service with a generalist extension worker; (b) regular training of
extension personnel; (c) backstopping by subject matter specialists;
(d) regular farm visit schedules; (e) regular feedback between farmer,
extensiorn worker and researcher; and (f) systematic monitoring and evaluation
of project impact. There would be a limited increase in staff numbers,
maitly technical staff in operations (Annex 6, Table 8'. However, it is
expected that the bulk of these would come from transfers within SARH's
existing national cadre of personne>.
3.08      To tackle the problem of incentives to field extension staff, SARH
would test strategies which would include: (i) promotion based on evaluation
after training; and (ii) bonuses to extension staff for increases in farm
productivity. Details are given in Annex 1.



- 11 -
3.09      Despite changes to be made, the unit cost and coverage of extension
would be improved (paras. 3.28 and 3.32). This would be achieved by:
(a) working more with farmers' and women's groups; (b) applying successful
mass media techniques already developed under PRODERITH; and (c) a vigorous
program of demonst-ration plots (one for every two communities). Initially
about 220,000 of the 400,000 project area families would receive higher
density extension coverage. The balance of the area would receive lower
density coverage until appropriate technical packages have been developed for
their specific needs.
3.10      Institutional and Manpower Development - Training (US$8.2 million,
11% of project costs).  The institutional and manpower development component,
a key element of the project, has been carefully planned with considerable
input from the Bank. It would be implemented by SARH's Director General for
Producer Organization and Community Affairs 'DGPO) with assistance from the
Director General for Agricultural Developmert (DGA). It would bridge the
gaps in SARH's ability to carry out effective transfer of technology and
organization of producers in the pilot districts. Detailed job descriptions
have been formulated for each pos4'ion at the RDD level. These have been
used in the first two pilot districts to identify skill-gaps of individual
staff members. This detailed process would be carried out for the remaining
18 districts by the end of year 2 of the project. Specific training courses
to cover identified skill-gaps would be carried out in: (a) extension for
about 1,740 district extension staff including field workers, subject matter
specialists and administrators; (b) research for about 130 researchers; and
(c) farmer organization for about 67,600 farmers. Specifically the project
would finance costs related to training including travel, subsistence,
accommodation and training equipment and materials. The loan would finance
all training costs.
3.11      Extensionist training would be carried out through formal
pre-service courses for incremental and/or replacement staff and through
on-the-job training by subject matter specialists. Training for subject
matter specialists would include topics on farm management, farm economics to
maximize income, soil conservation, integrated pest management methods, and
the rational and effective use and safe handling of agrochemicals. Producer
training would cover technical, organizational and marketing activities. In
addition, workshops would be held for extension, research and other agencies
represented at the SCs to improve planning and promote a greater
understanding of project objectives, Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that SARH would implement the proposed institutional and
manpower development program in the twenty project districts (para 4.01(i)),
Details are given in Annex 4.
3.12      Research (US$3.2 million, 4% of project costs).  INIFAP would
implement the adaptive research component.  As recommended in the 1984
subsector report, research in the project area would focus on: (a) improving
the diffusion of research station results to the extension agent and farmer;
and (b) tailoring research to address farmer needs rather than researchers'
interests. Research results would be tested under farm conditions using an
intensive program of validation plots. Specifically project costs would
include all costs related to research work of about 60 investigation units.
Each investigation unit would comprise the salary and operating costs of a



- 12 -
researcher, a vehicle, field equipment for trials, limited office
construction and office equipment to prepare documentation. Since these are
all incremental costs they would be eligible for financing under the loan.
Feedback on the appropriateness of the technical recommendations would follow
two paths namely: (i) formal contact between researcher, extension agent and
farmer at the district level workshops and RDD technical committees (para.
3.11); and (ii) more frequently through direct contact between researcher,
farmer and extension agent at the level of individual validation plots.
Specific technical goals of research would include: (i) more work on farming
systems rather than single commodities; (ii) greater effort on livestock and
forestry in marginal and mixed farming areas;(iii) a clearer focus on
developing cost-effective technical packages to ensure sufficient incentives
for farmers to adopt the improved technology; and (iv) integrated pest
management, emphasizing cultural and biological control methods, and an
economically and environmentally sound approach to pesticide use.
3.13      A major construction and staffing program at research stations is
not necessary. The research component would also provide for: (a) frequent
research/extension staff contacts at experiment stations and at the RDD
level; (b) a research planning exercise prior zo each crop season to reflect
farmers' needs; (c) joint research/extension staff planning and use of
on-farm validation and demonstration plots; and (d) production of
audio-visual and printed materials. Details are given in Annex 2.
3.14      Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.3 million, under 1% of project
costs). In a project of this type, the role of monitoring and evaluation is
important. Monitoring of project activities would be carried out by the RDD
Programming Unit. However, monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the
strategies and technical packages to be promoted under the project would be
carried out under contract by the Graduate College at Chapingo. The Bank
loan would finance the incremental recurrent costs of the 20 RDD Programming
Units and the entire cost of the Chapingo consultant contract. Details are
given in Annexes 1 and 5, and the Technical File (Annex 8).
3.15      Technical Asbistance and Studies (US$1.6 million, 2% of project
costs'. The project would provide funds for national and international
technical assistance (consultants) to support the institutional and manpower
development component, as follows: (a) organization, institutional
development and preparation of 18 RDD plans (120 staff-months);
(b) administration and personnel policy (12 staff-months); (c) agricultural
legislation and its impact on extension (12 staff-months); (d) cost recovery
options evaluation (30 staff-months); and (e) general short-term consultant
support for issues which develop during implementation (36 staff-months). A
study would also be carried out to analyze specific extension methodologies
being tested throughout Mexico to determine which offer promise for wider
expansion under the project. Consequently, a total of about 210 staff-months
of technical services would be provided under the project for these
purposes. All consultants would be selected and retained under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Details are givei in Annex 4.



- 13 -
Project Implementation
3.16      There would be two levels of adainistrative responsibility for the
project. At the federal level (Chart 1) the Subsecretary of Agriculture,
Livestock and Forestry Development would be responsible for overall
coordination of extension and research activities and ensuring that the
experience from this first project would be applied on a nationwide basis.
The Subsecretary would delegate responsibility for technical matters to the
DGA who would ensure regular coordination with all interested and
participating agencies. The DGA would ensure the selection and continuity of
qualified, competent staff in his Department of Extension to oversee the
project. Currently this unit is technically strong but lacks decisive
management. These skills would be provided for the project. At the state
level (Chart 2), SARH's Delegate would pass responsibility for day-to-day
management to the district chief (Chart 3). The district chief would be the
most important link in project management and would ensure effective
coordination of all agencies working at the district level especially the
support staff from the DGPO. In the northwest, district chiefs would also
ensure effective linkages to the proposed Bank-financed Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project.  In the selection of project districts, the choice of
district chiefs would be an important factor in the success of the project.
3.17      The Subsecretary would constitute a technical group to review the
feasibility studies on the 1P districts to be studied in 1987 and 1988 and to
advise him on appropriate actions to be taken in these districts. These
studies would be prepared by the respective district chiefs with technical
support from the nrA team which assisted at appraisal, Since the project
aims to incorpoi.Oe as wide a sphere of experience into this review as
possible the technical group would include representatives of: the SARH
Directors General of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry; SARH's Coordinator
of Delegations; INIFAP; DGPO; Secretariat of Programming and Budget (SPP);
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP); the National Rural Credit
Bank (BANRURAL); the Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (FIRA);
the Post-Graduate College of Chapingo; and the PRODERITH, PLAN PUEBLA and
PLANAT projects. Representatives of SARHU' Director General of International
Affairs would keep the Bank informed of progress in this review. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that Government would complete the feasibility
studies on the 18 districts for Bank review and approval.  The deadline for
this approval would be November 30, 1987 for the first eight, and September
30, 1988 for the balance of ten (para 4.01 (ii)).
Costs
3.18      The total cost of the project over the four-year implementation
period (1987-1991) excluding taxes is estimated at US$73.8 million, of which
about US$16.9 million, or about 23%, represents foreign exchange. In the
phasing of project costs, it is assumed that two of the districts will become
operational in 1987, eight more in 1988, and ten more in 1989 to total 20
RDD. The base cost of US$69.6 million is estimated at October 1986 prices.
In view of the wide divergence between international and local inflation
rates, all cost and financial projections are presented in US dollars.
Physical contingencies (1.1% of base costs) were calculated at the rate of
10% for civil works and 5% for all other investment items. Price
contingencies (4.9% of base costs) have been estimated at 1% for 1987 and



- 14 -
2.6% p.a. between 1988-1990. These rates have been applied to all components
except salaries, in line with Government's goal of controlling the growth of
public sector salaries. The project would require a total of 210staff-months
of consultant services estimated at US$1.6 million. Details of project costs
are shown in Annex 6, Tables 1, 5 and 7.
Financing
3.19      The proposed Bank loan of US$20.0 million would finance 100% of
foreign exchange costs (US$16.9 million) and about 5% of local costs (US$3.1
million equivalent). The Bank loan would, therefore, finance 27% of total
project costso Details of financing are given in Annex 6, Table 2.
Special Account
3.20      To expedite project implementation, a Special Account would be
established in NAFIN. Up to US$2.6 million would be deposited by the Bank in
the Special Account, which is equivalent to about four months of peak loan
requirements. The Special Account would be replenished through normal
reimbursement of project expenditures.
Procurement
3.21      The procurement procedures and amounts for the various project
elements are shown below:
Table 3.1 - Procurement-Arrangements a/
Project
Element              ICB             LCB           Other          Total
(US$ Million)
Civil Works                -              3.2            -             3.2
(3.2)                        (3.2)
Vehicles and Equipment    -               5.2             -            5.2
(5.2)           -            (5.2)
Services                   -              -             65.4 b/       65.4
(11.6)       (11.61
Totals                -              8.4           65.4          73.8
_             (8.4)         (11.6)        (20.0)
a/   Values in parenthesis reflect amount financed by the Bank,
B/   Consultants, studies and recurrent expenditures.



- 15 -
3.22      Civil works would be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (US$3.2 million). Local competitive
bidding would be justified as limited construction of offices at SCs would be
at widely scattered sites.
3.23      Vehicles, machinery, equipment and furniture for all components,
(US$5.2 million) would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with Bank guidelines. However, foreign firms would be allowed
to participate in this LCB. This point was clarified during negotiations.
LCB is justified due to the small size of annual procurement needs (about
US$65,000 per district) in the twenty widely dispersed districts which does
not permit meaningful ICB. Consultants for the institutional and manpower
development component would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would follow
these pvicedures (para 4.01 (iii)).
Disbursements
3.24      The standard profile for similar projects in the region is eight
years, however, a period of five years for disbursements is proposed for this
project for the following reasons: (a) it aims to test strategies and move
quickly to nationwide implementation of the results; and (b) the scale and
type of investments are simple and do not require protracted procurement
periodso The proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed against: 100%
of civil works, training, technical assistance and studies costs.
Disbursements against incremental recurrent costs (incremental salaries and
Incremental operating costs of extension and research services) would be on a
declining basis, based on the year of entry of a district into the project,
as follows: year 1, 100%; year 2, 75%; year 3, 50%; year 4, 25%.
Disbursements for purchases and contracts of less than US$150,000 and against
training, and incremental salaries and operating expenditures would be made
against statements of expenditure (SOE). All documentation in support of SOE
would be retained by the executing agency for review by the Bank as required
and would be audited. The project provides for retroactive financing of
costs incurred in all loan categories prior to loan signing, but after
October 6, 1986, up to US$0.5 million equivalent.
Accounts and Audit
3.25      SARH would maintain separate accounts of expenditures made under
the project. Supporting documentation, including satisfactory evidonce for
all incremental recurrent expenditures (salaries and operating costs) would
be made available to the Bank for review in Mexico upon request. Independent
qualified auditors would carry out an audit satisfactory to the Bank on the
accounts and SOE according to conditions of the general agreement on auditing
signed between the Bank and Government in November 1986. Under this
agreement, the Secretariat of the Federal Controller is considered
independent and qualified, Certified copies of these audits would be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of each fiscal
year.



- 16 -
Monltoring and Evaluation
3.26      Monitoring.  The head of the programming Unit under the district
chief would be responsible for physical and financial monitoring of project
activities. In addition to regular, routine reporting to support decision-
making by the iistrict chief, the Programming Unit would submit formal pro-
gress reports to the district chief every three months. The DGA would
consolidate these reports every six months and submit them to the Bank by
July 31 and January 31 of each year. DGA would also submit annual progress
reports to the Bank within three months of the end of the year, and a Project
Completion Report within six months of project completion. In the annual
reports, DGA would specifically comment on the project's adherance to the
objectives and strategies outlined in para. 3.03. A detailed list of
activities to be monitored is available in the project Technical File
(Annex 8).
3.27      Evaluation,  The effects of the project would be independently
evaluated by the Graduate College at Chapingo. The focus would be to
determine the rate of adoption of new technology by farmers, and its yield
impact. Specific quantifiable performance indicators would be evaluated to
guide management decisions on replicability of results achieved compared to
existing norms of operation. The success of cost sharing mechanisms would
also be evaluated. Reports on the evaluation would be prepared twice during
project implementation: at the end of years 2 and 4. The results of the
final evaluation would be incorporated into the project completion report.
Control districts and farmers groups would be established and Chapingo would
also monitor and analyze deta on advances in research, their relation to
technical assistance offered, and adoption rates by farmers. Draft terms of
reference for the Chapingo consultancy plus sample performance indicators are
available in the Technical File (Annex 8).
Benefits, acremental Production, Marketing and Inputs
3.28      Benefits.  The project would benefit about 400,000 farm families
and a total of about 1.8 million ha. Approximately half of these families
currently have incomes below the poverty level, two-thirds would be
ejidatarios (small farmers on public land) and one-third small private
farmers. It is estimated that the percentage of farmers adopting improved
technology (Annex 1, Table 1) would increase from about 5% to about 40% in
the central highlands and from 15% to 60% in the irrigated northwest by full
development in year 13. In addition, typical farm family incomes are
expected to increase, For example, in the irrigated northwest, a smallholder
with 11 ha of annual crops is estimated to increase his net farm income from
about US$2,470 to about US$2,855 by full development. An ejidatario in the
central highlands with 4 ha of annual crops is estimated to increase his net
farm income from about US$440 to US$540 by full development.
3.29      Incremental Production.  The project would have an impact over a
wide range of crops and livestock activities. However, for the purposes of
the economic analysis, the impact at full development has been estimated for
the five principal crops as follows: annual wheat production increased by
about 562,000 tons; maize by about 202,000 tons; soybeans by about 96,000



- 17 -
tons; cotton by about 46,000 tons; and safflower by about 40,000 tons. This
would be equivalent to about US$116 million per annum in the value of
incremental production at full development, Details of estimated crop yield
increases and areas benefitting from extension support are given in Annex 7.
3.30      Marketing and Inputs.  The incremental production would mainly be
marketed in Mexico and existing marketing systems would have no difficulty
handling it. The supply of inputs such as fertilizer and chemicals is also
considered adequate to meet project area needs and credit availability would
be ensured through ongoing and proposed Bank credit operations.
Sustainability
3.31      Sustainability was a key issue in the design of this project,
particularly with regard to the availability of public funds. Mexico's
expenditures on extension are substantial and cannot be significantly
increased at a time when the country faces severe budget constraints. Hence
the project focus on increasing efficiency rather than expansion, and on cost
containment and recovery. Overall, it is estimated that total district-level
recurrent costs will rise only about 8% over existing levels, and even less
if the cost recovery and cost control strategies outlined below are
successful. This level of cost is considered sustainable. However, due to
improvements in the adoption rate of new technology by farmers, the unit
costs of providing extension are actually estimated to decline (in October
1986 prices) over the four-year project Implementation period from about
US$42 to US$12 per ha per annum in the irrigated northwest and from about
US$62 to US$14 per ha per annum in the central highlands.
3.32      Cost Control.  Two general cost control principles would be
tested. The first would be stratify producers by income level and
progressively graduate higher income producers to private extension services
or else require greater cost sharing.  This would permit public services to
focus more on low-to mid-income producers in priority areas. The second
principle would promote increased direct contact between researchers and
farmers. This contact is more likely to occur in irrigated areas and would
permit further reductions in extension staff or at least their transfer to
other priority areas where coverage is low at present. In higher income
areas, extension must be considered more as an input and not as a free
service. Consequently if farmers do not see a clear return on the investment
and are unwilling to pay for it, the need for SARH to provide the input would
be questioned.
3033      Several different approaches to cost control  would be tested,
namely: (i) greater use of contact with farmer groups; (ii) the use of mass
media to expand coverage; (iii) expansion of the use of validation and of
demonstrationr plots; and (iv) reduction of coverage ratios over time in
certain areas (para. 3.03 (iv)).
3.34      C!oLstMSharn.  The project would focus its testing of cost sharing
strategies on higher income irrigated areas where farmers are already paying
about 15% of extension costs under a general irrigation district charge.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SARH would raise the level of



18 -
cost sharing from farmers groups (patronatos) in the irrigated northwest to
cover about 50% of extension salary costs by June 30, 1992 (para. 4.01
(iv)). Other cost sharing mechanisms to be tested would include: (i) direct
charges for services such as soil sampling and animal feed ration
formulation; and (ii) requiring credit and insurance institutions to pay the
rural development district directly for the technical support provided to
subborrowers. The extension staff would not be involved in collecting the
costs of these services from farmers.
Environmental and Sociological Impact
3035      Environmental Impact.  Measures would be taken to protect the
environment. Research would be conducted to determine fertilizer and
chemical application rates and methods compatible with increasing
productivity and yields while protecting the environment from cnemical
contamination. The extension services would advise farmers on the safe and
proper use of fertilizers, chemicals and cultural practices required to
protect the user and the environment. Cultural practices would include soil
conservation measures, such as terracing, contour cultivation, windbreaks and
incorporation of crop residue into the soil, These practices would conserve
soil and moisture and reduce transport of fertilizers and chemicals to areas
where they could cause harm.
3.36      Sociological Impact* The project would have a major impact on
reducing rural poverty. It would also improve the economic status of women
in rural areas by establishing women's groups for small-scale agricultural
enterprises (Annex 1). The project is designed to focas on ejidoe and
smallholders and therefore would have a positive effect on the socioeconomic
balance in the project area. In addition, it would increase employment by
about 3.2 million man-days per year, equivalent to about 11,200 full-time
jobs, in the areas of intensified crop and livestock production, as well as
substantial part-time employment for weed control and harvesting. This would
help reduce the need for the unemployed and underemployed to migrate to other
areas seeking job opportunities.
Project Risks
3.37      The main risks associated with the project would be:
(a) the possibility of continued economic difficulties in Mexico and
consequent low levels of counterpart funding. Reflecting this, the
scope of this project has been kept modest and incremental costs
kept low. SARH has confirmed budget allocations for year 1 (1987)
which are in line with appraisal estimates;
(b) inadequate inter- and intra-institutional coordination. In
designing the proposed project, institutional constraints have been
clearly defined and would be remedied through appropriate staff
training programs and participatory workshops;
(c) insutficient incentives for farmers and farmer groups to make
technical changes and, where appropriate, to share in the costs of
extension. To minimize this risk, it is part of project design to



- 19 -
ensure that extension and research are responsive to farmers'
needs. However, there is a risk that tbe uptake of new technology
would be slower than expected because of inappropriate sector
policies beyond the scope of the project. This should be mitigated
by a proposed agricultural sector loan which is currently being
prepared (para. 2.14); and
(d) failure to provide sufficient incentives to extension pensonnel.
In this context, the proposed training programs, improved flow of
budgetary resources for routine operating expenditures, and the
bonus systems to be tested are likely to provide at least partial
relief to what is likely to continue to be a very difficult salary
environment for public sector employees in Mexico.
3.38      Despite these risks, Bank-wide experience suggests that moves
towards more efficient extension services have a high economic return since
the cost is relatively small compared to the value of incremental production
and productivity generated. In addition the Bank intends to provide close
supervision of the project to ensure that the lessons learned are
incorporated into the national extension system.
IV.  SUNMARY OF AGREMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i) SARH would implement the institutional and manpower development
program in all 20 project districts (para. 3.11);
(ii) SARH would complete the feasibility studies for the balance of
18 districts for Bank review and approval according to the schedule
outlined in para. 3.17;
(iii) SARH would follow procurement arrangements outlined in
para. 3.21-3.23; and
(iv) SARH would raise farmer cost sharing levels in the irrigated
northwest to about 50% of extension salary costs by June 30, 1992
(para. 3.34).
4.02      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$20.0 million on standard terms for Mexico.
April 30, 1987



- 20 -
Annex 1
Page 1
MEXICD
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
Extension
A. INTRODUCrION
1.        This annex complements relevant sections of the appraisal report
dealing with Mexico's extension service and the actions proposed under the
project. It discusses: (i) the recent evolution of Mexico's extension
service; (ii) some project specific actions not discussed in detail in the
main text, including: (a) incentives to extension staff; (b) producer
organizations; (c) women's groups; and (d) cost sharing; and (lii) selected
performance indicators including coverage ratios and staff levels.
B. EVOLUTION OF MEXICO'S EXTENSION SERVICE
2.        !A to Mid- 9709. Focus on Irrlgation and Area Expansion.  Most of
Mexico's growth In agricultural produetion between the 1950s and the late
1970s resulted from an expansion in cultivated area, mainly by bringing newly
irrigated lands into production. Productivity increased slowly and the
majority of farmers failed to apply many of the proven improved technologies
which could have permitted signifikant increases in yields and farm income.
This situation was especially noticeable with smaller farmers in rainfed
areas, and it became of increasing concern to policy makers in the early
1970s as the potential to irrigate new lands in a cost-effective manner began
to diminish.
3.        Mid-1970s to Early 1980s: Focus on Rainfed Agriculture and
Productivity. By the mid-1970s a fundamental change was made in agricultural
policy. To continue production growth, and to attain a more balanced
distribution of income in agriculture, it was accepted that increased
productivity would have to be emphasized, especially in rainfed areas and
with small farmers. To achieve this, extension services would have to be
strengthened and expanded. At the time, a good research apparatus was in
place, but the extension service was sma11 with about 1,000 extension agents
who mainly provided engineering support in irrigated areas. However, a rapid
build-up followed. In the 1980s, SARH had about 12,400 technical staff
working in extension, with another 9,100 agricultural technicians in othdr
agencies and parastatals in regular contact with farmers. The coverage ratio
per extensionist claimed by SARH was about 300-350 farmers or 1,200-1,500 ha
crop area harvested. At that time, the combined cost of technical support to
agriculture (including research) was estimated at 2.1% of agricultural GVP,
compared to 1980 average values for low-income developing countries of 0.9%,
middle-income countries of 1.7% and semi-industrialized countries of 1.3%



- 21 -
Annex 1
Page 2
4.        1984:  Bank Sub-Sector Report on Mexico's Extension Service.  It
was in 1984 that the Bank prepared a subsector report on Mexico's extension
services (Report No. 5255, dated November 11, 1984) to identify areas in need
of improvement. The report concluded that, with a few notable exceptions
(pars 5), the large build-up in extension staff had made little impact on
technical change and improving farmers' incomes. Several reasons were cited,
some of which were symptomatic of the inefficiencies of extension services in
many developing countries, while others were more specific to the Mexican
situation. The most important problems identified by the report were: a top
heavy bureaucracy; poor coordination with research and other services and
input suppliers in the sector; relatively poor levels of actual contact with
farmers; inadequate compensation of staff; poor training and logistical
support; low caliber of personnel produced by the educational system; and a
paternalistic approach to rural families resulting in a lack of
prioritization in the use of public funds and a top down approach to problems
at the field level. There was also a proliferation of parallel dtepartments
offering individual technical support to farmers through their own
specialized services (crop, Livestock, forestry, and commercial crops such as
fruit).
5.        Despite this gloomy picture, the subsector report noted several,
area-specific successes, including PLAN PUEBLA (Puebla Maize Development
Scheme), PRODERITH (Program for the Development of the Humid Tropics), PLANAT
(Plan to Improve Rainfed Agriculture), and good results from some individual
rainfed and irrigation districts. PLAN PUEBLA was clearly a milestone in
heralding the Government's interest in focusing technical assistance to small
farmers. One of its key aspects was the leadership provided by the Post
Graduate College at Chapingo. By '982, Chapingo was able to claim that,
after 15 years of effort, over 90% of farmers had adopted improved maize
technology, that average maize yields had risen from 1.3 to 3.3 t/ha, and
that over 8,000 farmers had been organized into effective groups. A key goal
of any extension program would be to promote this type of success on a
national scale. PRODERITH and PLANAT were successful in certain districts
with a modified form of PLAN PUEBLA.
6.        1985 - Present: Focus on Efficiency, Impact and Cost Control.  The
current SARH administration wants to generate more benefits from its
investment in extension. It is intimately aware of problems in extension
and is determined to make these services more efficient, streamlined and
cost-effective. The Government is convinced that extension can contribute
significantly to increased agricultural production and improved rural incomes
without a major increase over existing budget levels. In this context, SARH
considers that its own services must be made at least as professional as the
small number of private individuals who offer technical services to farmers
in irrigated areas of the Northwest. These private services focus mainly on
advanced technology packages in plant production and marketing of perishable
commodities. They provide support mainly to higher income farmers and groups
of farmers and generally do not directly compete with SARH for clients.
There is no specific restriction on the growth of these private services.



- 22 -
Annex 1
Page 3
C. PROJECT SPECIFIC ACTIONS
7.        Incentives to Staff.  To tackle the problem of incentives to
uxtension staff, the project would test strategies which would include:
(i) promotion for those who successfully complete training programs geared to
meet their specific skills-gaps as identified by the project's manpower
development analysis (Annex 4); (ii) bonuses for demonstrated improvements In
productivity of farmers assisted by extension staff. This would build upon a
pilot scheme begun in StAn Luis Potosi (in 1985/86), where incentives
equivalent to one to tw'o months of base salary were given as a reward for
outstanding results. This program would be evaluated by district management
and farmers groups and should be 'ade available to no more than 25% of staff
who must spend at least 80% of their time in the field; and (iii) eligibility
for further higher level training based on performance in the fiald.
8.        Organization of Producers.  The further development and
strengthening of farmers groups would be a key factor in the likely success
of the project to ensure that: (a) improved technology i8 disseminated widely
and quickly; (b) farmers play a more active role in planning and evaluating
extension and research programs; (c) farmers benefit from economies of scale
in input purchase and marketing of outputs; and (d) strategies for sharing
the costs of extension would be adopted on a wide enough scale to have an
impact on controlling Government's budget in extension.
9.        Organization of Women's Groups.  The project would also provide an
important mechanism to tap the underexploited resource of women in rural
areas which is an objective of PRONADRI. The goal would be to build-upon the
small-scale successes of the Women's Agroindustrial Unit (UAIX) which has
also been promoted in Mexico's humid tropics under the PRODERITH II project.
UAIM are legal entities with administrative, supervisory and technical
functions. They comprise a minimum of 15 members who must be over 16 years
of age. The proposed project would focus on various women's group activities
including improving the nutritional status of women and children by:
(a) establishing communal vegetable gardens; (b) developing small-scale
poultry or other small animal units; and (c) generating additional income for
rural households through establishment of bakeries and other cottage
industries.
10.       Extension staff would receive technical backstopping on producer
and women's group organization from SARH's Director General for Producer
Organization and Community Affairs (DGPO). This unit would also assist in
the field level training of extension staff and community groups.
11.       Cost Sharing.  The project would attempt to introduce the concept
of farmers' groups sharing the costs of extension services. Efforts
in other developing countries to achieve end-user funding of exteunsion have
usually met with limited suc_ess, and when successful, it has ususilly been
associated with: (i) export commodity programs, where payments to producers
have been reduced upfront to offset extension and other input costs; or
(it) irrigation projects, where water charges have included an element for
extension. The proposed project would focus cost sharing strategies on high
income irrigated areas where farmers already have accepted the principle of



- 23 -
Annex 1
Page 4
paying for extension services. Local farmers' groups contribute already
about 152 of extension costs under a general irrigation district charge. The
project would raise this to about 502 of salary costs by June 30, 1990. Some
of the cost sharing mechanisms to be tested would include: (i) direct levy by
farmers' groups (patronatos); (ii) additional charges on loans received from
banking institutions, such as currently being practiced on a limited scale by
FIRA/FICART; (iii) cash payment for private services; (iv) direct charges for
services such as soil sampling and animal feed ration formulation; and
(v) requiring institutions such as BANRURAL and ANAGSA to pay the district
directly when they require farmers to take technical support as a condition
of their subloans. These costs could be capitalized on loans to farmers. If
the project io able to expand this principle of cost sharing and increase the
actual level of costs recovered, it would be a major success. In this
context, Mexico has tho prospect of establishing an important precedent for
other developing countries to follow.
D. Selected Performance Indicators
12.       A detailed list of specific performance indicators which would be
monitored by the district and evaluated by Chapingo are available in the
Technical Pile (Annex 9). These include parameters on production, producer
organization, productivity, farmer income and cost sharing. However, within
this monitoring and evaluation exercise there are two fundamental factors
which will be closely monitored in an attempt to measure improvements in the
efficiency of extension services; namely, coverage ratios and staffing
levels.
13.       Coverage Ratios.  At present, extension staff actually reach no
more than 15% of farmers in a district and the level of adoption of improved
technical information is often less. By focusing on priority areas, the
project proposes to raise these ratios as follows:
Future with
Present      Project
Percentage of Farmers Adopting
Improved Tehnology (1):
(a) Central Highlands                     5        40-45
(b) Irrigated Northwest                  15           60
Number of Farmers Contacted per
Extensionist: 1/
(a) Central Highlands                    50          460 1/
(b) Irrigated Northwest                  40          150
Intensive Crop Area per
Extensionist (ha):
(a) Central Highlands                   225        1,860
(b) Irrigated Northwest                440         1,640
1/ With the project, the number of farmers contacted per extensionist is
expected to be greate? in the central highlands due to: (a) the simpler
cropping pattern (basicallv maize); and (b) the heavy emphasis on
working with groups due to relat'vely smaller holdings/family in this
region.



- 24 -
Annex I
Page 5
14.       Staffing Levels and Profiles.  The ratio of administrative to
technical staff would be closely monitored to ensure that total staff
reductions are not made at the expense of field-level technical personnel.
However, when appropriate, staff should be transferred out of extension work,
or relieved, if found unfit for the job. This situation is likely to develop
in districts such as Huamantla In the central highlands. Here the
professional level of staff needs to be raised; however, certain individuals
may not be capable of improvement. pragmatic decisions on removing staff
from field positions would therefore be necessary.
E. Focus of Technical Packages
15.       In order to illustrate the focus of messages which extension staff
would promote, a brief review of sample technical packages are given below.
These observations have been made for wheat and soybeans in the irrigated
northwest, and for maize in the temperate highlands. Since improved
technology is, to a large extent, already applied in the irrigated northwest,
the focus of the packages would be to: (a) reduce production costs; and
(b) fine-tune cropping patterns to better suit soil potential. In the
temperate highlands, the fundamental constraint to production is the length
of the crop growing season and the need for efficient and timely land
preparation.
16.       For wheat in the irrigated northwest, technical packages would
focus on:
(i)   reducing the seed rate from 170 kg/ha to 150 kg/ha;
(ii)   reducing the compound fertilizer application rate from 400 kg/ha to
350 kg/ha;
(iii)   reducing water usage from 8,000 m3/ha to 7,400 m3/ha; and
(iv)   focusing on timely and adequate herbicide usage.
17.       For soybeans in the irrigated Northwest, technical packages would
focus on:
(i)   using newly-selected varieties to better fit in the wheat-soybean
rotation;
(ii)   maintaining a seed rate of 100 kg/ha to compensate for low
germination levels of seed; and
(iii)   cultivating soybeans on lighter soils to permit sorghum cultivation
on the heavier low-lying areas.
18.       For maize in the termperate highlands, technical packages would
focus on:
(i)   promoting more land preparation in the fall rather than in the
spring;
(ii)   promoting sowing in early spring together with an application of 20
kg TSP/ha in the seedbed;
(iii)   introducing longer growing season varieties; and
(iv)   timely weed control.



- 25 -
Annex 2
Page 1
MEXIOD
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION MROJECT (PROCATI)
Research
Current Status of Research in Mexico
le        Iz August 1985 the three research institutes for crop production
(INIA), livestock production (INIP) and forestry (INIF) were amlgamated into
the National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research
(INIFAP). Operational coordination is, however, not yet complete at the
field level. INIFAP ts a decentralized agency in SAil's Subsecretariat of
Forestry, Crop, and Livestock. INIFAP is responsible for planning,
programming and defining operational norms; directing and implementing
scientific research; and disseminating research results throughout the
country. Other specific responsibilities include training of technical and
scientific personnel and the validation (field-testing) of technology.
Research activities in crops, livestock and forestry have not been
coordinated or Integrated at the field level. Research is organized into 32
programs-each with a national coordinator--and Implemented through 20
research centers (12 crop and 3 specialized centers) and 85 experiment
stations. Despite the 1985 reorganization, INIFAP may be further changed in
the near future as part of SARH's ongoing decentralization. SARH is
evaluating the possibility of linikng research to the state-level
agricultural university system.
2.        Crops received the greatest research effort.  Work has mainly
focussed on production in irrigated areas and areas receiving favorable
rainfall (about 401 of harvested area, 671 of agricultural production, and
331 of farmers/producers) in Mexico. Existing recomendations are
appropriate-but not necessarily the most economic-for most producers in
these areas. However, it is unlikely that these recommendations are
appropriate for most producers In those areas where rainfall is a major
limiting factor, and where a subsistence or traditional form of agriculture
is practiced (601 of harvested area, 33X of agricultural production, and 671
of farmers/producers). An analysis of the present situation indicates that
the scope of basic research work is satisfactory and should be maintained at
its present level. However, increased emphasis is needed on establishing
extension packages based on proved results, and on the transfer and diffusion
of these packages to meet farmers specific needs. In contrast to crop
research, livestock and forestry research is carried out in relatively small
scale. For a detailed discussion of agricultural research in Mexico the
reader is referred to the subsector report and the technical file (Annex 9).
Proposed Action Under the ProJect
3.        Under the project, INIPAP would concentrate on field-testing
(validating) research station results at the farm level mnder the supervision
of researchers. The project's intensive validation plot program would focus
on irrigated and favorable rainfall areas, where nost farmers are
market-oriented. However, in less favorable rainfed areas, where most



- 26 -
Annex 2
Page 2
farmers use traditional methods and in general are not in a position to
experiment and cannot afford risk taking, the validation process should start
with on-farm research with a farming systems perspective (OFR/FSP).
4.        OFR/FSP entails the cooperation of farmers, researchers,
extensionists, and representatives of relevant agricultural service agencies
(credit, inputs, marketing, etc.) in carrying out an effective diagnosis of
farmers' circumstances, defining development priorities, planning and
implementing experiments on farmers' fields, and analyzing, interpreting and
synthesizing rersults in order to arrive at appropriate recommendations.
Since farmers are intimately involved from the beginning, many of them will
adopt the improved practices immediately. OFR/FSP is thus the vehicle for
establishing the linkage between research and extension. OFR/FSP is the
common denominator in achieving three closely related goals: (a) generating
appropriate agricultural technologies, (b) coordinating and integrating
agricultural, livestock and forestry research, and (c) establishing close
linkages between research, extension and farmers in the validation and
transfer of technology.
Specific Research Focus in Northwest and Central Highlands
5.        Tables 1 and 2 give examples of some key constraints of the main
crops in the project areas' two agro-ecological zones: the irrigated
northwest and the temperate central highlands. In addition the recommended
focus of research programs is discussed and the likely impact is given on
crop yields in validation plots compared to existing average yields in the
project districts. These estimates were developed by the mission in
conjunction with INIFAP, district extension personnel and farmers.



IfXtGD
AMRIOLURAL £E26IG4 RUMW - QKOTI)
REA
Main constraints to prodmtiison rauirgta vaUdation rsearch and e  e yield inerme   in ft_¢ la
Yield (TI)
t"in 0:wtratnts to                    VIy fobiats for Valtdatlon                    RbIl t tion of
fttzction b%fB                         Wsearch and lteusisn                  Presmt eammnl          .
fNaed   tlhttily  aSd prq2to  in teh         - a) Plowig In the Wawrber/Twember perttl;       a) OptLAl sott condit ins
hize:    spriuw                              - b) 1maal to wce lard prepmtion  nrsilt          3.)           4J)
timely avattable as part of cnrdt padrw  to    o) Ahrre codtbons
prior crop                                      2.5           3.0
Frost       I tn lo.W-season variety   -   eeliqtm at attq of frsot toterart lnW-
swoon varieties
Inadeuat fertitizr rqeim           - AcertainLi ewomic optimal fert I lizAr dsge,
ttme ax pLasemet
Deficie.t st  ontrol               - Introducalg validated pre-  Q4gence taw of
herbicides
Barley:   Uttmely la1d preparation in spriig   -     - SB rtainfed ale  rembti on -            2.1           2.7
Use of lw-yLelding varieties       - a) Breeditg aid testig lonrsemon variety;
- b) tzttducirg the tue of now sed each year for
variety pwrty ras
rndopat fertilizer regime          - lnro&uttig patial fmefate applicattton at
platitta tim.
Deficitet tarm  sorol              - Intritwtv  valitdatei pre  etete une of
herbtclm
Hrwe      Relatively ne crop mainly          - AsertalJW tota  p        o f re_mnttao.         0.85          1.25
liws:    aittivatet wtthiut titts due to       focusdg on:
lack of tMovai tecolqty              a) post ad disea  tolet  vartettes; and
b) agrdemic tomedation re lad
preparatkm, sed rate, firtilier sdimtAle, ad
mamContral
tAtt:    ttiely Ltd preparation in sp'rtg   -        - See ratafat ti  reca tatlon -           2.0           2.5
Ue of lovWdig wriaettes            - btraduciB valida teS r     dati  variettes
Iauiate  fertilizer rqfm           - btratwiqj parttial nate qipticatim at
plaitibg tIme
Def iclet woalotrol                - a) liroduciq5 pre-aun  uw of hetidcides;
- b) Basural to _W. cradit timely avatlable



MRJCJL3IMAR&LEM6IfM rWr - (FWMT¶)
REWA
jijn awraints to ff       en L drlig valtidatton eseardh. and extt  yield ineres  in Cja
Yield (Who)
ian Cnwtralets to                     ley Points for validation                    Patl Aptin of
a            Pmaetiu  *                            bsmrrh and.&tnson                      fteat FDald   P pties
heat:   Fatwe ip& use (sed rate aid    - AdvitRIq  farmer an  wret iqat use.                  4.7          5.2
liquld anta pplicatlon) r4mltiow
in hi1  pwd1can oots.
late plawtlq                       - Advisvti  faezm an conect plat tig 4dts
eficiat Newt Control               - AdvtisLi  farmees an correa tarbicide qppitlasm
- p d     ad irription practtke;
nieEt  ster  _Inat                 - a) Mbvisir faets on correa led level tliw
FXNota| ad trtton prstim;
- b) anzatnaf cotea   cro wtier reaquxts
for optbat miter t_e
spy Bam  Ue dof w7d1w I      etiia          - Iatrudsc ewl tly  4laud Igh-yteldiq vatettls   2.1           2.4
for 1n pzutii  rate
assiie sea dm  to           ate    - lqrw-b  otatton ra tirniD  isqwatd sea
for kw  _ukistim Vate                  t     adl s wI
tate plantg                        - Aseetainul apttia  plattag tim  tn tow tduat-
Use of oserly tey soils            - a) Amta qlati the effect of luey low-lyitu
soils an yields;
-b) ascortaint,g tie effeet ot tp      etl dratue
of thm sotts an yilads;
- c) advsatsw an altenatiwe tae of tivue mils
tHize:   the of teyieldtqg varletta         - %elidatui no  prmstrw high yieldltt  wuletta     3.9         4.4
ttimly Ptl itg                     -  vl.itg farnts an orrec plattig date
efictat crop lygiene               - Mvtsisg f    o an  pr pst oevt  wnrin.
ad an jumwgaaKo   uss of  Kbicaim
lrract fetttizer  utbw             - Valtdei4sg   sMIC aqti_t  ferttilizer dav,
tim. ad plinut
(b:ten:  the of lo.g-aeaun vatietta         -  adltq ad tati  of shwt-somon vwtette          2.6          2.9
wrreit tittiiasv rqlse             - AmatalrAg ma   n1tt a     tat s
lb_qate pet control                - Iatrixil,g ad aivisli fame an iwvwmAd gst
a2ntol     m  bsed an _ mtisewly wwrlg
spatem.
Hiloi Prodction                    -Ats  - Aertalial ad valtg an moralL  eate
-til topt tade            Pgy ^
8sf fna:Dlsemm                              - a) Smsth*g Alternar  ad nst reelatai             t.6         2.0
varletim
- b) veidotig atthble diAas tolbat t vnretei
late platitE                       - Aosetalat  a asSaldvieit  frtos an  crt ec
plait t  dome
Deficis irrigation water *_        - Aseetatnhs aid asivg farers an:
a) crp water n    it
b) tim  _ra or irri4gtioa Wpptittos  ad their
tl1dt1   dRINg tim cmop c7cle



- 29 -
Annex 3
Page I
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
Administrative Changes in SAR!
1.        Since the 1984 Bank subsector report on Mexico's extension services
was published, SARH has made significant changes to its administrative
structure In order to streamline its operations and improve its efficiency.
The goal is to make a greater impact at the farm level. Some of the key
changes are outlined below:
(a)  an internal reorganization in 1985 streamlined the number of
administrative units at the federal level inter alia: 15 General
Directors were eliminated, one subsecretariat was created from the
three previous units for Agriculture, Livestock, and Forestry; a
unified research service was created from the three previous
services in Crops, Livestock and Forestry; and three regional
commissions were eliminated;
(b)  about 17,000 staff were removed from SARH's payroll as a result of
the reorganization, leaving about 140,000. A gradual cut-back is
still underway and levels are expected to drop to about 120,000 by
the beginning of 1988;
(c)  a decentralization program was begun which aims to delegate more
responsibility to the state and district level;
(d)  the previously separate extension services in irrigation and
rainfed districts have been unified into 192 new Rural Development
Districts (RDD);
(e)  708 Service Centers (SC) have been created within the RDDs to act
as focal points for coordinated servicea (extension, research,
credit and inputs); and
(f)  extension and research are now multidisciplinary in their approach
and extension sta"f operate a system of regular visits with
technical support from district level subject matter specialists.
The approach has many features of the training and visit system.
2.        Despite the commendable focus of these ongoing administrative
changes, SARH continues to be constrained by a serious lack of budgetary
resources and the low levels of compensation for public sector employees.



- 30 -
Annex 4
Page 1
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PMOJECT (PROCATI)
Institutional and Manpower DevelopMent (IDC)
Introduction
1.        A main objective of the project is to define a new system to better
coordinate farmer organizations, extension services, credit, insurance and
marketing systems. This would be done through the design of adequate norms
and procedures under a typical institutional development project component
designed to enhance the institutional capaclty of a network of agencies In
charge of providing services to farmers. In addition, as the Government has
already decided to decentralize the decision-making process down to the
district level, the project also aims to create management and technical
capacity at the district level.
2.        Within this broader perspective, IDC is more specifically aimed at
providing inputs to increase available skills within lmplementing agencies
and to help create an institutional environment more conducive to the
achievement of agriculture development objectives in Mexico while creating an
increased capacity at the local level. Although the preparation work for the
design of this component sought to provide sufficient information to
determine what inputs would be available to help achieve expected outputs, It
has also led to the design of a management tool that will be helpful for
project implementation.
Preparation of IDC
3.        Institutional Capacity Analysls,  The project objective is in fact
a policy objective. It aims to Involve farmers more in the decision-making
process when defining agriculture development policies and targets. This
means that farmers would be stimulated to organize themselves better and to
facilitate their access to more efficient services. All this requires a high
level of lnstLtutional capacity for the subsector. Therefore, an
Institutional capacity analysis has been carried out to identify capacity
gaps against project activities and tasks.
4.        For the purposes of this analysis, the project has three specific
objectives: (i) to design a more efficient technological package; (II) to
Improve the capacity to convey the new technology to the farmers; and
(ili) to help farmers organize themselves more efficiently to get the best
out of available services. These specific objectives were disaggregated into
activities and tasks that describe who should do what to ensure adequate use
of resources to achieve project objectives. However, if tasks describe how
to use available resources to achieve objectives, they do not guarantee that
this ls going to be feasible. This is why It is necessary to enquire to what
extent every task Is feasible from the six following capacity elements:
(i) the legal and para-legal system; (11) Inter-institutional relationships;
(iil) organization and distribution of functions; (iv) physical and financial
capacity; (v) personnel policy and reward system; and (vi) skills at all
levels of staff and target population.



- 31 -
Annex 4
Page 2
Institutional Capacity Gaps (ICGs)
5.        Major ICGs are skill-related at all levels.  This is not surprising
because activities and tasks represent important innovations which involved
participants need to learn about. Skill gaps are related to new extension
techniques, validation procedures, communications techniques and process
management. All levels are affected and training activities through courses
or technical assistance have been designed accordingly., However, even if all
missing skills were made available, this would not solve the problem because
the institutional environment In which these skills would be activated is
generally a hostile one when matched with project requirements. This
Includes more specifically: (i) a lack of information on existing extension
techniques; (ii) inadequate organizational schemes when decentralizing the
decision-making process; (iii) absence of evaluation methods for the
extension subsector; (iv) inadequate legislation in the agriculture sector In
general; (v) an inconsistent personnel policy; and (vi) a lack of information
on how a cost sharing system could work in this particular subsector. All
this would be addressed through technical assistance.
Institutional Capacity Analysis System (ICAS) as a anagement Tool
6.        The assessment of the available institutional capacity of the
subsector to achieve development objectives as defined under the project, las
been carried out starting with project specific objectives. These have then
been disaggregated into major activities which have been defined based on
available resources and each activity has been divided into detailed tasks.
7.        Subsequently, task codes have been entered into an organization
chart (Tables I and 2) which shows who is going to do what and identifying
what are the tasks of an interinstitutional nature. The general coordination
of the project can visualize how tasks are distributed in the
inter-institutional organization chart. If completion dates and expected
outputs for each task are added, the tools becomes useful for monitoring and
evaluation. In addition, roles for each involved agency and their subunits
have also been identified and shown in the same chart. This facilitates the
understanding of each individual role and therefore, clarifies in the
distribution of responsibilities.
8.        By combining this chart, the consolidated list of ICGs and
solutions offered to bridge identified capacity gaps, managers at all levels
can periodically check the relevance of measures taken and decide whether to
go ahead with them or reorient them as required. This is particularly true
for training activities which should be evaluated against the capacity of
staff or farmers to properly execute their prescribed tasks.
Institutional Development Function
9.        The IDC Working Paper (in the Technical File, Annex 9) offers a
work program defined in tasks to start implementation of each component.
However, to provide support to staff in charge of implementing IDC,
specialist services are included to set up the institutional development
function in the three agencies in charge of the project wlthin SARH. The
specialist will carry out a more refined institutional capacity analysis so
as to detect more detailed ICGs and create a permanent capacity to observe
the institutional environment in which subsectoral development objectives are
achieved.



- 32 -
<~~~' ill!           l           Tablei l
.~ ~ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    I   _ __ _ __ _ __ _
1i'§W>31~~~~1i!jI
X,~  m       |n !g'1W        ' ,i11110  il1. t
651  T3S                      ,              I §§~~~~I  .



31IIJAV AdMS ISH                                                                                  ,
.M         .     ::14K ", "
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wl  b- t  e   .elI  ele
t__s"S."f os~~~~~~~~~~~~Nu   .lkW   -                                                                  eU.
~~' ~~*~~ W M     w  u..a..we..                                              t~~~~~~~~.34.umem  to  W
ma, mlr. W52.r. 
W S4Z t.  II 
Iir.90.1   M,.
wpm tt                         Wl.::                         t,
..M    wt:.                            cmh.C                  wtOt*
Amb, ~   ~          ~         ~         ~          m
linft    el                          I        I                   .4gm WI.,'
r4               J0111.                             I _                t4 m.b _     II I m
."       M"D OVW  M   to 4       Ka tO-
sinw.    Q       wbpe meg.        1e. ".
ow. *.sZt    Wtc                u.."t .                          .me. t
_.tK.4K _=e                                             - _u 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.or&  tWe  m                                            :        .,P*,,W,,,  ;*'.. ,(' , : W.t* .....  L 
ISPA '9bf;; Oi.4.    -0.4. 9t              e             KW   WI
..Wlt.  , ta N,      1.    leNt  Ntn; go leL
F4_g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I6P1_ WIg. .15 4...?.                                                             ......................  to -:- JiOfOpt
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-t .     _ . 
.0-W  twoo  V.VA  % CW.  *95t..  8.1.  51.1..M.,.Wm^4. W.
J.u*s' .com 4.?.. p          .  ""sI "soGh       .ce*r                                  e   att        &.'t Om-51 g444                                                    ma   ..   N=    .4 "wt
jau     sm MOD          rm-, liw.. 44v.2*       4  ..A.'          A...   (4*..l .40   Im',  Mtj  M.4.  o4...                            .egs.5   a-..                      4g.  .19.11.a .Ueg  e.5  54.1.
comew .:W4:             4 ...1.541,eh   .4'                       1.. 41$.*414 am       .. U -m4*  .WI0. 9154..                       .5411  .51W.                        A U  I u.    ..Nu9  4Ks4  890
.115251 .`4m K'  ...  '* t   It          .*;4. .e1h                           4  .9.4..                         "M   M.                           $*M   ob.  .                Om..
13W  ~9A40  .46114 dleSle, .Nu0.."K 1."                14.s~54.K   5.194.1    ee.e. N..u  .Ngtm  I.gm                                                          4w mt.uu              e..e.
suptmO 13.  sowe                                                  fw%el*''55 WI    " g'  to.%e ..Wm  a .mg..N.  -.C. 0Y.0       ..m     ean      '                       .4b*19.u    ee.m..
K4 31   5.         Nul. .emu...te.12  1               e bA .u.    u.s. .guu   m.-I   9.me.' mu... em..-                   .A9.13.eo.                         .g.    111    ,U.nWs0
.Ow   eM..t  mt         .e4~l5'.411 .4aft       '  ''       em    9 .g.a Nuot. .1em. am.56.14W   uheW.e. e..                      W.l4  em... el. .09IM es  Nu    4.151
OMe      .  15,..44.   'p u                Wlh*'           e..in14 .o at .elec.ggl t:e.gle. e*..                                  IN   4eeee..."I'me.m   .Nb.uee.11019.1 ee.
Oauk                                       .,%   DAo  MM          4w, 4"9 1       -- -k"               AWP                                             i
mu. ~~~    u..~~  ~   .M.:4 .M"e  .50 I~4~    4..*O   .114  44 Wa tow     lP.  ..le;.t. .40-.* W1....                           145*5u5    e.                     WS  .W.t  UI  -Nlb.e,I.
.464  e-et   e.- ._eL|
I  :       -C :        0"        :W
iW                  If                          I 
.  5 .,4, .W   msw*. Mo,& .,.,.
cow  C.04:  'W4.4    *Ws. .14-5. 
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa °tt. Zn Mm.
.14511      .    .1?
P.54K  t.191s     mm   mu.          ~        W.                                                  tw      no
.4145. 4K.          (WA  5419..         5K.           4Kt
'13511.111414                    .l4gl w19 ,W
.01'ex    Z"   W.                                                  Amw .eOO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fu                                                                                                                   o" Ao
tj X8UU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.QX                         "o
;31u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.O    o     W



- 34 -
Annex 5
Page 1
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        The monitoring and evaluation arrangements under the project would
aim at providing accurate and timely information for project management,
planning and supervision, and providing a basis on which to judge the
replicability of the strategies to be tested. They would also streamline but
not add to SARH's existing monitoring and evaluation processes.
Monitoring
2.        Two different types of key indicators will be used to measure
project impact: (a) activity indicators in extension, research, training and
infrastructure as well as availability of human and financial resources; and
(b) impact indicators to ensure that the individual project activities are
meeting their objectives. The results to be monitored include physical and
financial results of validation and demonstration plots, knowledge and
adoption of new technology by producers, productivity increases, and exposure
to technical assistance.
3.        Extension agents would be mainly responsible for analyzing the
physical and financial results of the demonstration plots and for submitting
data on technical assistance, producer associations, and progress on cost
sharing schemes, once a month. The data would be aggregated by the
"promotores" and sent to the Service Centers which would, in turn, analyze
the data received and send it to the programming director at the district
level who would also receive data on all other indicators form other district
offices. Every quarter the district programming director would send a
progress report to the district chief and to the DGA in Mexico City for
discussion and analysis. The same report would be sent to the Bank twice a
year. Monitoring of key indicators would be carried out by SARH's
programming unit in each district.
4.        Monitoring of results would be carried out by the Post-Graduate
College of Chapingo (Colegio de Postgraduados de Chapingo). The proposed
methodology would be to determine project results using random selection of
extension agents to monitor their area of operation. In each area, only one
crop would be surveyed (given the number of extensionists probably most
crops, if not all, would be surveyed). Selected producers would include
those who receive and those do not receive extension assistance.
Evaluation
5.        The evaluation of the proposed project would include: (a) an
Initial study to determine the status of the existing variables (dependent,
independent and intervening); (b) a mid-term evaluation of the project after
two years of implementation to identify changes and determine project impact



- 35 -
Annex 5
Page 2
and (c) a final evaluation at project completion with the same objectives as
those of the mid-term evaluation* Boch evaluations would compare the
situation at the beginning of the project as far as project area and
institutions are concerned with those at the time of the evaluation to
measure the project impact.
6.        The Post-Graduate of Chapingo would carry out the project
evaluation under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (Technical File,
Annex 9). A detailed listing of performance indicators are given in the
consultants technical file on Monitoring and Evaluation and was provided to
Government during negotiations.



~~~~~~~~~-  amSwmu
ftaimpkas bcMw   _ twtyft Sud                             bmlimU- -    , a ; initadw ad    - " - petat aof 11mlbm a o 6w 20 pilo dlttcto;
_8xatmkft of                        _odIatima swa  de tfum.;                                     Il) mitorla  mg t by cauir    I  o a;-am ad
eO=61                                                     twoulty abim c a' mda-mt            astat ht a:to amtattma   of b_tlty atof
dlat    W. f  eir t tuminluw pilot diatrtt
-  awaklw ptwd-t And *              -  Ua1dag at staff ib    k,         -  a _ty  d_loput plm w _ ress GE at Scdw
t-  1w_ 2d&Rld mivie                AvelaPM* WA P1Am   -A 9mm.
(b)  S_ agto          -  Summi -   mamda ad                -       a__ imidu    in mli1m  ad  - arnlumt of  d-etfectwe to        *inl gs_ &Ir
fa m&c            hint- as  finu pwa oymm.            au-ta. ad t,A  p        eemomdi     maja cm"
_lthe ab      d tt  
-  iaouvbg A    ad mstuas In  -                Pd    I p IIII aAt %di FlAM  -      _ bwudoznottiN pat l
w~  ~m.                             ad   |--Wlmat   ad * 1mt ad         to mlidsltima mmxr  ad 1A-r~fi _u    hS
-  dlmat eoumit sog  am~mm,m           67.6  faomma  empc tsdw.lqgiem
euwaiw   ad _-m,.
(a)*    ~     ~irn   -  i~.q            ma cmi~.           -  m  _amid.s; otratma    -  cm I   _to plot fr emr t am di ctfm  glaa
am EiWSIm                                                 plai.                            -  ad  -sets, gdet ad  dl_damsd   gap
ad an ftmm* mAd                                                            ~mg                          ;                rr  ;   f  .       t
- fnc         raw   to Al h4 od SW 15 to Glt to
_ foatq |tuem  a            9d 8agmps.    -  W. iq" district a_wit7 to pw  -       I  ORnIMMa Oait ataffe ad      d._ t r al l
In PC*,m i*     ad *_       for 41,MA  fams is
OMIISO_ Sme ad 41 ad               hr f t
o 2_i L   SraaLtagaap    -  foam mofAlm otata in *Iod         -  L     ,e_ m             d2f(d ad dlta
m  an    a qLfle pried.                               uctiar ma td to 3-4 ybw.
(4)    b t                UwSe* _i   miecttma, tmietg      -  dltlU     mly  hor fwmdatbW    -        1*-m,hr &vt *m-d-o trinims of qLtal1t ad
Xhity cc inte.        ad *Sdadm l                          fkotopSlgt.  qacif S traina    or  ; prlw1dt  eM_nwrAts.
atfLL.                                                 -  tadaldl Id-otaaWIq tar
-  a_athg  gaatm.uLts_ ad           -   owUIz3 tLmtLi Lr pActitwIty   -  gmota  ad bSse Iatfon evwaixtim,   rly ,wrfom&
2im,.                    1mnn; ad pwrlditsatL titl                       aff iqaoad; utifm* pfdd  tch adlclre _ I.
-alowanmumm for Cinytb as                  ' notal _rWa1 a a1u-; evic omias e1d     a
tt-e.                              ta epostLma and Atpu_e fLdiz of 4aib       .
(.)      1q _nm           ath-let  aetiw ptrtlpml ot       -  bi-amll mstp St  vfts.e aM           epdied ciqp bA.ata   * by mitt 2Ins.Ltun adid
a_tsom b_ rP          dn g MI tlaui. couigaau             le-' otior to gMe i le: ad          ithit atlitoca ptt*w tisely mitablity of
fame,  _nda,          ad 0iy  of 1m;ia                   laefsg F luti, man gatut qKvio       Suas  67,GW ftwi   trm*Au in a1 m   oit c
011   ad                                                 oitldlhity.                          p       ; ad q       d lW  f6f f-In.
(f) 1m    _m         -  goaainima tnISWed. Mlgt-jwm      -  toein  am db.t _a-td   aid    -  Srmd c--idfn Of 1atma SaArla few   to M ;
dq hr    _        cii.                 falimi. Lutst to amlmm  amime                       tell am        fot tor owt sd .
do bytmmos                                                     Aa.i
ad Odo -w*                                                tt u w             tim  sa by       cratit ad crop sawrn busttatla py tw cxtmdLsta
am.                                                       sKtOAIaI.  -1d* for <tor            im.im.
bmtWtatios.
(g) kamihdq mi's  . bgm  _   a1 -figi dbtria; SW  brue  att     m pt   - d brut  plo WA a                    for 2etqp gamit   e ts an a
amiioAliliy.          SOamSIcuff.pIUpwtSasLa               ad  agia In att  distrLdts.        atas  male.
ftt~ ad atsigad d  f ta; at
"Od8i  pow mfogk  eAff.



- 37 -
Annex 6
Table 1
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
Project Cost Summary
Percentage of
Iocal      Foreign       Total     Baseline Cost
- --  (US$ Milion)   -  _             TZZ 
Estimated Costs
Technical Services                    28.1          7.2         35.3          50.7
Producer organization                  1.4          0.6          2.0           2.9
Training                               4.3          4.2          6.5          12.2
Applied Research                       2.1          0.9          3.0           4.3
Monitoring and Evaluation              0.3          -            0.3           0.4
Other District Activities 1/          18.5          2.0         20.5          29.5
Base Costs                         54.7         14.9         69.6         100.0
Physical Contingencies                 0.4          0.4          0.8           1.1
Price Contingencies                    1.8          1.6          3.4           4.9
Total Project Costs                56.9         16.9         73.8         106.0
.m                                       m
1/  Includes administration, plarning, social promotion, and operation; programs in
rural infrastructure and irrigation O&M not included. All values rounded.
March 12, 1987



- 38 -
Annex 6
Table 2
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
(US$ Million)
World Bank           Government           Total
Amount      %         Amount      %       Amount
Ie  Investment Costs
A. Training                 6.4       100.0         -        -        6.4        8.7
B. Civil Works              3.2       100.0         -        -        3.2        4.3
C. Vehicles                 3.3       100.0         -        -        3.3 1/    4.5
D. Equipment                1.9       100.0         -        -         1.9 T/    2.6
E. Technical Assistance    1.6        100.0         -        -         1.6       2.1
F. Studies                  0.2       100.0         -        -        0.2        0.3
Total Investment Costs    16.6        100.0         0.0      0.0     16.6       22.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Normal Salaries          -           -          34.6    100.0     34.6       46.9
B. Incremental Salaries    2.2         78.6         0.6     21.4      2.8        3.8
C. Normal Operating
Costs                  -            -         18.2    100.0      18.2      24.7
D. Incremental Operating
costs                   1.2        75.0        0.4      25.0      1.6        2.1
Total Recurrent Costs       3.4         5.9       53.8      94.1     57.2       77.5
Total Disbursement         20.0        27.1       53.8      72.9     73.8      100.0
/  kxcluding taxes, duties, and local commissions of about US$1.3 million
(approximately 25Z).
March 24, 1987



- 39 -
Annex 6
Table 3
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
proposed Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount                     2
Category                                 US$ Million            Bank Financing
I. Extension
(a) Civil Works                          2.6       100%
(b) Vehicles and Equipment               4.1       100% foreign, 80%
local. 1/
(c) Incremental Recuirent Costs          1.5       incremental expenditures
for each eligible district
for each year of project
implementation by such
district, as follows:
100% - year 1
75% - year 2
50% - year 3
25% - year 4
II. Research
(P.) Civil Works                         0.2       100%
(b) Vehicles and Equipment               0.6       100% foreign, 80%
local. 1/
(c) Incremental Recurrent Costs          1.6       incremental expenditures
for each eligible district
for each year of project
implementation by such
district, as follows:
100% - year 1
75% - year 2
50% - year 3
20% - year 4
III.  Training and Technical Assistance        7.4       100%
IV.  Unallocated                              2.0
Total                                 20.0
1/ Note: Taxes and other charges are estimated at 25% of ex-factory cost.
March 12, 1987



- 40 -
Annex 6
Table 4
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Disbursement       Cumul^ ve         Balance
Bank Year       Semester               During            Amount            of
Fiscal        Ending                 Semester          Disbursed         Loan
1988         Dec. 31, 1987               0.4               0.4            19.6
June 30, 1988              0.4               0.8            19.2
1989         Dec. 31, 1988               1.9               2.7            17.3
June 30, 1989              1.9               4.6            15.4
1990         Dec. 31, 1989               3.8               8.4            11.6
June 30, 1990              3.8              12.2             7.8
1991         Dec. 31, 1990               3.4              15.6             4.4
June 30, 1991              3.4              19.0             1.0
1992         Dec. 31, 1991               1.0              20.0             0.0
March 16, 1987



- 41 -
Annex 6
Table 5
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
1987       1988       1989      1990      Total
I.  Investment Costs
A. Training                          0.3         1.3       2.6        2.2      6.4
B. Civil Works                       -          0.2        1.0        2.0      3.2
C. Vehicles                          0.1        0.6        1.3        1.3      3.3
D. Equipment and Machinery           0.1        0.6        1.0        0.2      1.9
E* Technical Assistance              0.2         0.6       0.4        0.4       1.6
F. Studies                           0d1        0.1        -          -        0.2
Total Investment Costs               0*8         3.4       6.3        6.1     16.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Normal Salaries                   1.3         6.7      13.3       13.3     34.6
B. Incremental Salaries              0.1        0.5        1.1        1.1      2.8
C. Normal Operating Costs            0.7        3.4        7.0        7.1     18.2
D. Incremental Operating Costs       0.1        0.3        0.6        0.6      1.6
Total Recurrent Costs                2.2        10.9      22.0       22.1     57.2
Total Project Costs                3.0       14.3       28.3       28.2     73.8
March 12, 1987



ANNME 6
- 42                                          Table 6
LEXICO
ABRICULTURAL EXTENS1SN PROJECT
Annual Prole:t Cost By Component
(lS$ ^000)
1967         me8       19B9        1990        Total
1. Norail District Expenditures
A. Technical Services                                         1,168        5,842   11,684       11,684       30,379
B. Producer Organization                                          7           37        75           75         194
C. Other District Actiities lS                                  789        3,944    7,867        7,887       20,507
Sub-Total                                     1,965       9,823   19,646        19,646       S1,081
I. Increuental District Expenditures
A. Technical Services                                            76          521    1,713        2,556        4,867
B. Producer Organization                                         7?          389      728          598        1,794
C. Training                                                    S58         2,121    3,330        2,446        8,477
D. Nonitoring and Evaluation                                     26           60       121         121          328
Sub-Total                                       761        Q,092    5,892        5,721       15,466
Ill. increeental Applied Research                               150          702    1,230          924        3,007
Base Coats                                    2,876       13,617   26,768       26,292       69,554
Physical Contingencies                                        38          156      316          329          840
Price Contingencies                                           79         476    1,273         1,576        3,403
Totil Project Costs                                2,993       14,250   28,357       28,1?6       73,797
:::::   :::2:    2::5:       :::::        SSStt
Foreign Exchange                                   786        3,443    6,529        6,156       16,915
/1 Includes adoinistration, planning, social promotion, aAd operations;
programs in rural infrastructure and irrigation OtH Pot included.
Harch 12. 1987



IEUICO
ASRICULTURAL LITENSION PROJECT
Suteary rccount By Project CoDponent
(Us$000O)
Ncrual Disttict 'rpenditures                      Incremental District Expe"ditures
__- -           ---    --------            --------                                                                              TOTAL
Tectnical    Producer   Other  '1               Technical    Producer                                   lpa ct      Applied
Services  Organization Activities               Services  Orgai taticn  Training   Wonitoring        Evaluation   Research
I. INVESTIENt COSTS
A. Training                                                                                           O           O         ,544            0                            0           5,544
B. 'iyil orks                                                                                   2, 31            0                         4                          234           2,574
C. Vehicles                                                                                      2,330          334            O0                           0          174           2,637
D. Equipment                                                                                        6Q          233        I,OnS            0               3          380           1,690
E. Technical Assistanre                                                                               0           0        1,386            0               O            0           1,396
F. Studies                                                                                            0            0 05                    Q              82            0             186
Total IWVESTNE4T COSTS                      Q            0            0                 4,740          567       ?,039            n4                         788          14,215
I[. RECURRERT COSTS
A. Normal Salaries                              !2,53           194       15,146                      0           0            0            0               0            0          34,593
D. Incresental Salaries                                           0            0                    127         788          356          243               0        1,332           2,847
C. Worcal Operating Costs                       11,126            0        5,361                     0            0            0            0               0            0          16,4K6
0. Incremental Operating Costs                                    0            0                     0          43!           82            0               0          887           1,406
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 30,379           94       20,507                    127        1,227         438          243               0        2,219          55,r3.6
Total  ASELINE COSTS                            30,379          194       20,507                 4,867        1,7t4        0,477          243              84        3,007          69,554
Physical Contingencies                      0            0           0                    354           2e         402            0                4          51             B40
Price Contingencies                    1,159            0         558                    570          103         836            0               9          167           3,403
-- --       -- --        -- --                 --  --       -- --                     .. , .          -- --        ------ 
Total PROJECt WST5                              31,538          194       21,066                 5,791        1,925        9,716          243              °7        3,226          73,797
=-Ss a :-= = = s::2                              :e ::       :=a:s        ::2           =       ~                       Z3~atez82 
Foreign Exchange                    4,668            0        2,250                 3,462          739        4,777            0               3        1,016          14,915
1I Includes adoinistration, planning, social promotion, and operations; prograas in rural infrastructure and irrigation C05I not included.
rthrc 12, 1966
*Iz
NM



- 44 -
Annex 6
Table 8
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJICT (PMOCATI)
Physical Targets: By District
Total
Central                       Two       Twenty
Highlands     Northwest    Districts  Diserlcts
I.    Incremental Staffing 1/
Technical level                12 (38)        9 (273)     21 (311)    210
Support level                   3 (49)        - (275)      3 (324)      30
A. Technical Services
Technical level              2 (29)        - (183)      2 (212)      20
Support level                - (29)       - (132)       - (161)       -
B. Producer Organization
Technical level              4  (1)        7   (1)     11   (2)    110
Support level                1  (0)        -   (0)      1   (0)      10
C. Training 2/
Techiales  level             3  (0)        1   (0)      4   (0)      40
Support level                2  (0)        -   (0)      2   (0)      20
D. Mooltoring
Technical level              3  (0)        1   (0)      4   (0)      40
Support level                -  (0)       -   (0)       -   (0)       -
E. Other Activities 3/
Technical level              -  (8)        -  (89)      -  (97)
Support level                - (20)          (143)      - (163)
II.   Vehicles                        13             51            64         640
III.  Civil Works
Support center offices          2 4/           2            4           40
IV.   Research
InvestTgation unlt 5/           3              3            6           60
V.  Technical Asslstance
Domestic (man-months)            -              -            30         118
Foreign (man-months)             -              -           24           92
/7  Existing staff In parenthesis.
/ Participants and courses detailed In AMnex 4.
3/ Does not Include district staff assigned to rural lnfrastructure and
Irrigation operations.
4/  Plus one center to be rennovated In Ruamantla (total 3)0
!/  Includes investigator, vehicle, equipment, and clvil wofrs.



- 45 -
Annex 7
Page 1
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
Production and Benefits
Background
I.        During project preparation, feasibilit.y studies were prepared for
four Rural Development Districts (RDD), one in each of Mexico's four
agroecological zones (arid, temperate, humid tropics, and dry tropics). This
analysis led the appraisal to conclude that two zones should not be included,
namely the humid and dry tropics. In the humid tropics the priority need is
for infrastructure (roads, drains and storage) which the Bank-financed
PRODERITH II Project (Loan 2658-ME) is better able to provide. The dry
tropics' proposal lacked an overall, coherent agricultural policy. The zone
is also high risk, agriculturally-marginal and the research and extension
base is very poor. Since the project was seeking to develop a replicable
project for priority areas, it was concluded to focus on two zones only.
2.        This annex describes the likely production impact of the project in
the two agroecological zones which comprise the project area. In the
temperate central highlands the pilot district appraised was Huamantla,
Tlaxcala. In the irrigated areas of the arid Northwest the pilot district
appraised was Cajeme, Sonora. The following information is provided on each
district: description, adoption of technology; yields; crop budgets; and
farm incomes.
3.        Although the project is now based on studies of only two of 20 RDD
which will comprise the project, this is considered acceptable in this
specific case. In the temperate areas, additional district proposals will be
partially drawn up about four of the sucessful districts developed under
PLANAT. This will make preparation of the feasibility studies relatively
straightforward. In the arid northwest, the irrigated areas are relatively
homogeneous, farmers are more commercially-oriented and the quality of
extension and research is relatively good. This would again make the process
of prepararing feasibility studies fairly straightforward.
Huamantla, Tlaxcala: Temperate Central Highlands
4.        Description.  This district is located between 2,300 and 4,300
meters above sea level; average rainfall is 650 mm p.a. in the period April
to September, with about 852 in the period June to August, Frost and hail
can pose problems. The total area under agriculture and livestock is about
122,300 ha; about 77,000 ha under agriculture (7,000 ha irrigated and 70,000
ha rainfed) and 45,300 ha (potential) livestock.



- 46 -
Annex 7
Page 2
5.        The crop composition on the 77,000 ha is as follows:
ha         X
Maize - best conditions                  16,000      20.8
Maize - average conditions                8,000      10.4
Maize - marginal conditions              35,000      45.5
Horse bean                                3,000       3.9
Barley                                    2,500       3.2
Wheat                                     2,500       3.2
Others (minor crops)                     10,000      13.0
There are about 19,012 farmers (resulting in an average farm size of 4.05 ha)
with 17 district extentionists.
6.        Adoption of Technology. Based on recommendations becoming
available from the validation research over time, improved performance of the
district extensionists following skills-related training, and improved
coordination of the agricultural service agencies, it is assumed that
adoption of recommended practices will develop as shown in Table 1.
7.        Yield projections.  It is assumed that farmers will gradually (over
a 5-year period) adopt the recommended practices and thus increase their
yields accordingly. Yields remain constant where present technology is being
applied. Yield projections follow:
(T/ha)                                     Year
Present    1     2     3     4      5
Maize - best conditions                3.0     3.2   3.4   3.6   3.8   4.0
Maize - average conditions             2.5     2.6   2.7   2.8   2.9   3.0
Maize - marginal conditions            1.25    1.25  1.25  1.25  1*25  1.25
Horse bean                             0.85    0.9   1.0   1.1   1.2   1.25
Wheat                                  2.0     2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.5
Barley                                 2.1     2.2   2.35  2.45  2.6   2.7
8.        Crop Budgets.  Crop budgets have been prepared for maize, horse
bean, wheat and barley with present technology and at full adoption of
recommended practices (year 5 of any farmer). Gross Production Values
(yield x price), on-farm costs, and Net Value of Production (NVP) per ha per
crop are presented in the statistical appendix.



- 47 -
Annex 7
Page 3
A summary of NVPs per ha per crop follows:
Present        At Full Ado tion
-- Pesos/ha ---
Maize - best conditions                        175,550             228,950
Maize - average conditions                     128,450             154,100
Maize - marginal conditions                     44,200              44,200
Horse bean                                     103,000             158,900
Wheat                                           82,350             112,300
Barley                                         145,550             200,200
9.         Farm Incomes and Project Impact.  Crop composition, average farm
size (para. 5) and NVPs per ha (para. 8) dictate farm incomes under Present
Technology and at Full Adoption. Average farm incomes are given below:
Averg                    No et Value of Productiom In Pesos/ha
in Project Ar              Present TecRlulc     FuAtll g
Nez - best caiditirs              20.8          0.84         175,550           228,950
Mie - average cxiditims           10.4          0.42         128,450           154,100
i   ize - muginal coditions       45.5          1.84          44,200            44,200
HIrse bean                         3.9          0.16         103,000           158,900
Barley                             3.2          0.13         145,550           200,200
wheat                              3.2          0.13          82,350           112,300
&ibtotal                    87.0          3.52
Others                            13.0          0.53           n.a.             n.a.
TAL                         100.0          4.05
Av e Net Fan Inoae (Pesos)
aize - bst canitins            147,462                   192,318               44,856
Mize - average caditios         53,949                    64,722                10,773
Vbize - arginal coxditims       81,328                   81,328
Have bean                       16,480                    25,424                8,944
Barley                          18,922                   25,026                 7,104
oust                            10,705                    14,599                3894
9ibtotsl                  328,846                  404,417                75,571
Otlurs                           neas                     n.a.
On average the project shows a difference in farm income of pesos 75,571 over
about 87% of the farm, or pesos 86,863 per farm at full adoption of validated
recommendations if the other (minor) crops are taken into account.



- 48 -
Annex 7
Page 4
Cajeme, Sonora: Irrigated, Arid Northwest
10.       Description.  This district is located at about sea level in an
arid zone. All crops are cultivated under irrigation. The total area under
crops is 231,200 ha of which 272,000 ha are cultivated resulting in a
cropping intensity of 118%. With improvements in land levelling,
rehabilitation of some irrigation and drainage works, and a more efficient
usage of irrigation water, the cropped area could be extended to 330,000 ha
(143% cropping intensity). However, in this project no benefits will be
claimed from such improvements.
11.       The crop composition on the 272,000 ha cropped area is as follows:
ha                   _
Wheat                              130,000                  47.8
Soybean                             61,000                  22.4
Maize                               24,500                    9.0
Cotton                              17,500                   6.4
Safflower                           10,000                   3.7
Others (minor crops)                29,000                  10.7
There are about 24,785 farmers (resulting in an average farm size of 9.33 ha
of which 11 ha - 118% intensity - are cropped) with 91 district
extensionists.
12.       Adoption of Technology.  Based on recommendations becoming
available from the validation research over time, and improved coordination
of the agricultural service agencies (mainly timely credit), it is assumed
that adoption of recommended practices will develop as shown in Table 2.



- 49 -
Annex 7
Page 5
13.       Yield Projections.  It is assumed that farmers will gradually (over
a 5-year          adopt the recommended practices and thus increase their
yields accordingly. Yields remain constant where present technology is being
applied, however, in the 82,900 ha where improvements in works are required
(Table 2, footnote 1) yields are depressed. Yield projections follow:
(T/ha)                                      Year
Depressed yields of areas in need   Present    1        2     3      4     5
of Improvements:
Wheat - 20,000 ha                       4.0
Soybean - 28,700 ha                     1.8
Maize - 24,000 ha                       3.6
Cotton - 2,100 ha                       2.2
Yield projections with the
project:
Wheat                                 4.7     4.8   4.9   5.0   5.1   5.2
Soybean                               2.1     2.15  2.2   2.25  2.3   2.4
Maize                                 3.9     4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4
Cotton                                2.6     2.65  2.7   2.75  2.8   2.9
Safflower                             1.6     1.65  1.7   1.8   1.9   2.0
14.       Crop Budgets.  Crop budgets have been prepared for wheat, soybean,
maize, cotton and safflower with present technology and at full adoption of
recommended practices (year 5 of any farmer). Gross Production Values (yield
x price), on-farm costs, and Net Value of Production (NVP) per ha per crop
are presented in the statistical appendix.
A summary of NVPs per ha per crop follows:
Present       At Full Adoption
…Pesos/ha-
Maize                                        202,280            247,780
Wheat                                        205,800            246,300
Soybean                                      166,875            207,975
Cotton                                       381,485            445,385
Safflower                                     48,650             87,100
15.       Fam incomes and Project Impact.  Crop composition, average
(cropped) farm size (para. 11), and NVP- per ha (para. 14) dictate farm
incomes under Present Technology and at Full Adoption. Average farm incomes
are given below.



- 50 -
Aum 7
Pae 6
h&erMge Cop OUR  itiu        Net Vabie of Prouctimn In Pesoa/ba
in Prgect Ar        }a'&      n    m                      A Io
TDwesaeTdy&,
kbast                           7*35          0.81            150,600           150600
SObea                          10.55          1.16            118,275           118,275
mdiae                           8.82          0.97            176,600           176,600
Cbtton                          0.77          0.08            300,285           300,285
Otbrs                           2.98          0.33              n.a.              neat
Sobtotal                    30.47          3.35
wbat                           40.44          4.45            205,800           246,300
Soybean                        11.88          1.31            166,875           207,975
mdme                            0.18          0.02            Z20,210           247,780
(bttm                           5.66          0.62            381,485           445,385
Safflomw                        3.68          0.40             48,650            87,100
Others                          7.69          0.85              na.               n.a.
otal                        69.53          7.65
! TOML                     100.00         11.00
L~~~~~~~J _
1/ M about 82,900 ha requiring im=vaints In lad leelling and in relbilitation of
irrlg andu z  drainag  wrks.
Net Fem        (PeI)
(Depes Yielde )I' -
WEast                           121,986                    121,986                _
Soybean                         137,199                    137,199                _
NNiZ                            171,302                    171,302                _
(Otton                           24,023                     24,023                _
Subtotal                     454,510                    454,510                _
others                            n.a                         n..
(Fo,U Mopdcia)
lEeat                           915,810                  1,096,035              180,225
SoYbean                         218,606                    272,447               53,841
mbiZe                             4,046                      4,956                  910
aDtton                          236,521                    276,139               39,618
Ssffkmwer                        19,460                     34,840               15,38D
Subtotal                   1,394,443                   1,684,417             289,974
Otbers                            nea.                        n.a.                -
TOMAL                      1,848,953                  2,138,927                997Z



- 51 -
Annex 7
Page 7
16.       In average the project shows a difference in farm  ncome of 289,974
pesos over about 89% o    e  arm, or pesos 324,719 per farm at full adoption
of validated recommendations if the other (minor) crops are taken into
account. Farm incomes are expected to increase further once the improvements
in irrigation and drainage works have been materialized.
17.       Benefit estimates to be derived from the increased support of the
extension service in the rainfed livestock and forestry activities in the
northeast of the district have not been made due to the lack of proven
extension packages for these subsectors at present. It is expected that some
basic research cum validation research will be needed prior to the
formulation of extension packages which cater to the farmers specific needs.
The formulation and implementation of a research program, and the preparation
of validated extension packag . may require from five up to 15 years, a long
term process.



- 2 -
mmaIO                             Akc  7
-  ble I
ARIM3L E&CM4 PRW= - (E)
Production ard Beneits
Tellcgy Mpto t: HtAWANA
Prekt         1           2     1    3           4           5
Preset Rclxuilo                                                    ha
Maize-best cwditlons                 16,000      12,000     10,000       7,000      4,000 
Maize-average conditloru              8,000      6,000       4,000       2,000       1,000      _
Maize-marginal croditionsl/         35,000      35,000     35,000      35,000      35,000     35,000
Hobse beam                            3,000       3,000      2,500       2,000       1,000      -
Wheat                                 2,500       2,000      1,500         500        -         _
Barley                                2,500      2,000       1,500         500        _         -
Othesl/                              .O0OOO      10,000     10,000      10,000      10,000     10,000
Subtotal                   77,000      70,000     64,500      57,000      51,000     45,000
Aotn hAi= Iai Tchmlog                                     -        hi -
Maize-best cxditiort                   -          4,000      6,000       9,000      12,000     16,000
Maize-     - rage *ditlor              -          2,000      4,000       6,000       7,000      8,000
Hore besn                              -           -           500       1,000       2,000      3,000
Whea                                   -            500      1,000       2,000       2,500      2,500
Barley                                 -            500      1,000       2,000                  2,500
Subtotal                     _7000                12,500      20,000      26 000     32 000
IUtAL                      77,000     77,000      77,000      77,000      77,000     77,0
Adoption Pate of
Recm ded   clo(%) 2/                   -           9          16          26          34         42
Niwer of Producers
-'resent Technology                  19,012      17,284     15,926      14,074      12,593     11,111
-doption Rec amuied Technology         -         1,728       3,086       4,938      6,419       7,901
lxmber of EKtensionists
-Prert Technology3/                    17          10          8           7          6           5
-doption Rec   : led Technology       -           7           9          10          11         12
Proportion Producers
to Ratenionists
-_pesert Tecinoloy                    1,118       1,728      1,991       2,010       2,098      2,222
-Adoption RecPume Technologya/         -           247         343         494         505        458
1/ ND dages in agricultural practices are expected in ma  urder marginal axditions and in the other (minr)
crops. Dhs no inreutlm benefits are clainm  nder the project from this area (45,000 ha).
2/ B   s of the relatively high proportion of mainal agricultural lard (45X) for  &ch no recaiuned
pacap   is expected to be deeoped in the short nor the Mledi term, the theoretical rmdmd   adoption
rate muld be 55% of *dich about 75X w=t  be achieve  under the proect.
3/ Tb amber of eKtersiorists worldrg in the area where no dwges are expected in agriculturl tecnolcgy
dfro  17 to 5. It is d_eId necessary to maintain contact with the faremrs inolved (SAM
regulatory fzito   ), coordinate the agricultural service agencas, sar try to find alternatives for
developmt In the mrgnal mafe ame.  Althotgh the rnber of eateruorodsts will rerin the am, the
qusUty of aboxt 12 of the 17 nre to be Improved either through traisrg or trazfer.
4/ On the basis of an etwiomist involvemunt of 3.5 years per famr.



- 53 -
MMCD                        Am~~~~~~~wix 7
Table 2
AaUMRUR  E5IG  PM= - (M=)
ftouiction and ufitAft
m_cK  :u ck 
Pfinm         1           2     1     3          4 
pteant TclwL/                                                      ha
.he                                 130,000     1 18,000    98,000      74,000      40,000      2D,000
Soyla                                61,000     56,000      50,000      41,000      33,000     28,700
maiza                                24,50       24,400     24,300      24,200      24,100     24,000
Cottof                               17,500      15,500     12,500       8,500       4,500      2,100
Saifflow                             10,000      9,000       7,500       5,000       2,000       -
Ot _9m2/                             29,OO0      29,OOD     29,'00      29,000      29,000     29,000
aiIdotal                  272,W0     251,900    221,300    181,7t00   132,600    103,800
Adt(m   amded Rhduw I.                                   -          ha
Wht                                              12,000      32,000     56,000      90,000    110,000
Soybam                                            5,000     11,000      2D,000    23,000       32,300
Main                                                100        200         300         400         500
cotton                                  _         2,000      5,000       9,000      13,000     15,400
Safflawr                               _          1,0oo0     2,500       5,000    _8,0D        10,000
Sultotal                     -         20, 100    50,700      9   300    1394        168,200
Wm22 ,L                   272,000                2720,800    2000    V2             272,000
Adpto  Pas of
Pe_mntd Tchnoly (2) 3/                 -           7           19         33          51         62
Aubur of Prod£ums
-Prent Techiology                    24,785      23,086     20,514      17,192      13,065      10,643
-Adption R_omuded Tachno1loy           -          1,694      4,266       7,588      11,715     14,137
sumr of Exteuionists
-Wwer Tectrlogy 4/                     91        60 (3)      46 (4)      30 (5)      28 (6)      8 (8)
-Aoption RecPuwde1 Teuwlog             -         28          41          56          67         75
Proportion fto,dwer
to b       u  .ioit8
-PtrsTechnolo                        272         385        446         573         726       1,33D
-doption R     _idof Te      5/       -          61         104         136         163         149
1/ This area  aLeA  about 82,900 ta requiritg imnpro   ts in lad levelliUg ard in XhsbilitatiDn of
irrlgtim aid draln  mo*ds.  The crppitg f.tersity is  ammi to be 1OOL  lIe croppr  intensity of the
re.idtg 148,300 ha is 127.52.
2/ th dw'i  !n agriolazd practics are apet  in the othar (mfror) crops wr the project. Thti no
incremental bldits are clalad fros this area triner the project.
3/ Bse m about 302 of the area reuir                 in the irrptifa  inf i  utce, the theretical  nwdar
aloptio  te wux   he aboet 702, of AIch about 90% mld be achei unier the project. Ibis relatively
1h  prmport   is aqto      to be possible becaise Faruts are pared to a highly madunizei, capital
iiterivw, adl mWait otietel tym of  rtculture.
4/ ha mjibwr of extetuiadsts in the aea r-ere no clng  In agrititural practices are epected dcream
fhn 91 to 16.  It ts deemad nesrsuy to notain sontact with the farme   mlved (SARI rulatory
functims), WA  to wordite the agricutural service   ades (tuinly credit).  it is envisag  tlht abot
8 of the   Ioitsw (startig with 3 in year 1) wiii focus their wrk cn esleds Uv ck aid forutry
activizi  in the NtIrtutemn prt of the district of lAich Uttle is 1nha pr_¢ly.  Tn garal, the
actaios sgervi  in tdis distrIct is of satisfactory quality bt nod  o ba e reocugeS an sarvicig th
fts,' n_ek.
5/ Ch tha bats of ac£     ctstloist iwolvmt of 3.5 yau  per fr.



- 54 -                           Annex 8
Page 1
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (PROCATI)
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Technical File
Appendix                                         Name of Document
1l             Bank Subsector Report No. 5255, dated November 14, 1984
entitled "MEXICO: Extension Services Subsector Report",
Volumes I and II.
2.             Technical File: Agricultural Research, Consultant Report by
R. Laird, July 1986.
3.             Technical File: Institutional and Manpower Development (Sp)
by A. Tobelem, November 1986.
4.             Technical File: Production and Benefits, December 1986.
5.             Technical File: Economic Analysis, December 1986.
6.             Technical File: Detailed Project Costs by Component.
7.             Technical File: Producer Organizations (Sp).
8.             Technical File: Women's Agroindustrial Unit (Sp).
9.             Technical File: Monitoring and Evaluation  Sp), Consultant
Report by C. Ponceano dated November 1986.
10.             SARH Preparation Report (Feasibility) on Project.  Two
volumes (Sp), dated October 1986.
11.             Administration of SARH.  Two Volumes (Sp), dated October
1986.
February 6, 1987



-        L   mUG       x  - OWSM)
ina sr&e . _   V2                             u
Atntrqtmtoa            Osta                    g   of ft(d.
0- Duc                           W. Atok.3   4 A . & trq
at r  I utry Iicy                            sytm             afteof                   _*
30  >t~                     IC 9IW 9tAt3
-~  ~  .0Sirltn .                                                          0m
braimw ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Eaa.ew
DIUP btr .~  hl                    UO;t. I     1ku It               e     ___        _     l
J_ OW _r at__
of                     1                                     .  rKary
,_._ ._._._ H
a   m.-           .-.   



n --o - m
C-4                                   a-
4i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~v
p "ftlm  3 oniblws                      tnxfam p
3lPd 9  1~W4  PX4I            auw
I o r 1W                                                                                r    WI ) 1W Id 
r   l  X |1  1 w                                      fnl  lsnl  IW>SI I    I~~~nl-*W
1  -  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pwpr_sw                                   _              wWUkw _ 9_qP  F 
bJ1                  1 3D                                             r   L                  I
(LId -OM       1Va lI4 1w dZ
(on3i



- 57 -
Chart 3
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I a.
i1919~~~i
tX' A~~~I



iio.
UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA
Erno,,da \ 
OAJA                                                             --Ci*i
CAIlfORNIA                                                                       N.
4-  -._    J             l-\         u a h~~~~~~~~~~~~hiuaha    Lpeda
BAJ               Guaymtosb         CAJEME           wt>                      %/
CAlIfORHtA                                                                         C Otv,v'14 A  I
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 
,,> Loreto   tf  |         \ J        X   y   \   \    /~~~~~~L Aw
\  Torreo6n  +
\               \  S                          l    1~~~~~G'O 
4.laPaz0D ltuR A N G  0                                          A         L
NC X ,    Duraln -RACA    A
Mozotldn          .       '                SAlt U
Cabo~M- San L                                     n 
NARI                  A        EY
iTepic I    (
Puertoiiortal4.   Guodol              .
dJAI15C0
/
4.'rn 0- ',i
MCa ;ll4      , VApatzino  H11CHO
KILOMETERS 0     100     200      300     400     500
MILES O           100          200          300
110*



IBRD 2037
CA
.-   ,-
Cd Acvo\-                                                                                MEXICO
cj. Acuh*a\t                                                    AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Pielaos                                                                                  (PROCATI)
Pilot Rural Development Districts
I @ IA o to                                                                              Irrigated, Arid Northwest Region
NuevoLanredoA                                                                         Temperate Central Highlands Region
4 Monci           IA    National capital
/ ,-  t       A\tv                                                               b     State capitals
N     t   0v Ren _.                                                              °    Principal cities or towns
onter e        \              Motamoros                                              Divided highways
--- ,-I                                                                                        Selected nain roads
0 t,                                                                              -         Railroads
/                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
too     > f44U:A                                                +     Principal airports
(   /  >0 \ l    &                                                       -  -   Stote boundaries
dS| /   I           Ciu d--. International boundories
/, Q,[           Vict/ria
-    .    W~~~~Cd. Man
mr   ~~~~~~~c
C. Madero
Tampi'co
Pt                       Pta. Ju6re2
~~WANAJ  so  ~~~~             uMerido
VbacI "~r~,Campeche
4  'i. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  4 ~~~~~~QUINAN
M  ~~~~~Q  Job  a                                                             R~~~~~~~~~~~~OO
4TL                                          coacuzhetuinal
4  /  CAAEPCHE
SonAwh**vxfl
&W -Rs _.
BELIZE
Acowice  _   ( oAJrdvA   2 tY       2 ~~~~~~_=  j;    Tuxtaeirez                              I 
Aca~S' OAAC                             b =                                 APA. S!
Puso <sot   GUATEMALA                                                                          /
~~~~~~/ /
TapOc                                 t HONDURAS
FEBRUARY 1987



