Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCLAL USIE ONLY
ReportNo. 13157
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2859-ME)
JUNE 15, 1994
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit
Mexican Peso (Mex$)
Currency Exchange rates during implementation
Year              Mex$/ US$
1986               575.4
1987              1353.7
1988              2282.0
1989              2464.0
1990              2821.0
1991              2950.0
1992              3050.0
1993                 3.1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)         =    10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) =    0.38 square miles (mi2) = 100 ha
1 metric ton (m ton)   =    2,205 pounds



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGSAL               Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ATP                 Agricultural Technology Project
CP                  Post Graduate College
(Colegio de Postgraduados)
DDR                 Rural Development District
(Distrito de Desarrollo Rural)
FMDR                Mexican Foundation for Rural Development
(Fundacion Mexicana para el Desarrollo Rural)
GOM                 Government of Mexico
IICA                Interamerican Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
(Instituto Interamericano para la Cooperacion en la Agricultura)
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
INIFAP              National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research
(lnstituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales, y Agropecuarias)
IPM                 Integrated Pest Management
MIS                 Management Information System
PACTO               Economic Solidarity Pact
PECE                Economic Growth and Stabilization Pact
(Programa Econ6mico de Crecimiento y Estabilizaci6n)
PLANAT              National Program for Assistance to Rainfed Areas
(Programa Nacional de Apoyo a la Agricultura de Temporal)
PROCATI             Agriculture Training, Extension and Research Program
(Programa de Capacitaci6n, Asistencia Tecnica e Investigaci6n)
PRODERITH           Program for Integral Development of the Humid Tropics
(Programa de Desarrollo Rural Integral para el Tr6pico Hilmedo)
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SARH                Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(Secretarfa de Agricultura y Recursos Hidrlulicos)
T&V                 Training and Visit extension
UAIM                Unidad Agroindustrial de la Mujer
(Women's Agroindustrial Units)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR.OFCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 15, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:        Project Completion Report on Mexico -
Agricultural Extension Project (Ln. 2859-ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mexico - Agricultural Extension Project
(Ln. 2859-ME) prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was
contributed by the Borrower and is substantially in agreement with Parts I and m  but puts more
emphasis on procedural issues.
This was a pilot project in 13 percent of the rural development districts in Mexico, which
aimed to develop a workable system to improve national agricultural extension. The monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) component was unable to provide concrete evidence of the benefits of the
extension investments relative to extension in non-project areas. This was associated with the normal
difficulties in reliably assessing extension impact, the limited time-frame of the project (delayed for
18 months after effectiveness due to budgetary problems), and some inadequacies in the M&E
process.  Although  a series of institutional changes complicated  implementation  and some
components were not fully implemented, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Some findings
and lessons have been taken into account in formulating the larger Agricultural Technology Project
(ATP-US$ 150 million) which became effective in September 1992. Institutional development was
modest, but will be further developed in ATP which addresses extension, research and their linkages.
Budgetary constraints not only affected counterpart funding in the pilot project but have also
impacted on ATP, so that sustainability is uncertain.
Although the Project Completion Report provides a broadly satisfactory summary of
project outcomes, it does not assess critically key design issues which such a pioneer operation might
have tested.
The project may be audited in conjunction with the ongoing ATP when the latter is
completed.
Robert Picciotto
by Hans-Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT, PROCATI
(Loan 2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Ni.
Preface ............................................. i
Evaluation Summary  .....................................   iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity  ..........               ........................    1
2. Background . ....................................  1
3. Project Objectives and Description  ......................   5
4. Project Design and Organization  .......................   6
5. Project Implementation  .............................    8
6. Project Results  ..................................  10
7. Project Sustainability   ..............................  13
8. Bank Performance  ................................  13
9. Borrower Performance  .............................  14
10. Project Relationship   ...............................  14
11. Consulting Services ................................  14
12. Project Documentation and Data ........................  16
13. Lessons Learned   .................................  16
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . 17
PART mI: SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...                                     ....... 27
Table 1  Related Bank Loans  ...........................  28
Table 2   Loan Data  ..........                 .......................  29
Table 3   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements ...                 ...  31
Table 4   Project Implementation  .........................  32
Table 5   Project Costs and Financing  ......................  33
Table 6   Project Benefits ..............................  34
Table 7   Status of Loan Conditions  .......................  37
Table 8  Use of Staff Resources  .........................  38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT, PROCATI
(LOAN 2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Extension Project
(PROCATI) in Mexico (Loan 2859-ME) in the amount of US$20.0 million equivalent, which
was approved on June 25, 1987 and signed on July 31, 1987. The loan was closed on June
30, 1993, one year behind schedule, and fully disbursed on November 22, 1993.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations
Division (LA2AG) of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR has been based on the findings of a mission to Mexico by a
Bank Consultant, interviews with government officials and Bank staff, and the review, inter
alia, of the project Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the President's Report, the Loan,
Guarantee, and Implementation Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and Borrower's reports received in the
field.






-iii-
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT, PROCATI
(LOAN 2859-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Loan Objectives
1.    As a pilot designed to strengthen Mexican agricultural extension and adaptive research
effort, an Agricultural Extension Project (PROCATI) was appraised in October 1986.
Signed on July 31, 1987, the Loan became effective on August 28, 1987.
2.    The PROCATI project had seven principal objectives aimed at testing strategies to
enhance the quality and cost effectiveness of agricultural extension services in 20 of the 192
rural development districts (DDRs) in Mexico. Those objectives were:
(a)   to better understand farmers' needs before implementing extension programs
by involving farmers in design and evaluation of extension and research;
(b)   to improve the quality of extension staff through selection, training, and
technical support;
(c)   to focus extension on priority areas, farmers' groups and women's
organizations;
(d)   to stimulate greater sharing of extension costs by farmers and State
Governments, and increase competition from private technical assistance
groups;
(e)   to streamline the operations of the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water
Resources (SARH) based on (i) the actual needs of farmers at the district level
and (ii) cost effectiveness criteria;
(f)   to improve coordination among extension, farmers, research, input suppliers
and credit agencies;
(g)   to focus adaptive research on validation and diffusion of technology by actively
involving researchers and extension agents in demonstration plots in farmers'
fields.
Implementation Experience
3.   Implementation of the US$ 73.8 million project was satisfactory after an initial and
serious problem with implementation due to the lack of counterpart funds. Although the
project became effective in August 1987, there was no project budget number until late in



-1v-
1988 and counterpart funds were not made available until 1989. Instead of the envisaged
four and one-half years implementation period, the project was really implemented over 3
years (1989 through 1991), during which time the availability of funds was adequate.
Although the original project completion date of December 1, 1991 was extended one year,
until December 31, 1992, the final year was dedicated primarily to completion of civil works
and in-service training to strengthen the central extension organization and had only a minor
effect on the 25 DDRs eventually included in the project. The loan closing date was
extended to June 30, 1993, twelve months behind the schedule at appraisal. The total of
US$ 20 million was fully disbursed on November 22, 1993.
4.    A second major implementation difficulty was that SARH, the implementing agency,
underwent four reorganizations during the project life. The frequency of personnel changes
broke the continuity of project management and made the project less sustainable.
5.    A third major implementation difficulty was in the use of a unified system for project
monitoring and evaluation. The system was never fully incorporated into the functioning of
SARH, and evaluation of the project's impact is necessarily incomplete, therefore.
6.    Subsequent operations, notably the Agricultural Technology Project (ATP, Loan
3465-ME) have incorporated lessons from this experience into their design, management, and
Bank supervision (see Part I, paras. 5.01 through 5.07).
Results
7.    Considering the initial difficulties with implementation and budget, project results
were satisfactory. Key Indicators show that component objectives were achieved at rates of
75.2% for research, 89.3% for technical assistance, 106.9% for organizational development,
and 77.5% for training. The project envisaged technical assistance being provided to 20
districts. By the end of 1988, this number had been increased to a total of 25 districts. This
increase was justified by the successful completion of acceptable feasibility studies in five
additional districts and the depreciation of the peso with respect to the dollar.
8.    Results from the training and technical assistance components in the forestry
subsectors were consistently weaker than in crops and livestock; the ATP is doing more in
the forestry subsector and sector work on forestry and natural resources is further identifying
research and extension needs. While the technical assistance to women's agroindustrial units
(UAIMs) far exceeded project goals, staff opinions of the component were unfavorable.
9.    Three main indicators of project impact--producers' opinions, financial benefit-cost
ratios for individual crops, and project economic benefits--were positive. PROCATI farmers
were much more likely to practice only rainfed agriculture than irrigated, indicating project
success in reaching the chief target population. PROCATI farmers used more improved
maize and wheat seed than non-PROCATI farmers but the differences were not statistically
significant; PROCATI farmers did use significantly more weed control. PROCATI



_v
producers were significantly more likely to receive extension services than non-PROCATI
producers. For producers receiving some form of extension, both PROCATI and non-
PROCATI, there was no difference in the quality of extension services or in producers'
knowledge of research results.
10.   Average financial cost-benefit ratios for maize, beans, wheat, and sorghum calculated
for six DDRs in 1990 and nine in 1991 did not give conclusive evidence about project
impact. Ratios achieved by producers in PROCATI were higher than those achieved by non-
PROCATI producers in four crops in 1990 and two in 1991. With respect to economic
benefits to the project as a whole, 29 of the 31 economic benefit-cost ratios to extension were
greater than one, i.e., extension had a positive economic impact in nearly all instances.
Comparing the PROCATI program to the regular program, PROCATI has a higher cost-
benefit ratio in 11 of 15 comparisons, though the mean differences between the PROCATI
and regular programs were not significantly different in 1991, in 1992, or for the two years
combined. The main conclusions are that extension had a nearly universal positive economic
impact, but that the impact of PROCATI extension was not significantly different from that
of the regular extension program.
11.   As envisaged in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), some extension services have been
transferred to the private sector. Although an institutional evaluation pointed out that this
transfer ranked low in quality as a component, the Cajeme District in Sonora, which is an
irrigated district with wealthier producers who can be expected to pay for extension,
reported about 90% of the extension technical assistance salaries are now being paid by the
private sector.
12.   Consulting contracts were signed with the Colegio de Postgraduados (CP) to design
and put into operation a system of project monitoring, with the Instituto Interamericano de
Cooperacion para la Agricultura (ICA) to provide services in institutional strengthening, and
with the Fundacion Mexicana para el Desarrollo Rural (FMDR) to provide technical
assistance and training in two of the lesser-developed areas of Mexico.
13.  Institutional strengthening became more of a source of short-term consultant resources
than a program to develop the institutional capability of SARH. Reductions in staff at the
central organization were compensated by employment of these and other staff paid from the
IICA/SARH contract for institutional strengthening. As a result, the capability of SARH to
continue as a strengthened organization was dependent upon the availability of funds from
IICA to pay for operating costs.
14.   A project monitoring system was designed by CP which was simple and featured the
capability of being managed by relatively inexperienced personnel. Though training was
given in theoretical and practical use of the system, project management failed to use the
system completely. Monitoring was further hampered by technical problems and lack of
trained personnel.



-vi-
15.   FMDR's role in project implementation was small but effective and reached some of
the poorest population of the project area. As a model of what could be done to assist in
development, the FMDR contract was an excellent example of how bureaucratic processes
could be reduced thus assisting in the effectiveness of a technical assistance program. As a
result of FMDR's contribution, an increase in animal production is expected over the next
ten years in the range of 25-50%.
Project Sustainability
16.   Project sustainability depends upon: (a) future extension funding to create adequate
incentives to retain trained staff in the public extension service; (b) continuity of public
extension; and (c) transfer of extension costs to wealthier private producers and the ultimate
development of a private extension service to serve those producers. The project was to
have solidified the funding base of public extension by concentrating it on poor farmers and
by providing salary, working conditions, and training incentives for staff. By its pilot
nature, the project could not achieve those objectives by itself. The only realistic expectation
is that it could demonstrate the successful solution of some of the well-known problems of
the extension service in the mid-1980s. A positive factor was that project objectives were
constant throughout implementation.
Findings and Lessons Learned
17.   The main project lesson is that a timely and adequate project budget is necessary for
successful implementation. While the project had a strong initial commitment from the
government at negotiations, that commitment was not respected during 1988, which was the
first full year of implementation. The same problem has occurred with other Bank projects
with even stricter budget commitments. The budget issue can best be addressed at the
institutional level, i.e., between the Bank and the Borrower in a dialogue that covers all
projects. A second lesson is that institutional stability is crucial. Though one of the project
objectives was to assist development of a unified national extension system, that objective
was not successfully met because of several reorganizations of the project unit with SARH.
A third is that effective project evaluation depends upon adoption of a unified monitoring
system. Once agreed to, an organization should not abandon the system arbitrarily, nor
should several evaluation systems be used in a single project such as the PROCATI project.



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT, PROCATI
(LOAN 2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name:            Agricultural Extension Project, PROCATI
Loan No.:                2859-ME
RVP Unit:                Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:                 Mexico
Sector:                  Agriculture
2. Background
2.01. Mexico enjoyed more than three decades of high economic expansion after World II,
with annual GDP growth averaging 6.5% from 1965-1980. An import substitution strategy
was followed during this period. Central administrative controls were often used to guide
economic resource allocation. By 1970, Mexico had exhausted the easier possibilities for
import-substitution. The Government then attempted to stimulate the economy by expanding
public sector expenditures and by encouraging even more import-substitution. The strategy
of domestic stimulus failed and in 1976 Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic
crisis.
2.02. The major oil discoveries in 1977 temporarily relieved the serious financial and
economic problems of the mid-1970s. The oil boom led to a short-lived economic recovery,
further stimulated by an expansion of foreign borrowing. The external borrowing lessened
the urgency of major economic adjustments. Public external debt grew from US$40 billion
in 1979 to US$78 billion in 1981. This rapid expansion was ended by rising world interest
rates and the simultaneous decline of oil prices which forced the government of Mexico
(GOM) to declare a moratorium on its external debt service in 1982. Associated with the
govemment's growing indebtedness, inflation escalated from 29% in 1981 to 159% in 1987,
real wages fell, and GDP growth averaged only 1 % in the 1980s.
'he Govermnent's Economic Stabilization and Reform Programs
2.03. The govemment that came to power at the end of 1982 began measures to redress the
country's financial and economic deterioration. The International Monetary Fund (IMF)



- 2 -
supported a stabilization program, launched in 1983, that stopped the deteriorating fiscal and
payments trends briefly. External creditors accepted a comprehensive restructuring package.
By 1985, however, inflation began to recur. The Government then adopted a deeper
stabilization program designed to eliminate structural rigidities in the economy. The program
comprised a move towards integration with the world economy and a disengagement of the
state from the economy. Major trade reforms--notably joining the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in 1986--were undertaken to open the economy and to encourage
efficiency in export and import-substitution activities. Beginning in the second half of the
1980s, Mexico became one of the more open economies in the world. Trade liberalization
lowered the coverage by import quotas of domestic (non-oil) tradeable production from 100%
in 1984 to less than 15%. Non-oil merchandise exports, which were less than one third of
total exports in 1984, have doubled their share.
2.04. In December 1987, the Government reached an Economic Solidarity Pact (PACTO)
with labor and business to cut inflation which had then run into triple digits.' The PACTO
included tightening of fiscal and monetary policy and renewed efforts to liberalize trade, de-
regulate credit and divest public enterprises. These measures were supplemented by a
temporary freeze of minimum wages and of public sector service prices and, initially, by a
fixed nominal exchange rate against the US dollar. Performance under the PACTO has often
exceeded expectations, even given the further decline in oil prices and the high real interest
rates on foreign debt at the end of 1988. The fiscal deficit was brought in line with the
PACTO's low inflation targets and the PACTO was extended at three months intervals
through 1988.
2.05. In December 1988, the PACTO was renewed and refocussed to improve the budget
situation and to consolidate price stability. Under this renewed PACTO--now called
Economic Stabilization and Growth Pact (PECE) most prices have been decontrolled, while
the levels of public sector prices and the minimum wage have been partially adjusted for
inflation. The PECE has been extended several times and is still in force.2 The
PACTO/PECE measures have helped reduce inflation from 159% in 1987 to 52% in 1988
and to 20% in 1989. Although inflation rose to 25% in 1990, it later fell to 19% in 1991
and to less than 10% in 1993.
The Agricultural Sector
2.06. Mexican agriculture expanded at over 4% annually after World War II until the mid-
1960s, in excess of the population growth rate of about 3%. Output growth resulted largely
from the expansion of cultivated area: irrigated area increased by 4.5% annually from 1947
to 1965 and total harvested area grew at more than 6.3%. Beginning in the mid-1960s,
1.  Mexico's reforms included an international debt management strategy, which is described in the Project
Completion Report of the Public Sector Enterprise Reform Project (Loan 3086-ME).
2.  In the most recent renewal, in mid-October 1992, there was a move to a more flexible exchange rate system, with
an explicit band where the ceiling is being raised by MexSO.4 per day.



- 3 -
agricultural GDP growth fell to around 3.0% between 1965 and 1980 and to less than 1.0%
during 1980s. The slippage in agriculture's growth was due to limits on suitable land for
expansion, to the rising cost of irrigation development, and to the cumulative effects of the
inefficient agricultural policies of the past three decades.
2.07. The main agricultural policy objective in the 1950s and 1960s had been to maintain
low prices for consumers and high prices for producers. To implement those policies,
Mexico had a tightly state-controlled agricultural policy with major interventions in
production, credit, technology, inputs, storage, and processing. Principal policies were:
(a)  guaranteed prices of 12 major crops (maize, beans, wheat, barley, rice,
sorghum, soybeans, safflower, cottonseed, copra, sunflower and sesame),
implemented by government purchases of 15% to 50% of output, usually above
world levels, thus distorting resource allocation;
(b)  parastatal intervention in the production, processing, and marketing of cotton,
tobacco, coffee, feeds, tropical fruits, seeds, cocoa, and basic grains (maize,
beans, wheat, sorghum, and soybean) that were inefficient and harmed
incentives for private investment in those activities;
(c)  public investments in land clearing, that may have pushed agriculture onto
marginal lands giving low economic return;
(d)  heavy subsidies through provision of below market costs of credit, fertilizer and
pesticides, irrigation, machinery, and livestock development, induced allocative
efficiency costs; and
(e)  fixed prices of basic foods, implying subsidies to consumers, covering more
than half of agricultural production in 1987, a level only slightly less than
previous years.
2.08. Other policies had indirect negative effects on agriculture. An overvalued exchange
rate discriminated against the production of agricultural tradeables. Quantitative restrictions
affected 100% of agricultural and industrial production, thus damaging the domestic terms of
trade for agriculture. Input subsidy costs and the costs of maintaining subsidized agricultural
parastatals added to the fiscal deficit. The net effect of indirect intervention was to suppress
private initiatives in agriculture and to retard growth.
2.9.  The economic crisis of 1982 eliminated some of the dual subsidies to producers and
consumers as the budgetary crises also cut the government's ability to support farmers. The



-4 -
GOM began major policy reforms of its agricultural sector in the mid-1980s. Its chief goals
were to:
(a) improve resource allocation efficiency by strengthening market mechanisms and
cutting govemment intervention in markets;
(b) increase productivity by raising public and private investment; and
(c) reach the poorest consumers by increasing income transfers through targeted
food subsidies.
2.10. The role of the Bank in assisting those reforms is described in the following section.
The Role of the Bank
2.11. Prior to approving the PROCATI Loan, the Bank played an important role in
Mexican agriculture between 1976 and 1986, when it loaned US$2,727 million for
20 projects. To deal with the financial and economic crisis beginning after 1982, there was
an increasing need for the Bank to support structural adjustment loans. For political reasons,
however, the GOM did not want structural adjustment loans, but preferred that long-term
issues be addressed through sector adjustment loans.3 These sector adjustment operations
formed a policy package to build the framework for the increase in private investment
necessary to spur growth. The first such loan affecting agriculture was AGSAL I (Loan
2918-ME) approved in FY88 for US$500 million followed in 1991 by AGSAL II (Loan
3357-ME) for US$400 million. These loans were associated with a broad policy dialogue on
agricultural prices, trade, and food consumption policies.
2.12. The Bank made several investment loans to help restore agricultural growth. Three
operations helped to improve humid tropical agriculture. The first Integrated Development
Project for the Humid Tropics (PRODERITH I, Loan 1553-ME, approved for US$55 million
in April 1978) sought to exploit the potential of the wetter areas by investing in drainage,
roads, and agricultural extension. It contributed to the conceptual foundation of PROCATI
by showing that farmers could significantly increase their average yields of annual crops such
as maize, sorghum and beans through better access to extension and through proper linkages
between research and extension. This project completed successfully and led to a second
phase (PRODERITH II, Loan 2658-ME, approved for US$109 million in March 1986) that
began in 1986. The second project sought to extend the methods and results of
PRODERITH I to a wider area of tropical Mexico. A third, Chiapas Rural Development
(Loan 2526-ME, approved for US$90 million in April 1985) sought to better production in
Chiapas state, one of the country's poorest.
2.13. The Bank supports several other major operations designed to focus government
policy on public goods and to raise sectoral efficiency. It is financing an Irrigation and
3. Sce the Project Completion Report of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2918-ME) (November 10,
1992) for a complcte list of sector adjustment loans (including hybrid operations) to Mexico.



- 5 -
Drainage Sector Loan (IDSP; Loan 3419-ME, approved for US$400 million in December
1991) designed to make irrigated agriculture more efficient through rehabilitation of works,
new investment, and sectoral policy changes. An Agricultural Technology Project (ATP;
Loan 3465-ME, approved for US$150 million in May 1992) seeks to: assist in generatirg
technology through applied and adaptive research with emphasis on products and regions
where private research is weakest; validate technology using adaptive research in
collaboration with the extension service; transfer technologies to producers via extension;
improve the capacity of public institutions by strengthening their ability to identify problems,
manage scientific problems, and use research results from extemal sources; and to establish a
sustainable improvement in funding for agricultural research and extension including
participation by the private sector. A Regional Decentralization and Development Project
(Loan 3310-ME, approved for US$350 million in March 1991) is assisting the govemment'3
largest poverty program in the four poorest agricultural states.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01. Although improved technical packages had been available to Mexican producers since
the mid-1970s, adoption of these technical packages was slow, partly due to inefficient
extension. The Bank and the GOM prepared an Agriculture Extension Services Subsector
Report (Report No. 5255, November 1984) to review sources of inefficiency in the extension
service. The report noted several problems that Mexico's extension service had in common
with other developing countries. They were: inadequate funding; lack of staff training; poor
targeting of public services to small and poor farmers; and poor linkages between research
and extension.
3.02. The report further identified five specific needs in Mexico:
(a)  an improvement in training at the level of local staff and farmers, as opposed to
professional training;
(b)  technical support to field extensionists from experts at the central and district
levels;
(c)  methods to improve extension salaries and to establish a career path to attract
and retain qualified staff;
(d)  better response to producers' needs by an increase in farmer participation; and
(e)  a regularization of field activities by making adequate operating expenses
available in a timely manner.
3.03. Based on the report, SARH, with assistance from IICA, prepared a project aimed
toward revitalization of agricultural extension as part of the program of economic recovery.
The project was designed to be consistent with the government's move away from an
agricultural policy based on subsidies toward one based on productivity-based growth. It was
to be an important part of the investment counterpart to the Bank's strategy to promote policy
reform (see para. 2.11). Broadly, PROCATI recognized the need to: improve productivity
on cultivated areas as opportunities for area expansion disappeared; assist SARH in



improving extension and research services; alleviate poverty among project beneficiaries; and
streamline SARH.
3.04. PROCATI was a pilot project aimed toward testing strategies to enhance the quality
and cost effectiveness of agricultural extension services in 204 of the 192 Rural Development
Districts (DDRs) in Mexico. Farm incomes would increase through transfer of profitable
production techniques to a greater number of farmers. Its detailed objectives were:
(a)  to develop a better understanding of farmers' needs prior to implementing
extension programs;
(b)  to improve the quality of extension staff;
(c)  to focus extension on priority areas, farmer groups and women's organizations;
(d)  to stimulate greater sharing of extension costs by farmers and State
Governments, and increase competition from private technical assistance groups
already operating in certain areas;
(e)  to strcamline SARH's operations based on (1) the actual needs of farmers at the
district level and (2) cost effectiveness criteria;
(f) to improve coordination between extension, farmers, research, input suppliers
and credit agencies; and
(g)  to focus adaptive research on validation and diffusion of technology.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.01. The project had five components designed to respond to the specific problems
identified in the sector work, to support the government policy reforms intended to raise
productivity, and to meet project objectives (see para. 3.04). They were: (a) Extension;
(b) Institutional and Manpower Development; (c) Research; (d) Monitoring and Evaluation;
and (e) Technical Assistance and Studies.
4.02. Extension. The project was envisaged to implement the Training and Visit (T&V)
system. Experiences gained and successes achieved through other operations dealing with
extension (PRODERITH I and PLANAT (Loan 1945-ME)) were integrated into the
conceptual framework. Improved extension methods were to be targeted toward priority
farmers, notably the poor and women.
4.03. Institutional and Manpower Development. Institutional development was to take
place at three levels. At the central level, the project was to assist with the streamlining of
SARH's operations and with preparation of general job description and skill-gap profiles. At
the state and district levels, it was to assist with decentralization of extension to the DDRs,
which would receive logistical support from the center to strengthen the effectiveness of their
4.  By January 1989, the number of districts under the project had been increased from 20 to a total of 25.



- 7 -
field extension staff. Field staff, individual farmers, and producers' organizations would also
receive training to reduce skill-gaps related to technology transfer.
4.04. Research. Background work for the project recognized that closer collaboration
between research and extension (see para. 3.04) and more adaptive research to fit farmers'
needs was required. Accordingly, an adaptive research component was designed, to be
implemented by the National Institute for Research on Crops, Livestock, and Forestry
(INIFAP) in collaboration with extension agents. It was to develop results more for farming
systems and less for single commodities; work more on forestry and livestock in marginal
areas; develop profitable technical packages; and work on integrated pest-management (IPM),
including biological pest control methods as an alternative to chemical control. An additional
problem identified in the sector work affecting the research system was lack of operating
costs. Under the project, that problem was to have been resolved by having all of INIFAP's
incremental costs related to the project reimbursable under the loan.
4.05. Monitoring and Evaluation. Close monitoring and early evaluation of the project
were imperative because of its pilot nature. Each DDR project unit was to monitor the
project in a manner consistent with the goal of decentralizing extension activities to the state
and district levels. In addition, the CP was contracted to evaluate the impact of the technical
packages promoted under the project.
4.06. Technical Assistance and Studies. The project further provided for technical
assistance and studies to support institutional and manpower development, preparation of
DDR feasibility studies, administration and personnel policy, agricultural legislation and its
impact on extension, evaluation of cost-recovery, a study of extension methods, and other
short-term consultancies.
4.07. Although the project was designed chiefly to assist poorer farmers, some features
affected the use of public extension by richer growers. Those were the goals of:
(a) increasing cost sharing from richer producers; (b) promoting more direct technology
transfer from research to farmer groups; and (c) stimulating private extension services to
richer farmers by gradually withdrawing subsidized public extension from the better areas.
4.08. The overall design of the project was sound. Project design was accepted by the
executing agencies at the federal level; the design was successfully communicated to
government authorities at the state and district levels through preparation of the district
feasibility studies (see para. 5.01) at which time those authorities participated in the design
of the project. It was well prepared in that the timing was appropriate in that it was
consistent with the macroeconomic reforms undertaken by the GOM during the mid-1980s.
One of its major features--the effort to reduce and decentralize the SARH bureaucracy and to
target public extension toward poorer farmers--was well accepted by participants as being
consistent with policies at the time of preparation and during implementation. It was based
on a careful identification of defects in the extension service, notably the lack of a
sustainable staff development program. The project was appropriately targeted to two of the



- 8 -
major agricultural regions in which stronger extension and adaptive research could
reasonably be expected to produce a positive economic return.
5. Project Implementation
5.01. The project was appraised on the basis of two DDRs--Cajeme in Sonora state, chosen
to represent the highly productive irrigated agriculture of northwest Mexico, and Huamantla
in Tlaxcala state, chosen to represent the less productive rainfed agriculture of semiarid
central Mexico.5 At appraisal, it was intended that 18 additional districts would enter the
project in 1988 and 1989 based on feasibility studies to be done in candidate districts. Those
feasibility studies were successfully done for 23 additional districts; 11 districts entered the
project in January 1988 and 12 entered in February 1989 (see para. 5.11).
5.02. The loan became effective in August 1987. There were immediate difficulties with
implementation, due to the uncertainty within the government about the impending elections
of 1988 and the resulting change of government in December of 1988. Funding was not
available in the 1987 budget--despite assurances at negotiations that it would be--or in 1988.
Project commencement was therefore effectively delayed until 1989. In recognition of slow
implementation with respect to appraisal targets, and the addition of 5 more districts, the
project completion date was eventually extended from December 31, 1991 to December 31,
1992. Although the project was to have been implemented over 4.5 years, the lack of
funding in 1987 and 1988 meant that implementation took place only from 1989 through
1991, with only minor activities in 1992. There were no major problems with audit or most
procurement, including contracting of consultants. The chief procurement problem
concerned vehicles (see para. 12.04, 1).
5.03. The following sections discuss the principal implementation difficulties with the
operation and the lessons learned from them.
5.04. Project budget. Although GOM gave assurances that funds would be made available
in 1987, a specific budget commitment should have been a condition of effectiveness,
especially as project budget availability had been noted as a project risk in the SAR.
Subsequent Bank operations in Mexican agriculture have established more explicit budget
commitments (e.g., the Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project and the Agricultural
Technology Project). It has to be recognized, however, that even stricter commitments have
been difficult to respect in light of the GOM's tighter macroeconomic objectives in the early
1990s.
5. The humid tropics of Mexico were excluded from thc project area because they were covered by the PRODERITH
I and 11 projects, and by the Chiapas Rural Development operation. The arid areas without irrigation were
excluded because their productive potential was deemed too low.



- 9 -
5.05. SARH reorganizations. A further implementation problem was caused by the four
SARH reorganizations during the project implementation period. Though the roles of the
institutions involved in project implementation were clearly identified, each change in SARH
administration brought new personnel into the project and disrupted continuity. Unfamiliarity
with the project delayed support from the central headquarters until routines could once again
be established. A permanent project coordinating unit would have maintained continuity
throughout the reorganizations. In the ATP, the Bank and the GOM have agreed on setting
up a project unit for better continuity in project management.
5.06. The SAR recognized that the extension service was technically strong but imperfectly
managed (see para. 4.03). Management was weakened further by changes in leadership
during the project, instead of being strengthened through training and technical assistance as
intended under the project. Another management difficulty was the failure to develop a
close working relationship between research and extension within SARH and INIFAP (see
para. 4.04), though working links between research and extension at the district and state
levels were much closer. The project unit in the ATP is making an effort to improve
collaboration between the research and extension components of that project; early
indications are that the effort is successful.6
5.07. Project monitoring. In October 1988, an agreement was signed between the CP and
SARH for monitoring the project DDRs. The CP trained 46 persons, including 17 from the
rural development districts, in use of the system. Much of the DDR data was collected and
interpreted with varying methods because the project monitoring system was never fully
adopted. This has made results of the project evaluation less reliable and less useful for the
subsequent ATP. Reasons for failure to use the system fully were: (i) changes in PROCATI
personnel on four occasions during implementation; (ii) failure on the part of the PROCATI
central headquarters to officially instruct the DDRs to use the system as designed;
(iii) resignation of 14 persons trained in the operation of the system; (iv) failure of 3 DDRs
to employ personnel to operate the system; and (v) diversion of computer time to other uses.
5.08. The design of the monitoring and evaluation effort was too ambitious and lacked
initial input from the DDRs. Repeated changes in project management impeded its
development and effective use. The ATP is now developing a management information
system (MIS) for INIFAP. The MIS seeks to avoid the errors of PROCATI by being limited
to a single component (research), by being developed with careful consultation and testing at
all levels of INIFAP to ensure its relevance, and by having supervision of a single consultant
by the ATP project unit.
5.09. Information dissemination. Producers complained that technology was not
disseminated in a timely fashion. Extension publications are of poor quality due to the lack
of proper equipment in the DDRs. Wider use of nationwide radio and television, as planned
6. The extension system used was basically extension to groups of farmers using demonstrations and discussions,
supported by mass media and some formal courses at training centers.



- 10-
at appraisal, would have assisted in disseminating information to a wide audience in reduced
time. The ATP has funding to improve the information dissemination services of the
extension service.
5.10. Extension staff training. An improved quality of extension staff through better
training was one of the main objectives of the project. Though the revised targets for
numbers of extension technicians to be trained were not achieved under the project, extension
staff receiving training were satisfied with the quality and coverage of the training. The
failure to achieve the targets was due to lack of resources, but the training component, as
reviewed during Bank supervisions and in the CP evaluation, was considered to be a highly
successful one.
5.11. Increase in number of DDRs. The project originally envisaged 20 DDRs. The
number grew to 25 by February, 1989. Given the funding shortfalls in the initial years, it
might have been more prudent to have held the number of districts at 20 in light of the
possible difficulties with counterpart funding over the longer-term. The request was made by
the Government based on the acceptable feasibility studies in the additional 5 districts and the
real depreciation of the peso.
5.12. Alternate income sources. Falling world prices for commodities harm farmers who
depend on one or few products. The extension service was historically too inflexible to
provide new information to allow producers to diversify or to make reliable recommendations
about alternative income sources. One objective of PROCATI was to make extension more
responsive to producers' needs, and this did succeed (see para. 6.01). The GOM's efforts to
move some public extension activities to the private sector, as supported by the Irrigation and
Drainage Sector Loan and by the proposed Rainfed Areas Development operation, are
improving this situation.
6. Project Results
6.01. Overall objectives. Some of the broad objectives of the operation (see paras.
3.04.(a), 3.04.(c), and 3.04.(e)) were to better understanding of farmers' objectives, to focus
extension on priority areas, and to streamline SARH's operations. The chief instrument to
develop a better understanding of farmers' needs was the successful preparation of the
district feasibility studies (see para. 5.08.). These studies served as the basis of project
implementation in each district and project supervision showed extension staff were aware of
and responsive to producers' needs. The objective of focussing on priority areas and poor
farmers' groups was sometimes met in that the choice of rainfed DDRs is a good selection
mechanism to reach poorer farmers; the subsequent ATP has extended this to put even
greater emphasis on poorer rainfed areas. The objective of streamlining SARH's operations
based on cost-effectiveness criteria was not met as the executing agencies did not undertake
cost analyses of extension work done under the project or under other auspices.



- 11 -
6.02. Improving staff quality. The project sought to improve the quality of staff through
institutional and manpower development (see para. 3.04.(b). A major effort was made to
train extensionists and farmers in the crop, livestock, and forestry subsectors (Part III,
Table 4). The actual levels of training provided to both producers and technicians were far
below appraisal estimates in those sectors, indicating that the latter had been unrealistically
high. The unrealistically high estimates were apparently caused by an over-projection of the
prospects for training under the project based on the initial feasibility studies of only two
DDRs.
6.03. Results were similar for training of forest producers, but not for training of forestry
staff, where less than 50% of the target staff were trained. This indicates an incapacity to
marshal the higher-level expertise needed to train forest extensionists; this issue was raised
during project supervision and is being dealt with in the ATP. Training of technicians in
project management, monitoring, and evaluation provided by ICA (Part III, Table 6.G) was
largely successful; because of high staff turnover, however, the training has less sustainable
impact than it should have, especially with respect to the computerized monitoring and
evaluation system of the project (see para. 5.07). The institutional development aspect of
the project was less successful because of the frequent turnover in central project
management (see para. 7.01).
6.04. Private technical assistance. One project objective was to stimulate greater sharing
of extension costs by farmers and state governments, and to increase competition from
private firms already operating (see para. 3.04.(d)). Some extension services have been
transferred to the private sector, though this was occurring before PROCATI. The transfer
continued largely independently of the project, though the latter may have had some limited
effect on it. Although an institutional evaluation pointed out that this transfer ranked low in
quality as a component, the Cajeme District in Sonora, which is an irrigated district with
wealthier producers who can be expected to pay for extension, reported about 90% of the
extension technical assistance salaries are now being paid by the private sector.
6.05. Adaptive research. The revised quantitative targets of this component were not fully
met (Part III, Table 5). They were only achieved at a rate of 61 % in livestock, 76% in
forestry, and 83% in crops, because of the shortened effective implementation period of the
project. Despite the shortfall in meeting some targets, this subcomponent was a useful means
of validating new technologies, of demonstrating them to producers and to extension staff in
collaboration with researchers, and of providing information from producers and
extensionists to researchers outside experimental stations. The adaptive research component
contributed effectively to the objective of improving coordination among extension, farmers,
and research (see para. 3.04.(g)).
6.06. Productivity results. The final index of project results is its impact on agricultural
productivity. The CP evaluated the project's impact based on a sample survey of 6 DDRs in
1990/91 and 1991/92 (Part III, Table 6A through Table 6H). Three main indicators of
impact were selected: (i) producers' opinions about farming practices, as an indicator of



- 12 -
technical change; (ii) financial benefit-cost ratios for individual crops, as indicators of the
financial profitability of the main crops as affected by the project; and (iii) project economic
benefits, as a very partial indicator of the project's effect on economic growth--were
generally positive about extension services in general, but showed no consistently and
statistically significant difference between PROCATI and non-PROCATI extension. No
global analysis of the impact of the project was carried out.7
6.07. With respect to farming practices, PROCATI farmers were much more likely to
practice only rainfed agriculture than irrigated, indicating project success in reaching the
chief target population of rainfed producers. PROCATI farmers used more improved maize
and wheat seed than non-PROCATI farmers but the differences were not statistically
significant; PROCATI farmers did use significantly more weed control. PROCATI
producers were significantly more likely to receive extension services than non-PROCATI
producers. For producers receiving some form of extension, both PROCATI and non-
PROCATI, there was no difference in the perceived quality of extension services or in
producers' knowledge of research results.
6.08. Project impact on crop yields was measured in the two districts--Cajeme, Sonora for
the irrigated areas and Huamantla, Tlaxcala for the rainfed areas (see para. 5.01)--used to
appraise the project.8 In the rainfed district, the evidence about project impact on yields was
mixed (Part III, Table 6B); wheat yields were above targets in all three years, but below the
targets for maize in two of three years. There was no consistent positive impact in faba or
beans. In the irrigated district, (Part III, Table 6A), actual maize, soybean and cotton yields
were below the targets in 1989 through 1991; actual wheat yields were below target yield in
two of the three years. The failure to observe a positive effect of extension on crop yields
may have been related to the elimination of fertilizer subsidies during the years of project
implementation.
6.09. Average financial cost-benefit ratios were calculated for maize, beans, wheat, and
sorghum grown by PROCATI and non-PROCATI producers in six DDRs in 1990 and nine in
1991. The calculated ratios varied from 1.11 to 2.21 in 1990 and 1.17 to 1.88 in 1991
(Part III, Table 6F). PROCATI ratios were greater in four crops in 1990 and two in 1991,
but there was no significant difference between PROCATI and non-PROCATI farmers. No
conclusion can be drawn from this result about PROCATI extension in particular.
6.10. With respect to economic benefits to the project as a whole, 29 of the 31 economic
benefit-cost ratios to extension were greater than one, i.e., extension had a positive economic
impact in nearly all instances. Comparing the PROCATI program to the regular program,
PROCATI has a higher cost-benefit ratio in 11 of 15 comparisons, though the mean
7.  A non-PROCATI producer is one who is in a DDR in which PROCATI is active, but who does not participate in
the project.
8.  Analogous estimates of productivity gains in livestock and forestry were not made at appraisal for lack of proven
extension packages for the major commodities in those subsectors.



- 13 -
differences between the PROCATI and regular programs were not significantly different in
1991, in 1992, or for the two years combined. The main conclusions are that extension had
a nearly universal positive economic impact, but that the impact of PROCATI extension was
not significantly different from that of the regular extension program.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01. The project was a pilot designed to test new approaches to bettering public extension.
The long term sustainability of those approaches depends upon: (a) continued funding to
maintain trained and motivated staff in public extension; (b) continued mandate and structure
of public extension; and (c) transfer of extension costs to wealthier private producers and the
ultimate development of private extension to serve those producers. The project was to have
solidified the funding base of public extension by concentrating it on poor farmers and by
providing additional salary, working conditions, and training incentives for staff. By its pilot
nature, the project could not achieve those objectives by itself. Given the government's
weak initial budget commitment to the operation (and to the follow-up ATP) and the many
organizational changes during the project, PROCATI did not succeed in promoting a
sustainable mandate or funding. The transfer of extension services from the public to the
private sectors is proceeding slowly and PROCATI had some limited positive effect on the
transfer.
8. Bank Performance
8.01. Bank performance in project preparation was good. PROCATI was supported by
adequate sector work and was designed adequately in collaboration with the relevant
government agencies, with one major exception. The project was part of a consistent Bank
strategy to support the agricultural policy reforms. While the sectoral adjustment operations
were important to advance reforms, they needed complementary investment operations, such
as PROCATI.
8.02. The project had good staff continuity and regular supervision missions during the
implementation period. Only two Task Managers were in charge of the project throughout
implementation. Supervision missions were timed at 6 months or less during the project and
had good contact with the various project components, agencies, and DDRs. Bank staff were
in regular contact with project management during missions for other operations, and for
sector work on agricultural technology (Report 9297-ME of August, 1992), and by other
means. Extensive field visits were made during supervision missions to check progress in
the districts, at associated INIFAP research sites, and in project headquarters. Given the
relatively small size and brief duration of the project, the supervision plan, which did not
include an annual or mid-term review, proved adequate.



- 14 -
8.03. There were important shortcomings in the Bank's performance during
implementation,9 nonetheless. A major shortcoming was the failure to seek additional
supervision resources for the livestock, forestry and women's activities in the project and in
the failure to meet project targets in forestry activities (Part III, Table 10).
9. Borrower Performance
9.01. Borrower performance in project preparation, notably in absorbing results of the
initial sector work, identifying candidate project districts, and carrying out feasibility studies
in them (see para. 3.01), was timely and of adequate quality to meet project objectives.
There were several weaknesses in the Borrower's performance during implementation,
however, due to the constant reorganizations of the executing agency (see paras. 5.05
through 5.09) and to the overall funding problems for the project. These weaknesses were
seen in the monitoring and evaluation component and supervision of consultants, especially in
that SARH lacked capacity to analyze technical and economic problems arising from project
implementation and to take actions to resolve them. Another major weakness was the lack of
contact between project management and the other branches of SARH, especially the General
Directorates of Technical Assistance of Crops, Livestock, and Forestry. The ATP has been
designed to correct that problem by establishing explicit institutional links between the
research and extension services in a single project management unit; it also supports
thorough studies of the impact of research and extension on agricultural productivity to
establish the basis for policy actions.
10. Project Relationship
10.01.     The Bank-Borrower relationship during this project was good. The project led
to broader dialogue on extension and research, as seen in a Grey Cover Report on the
Agricultural Technology Sector (Report 9297-ME, August 20, 1992) and to a much larger
follow-up ATP, based in part on the lessons learned from PROCATI. Insights developed
during PROCATI were used also in preparation of the Irrigation and Drainage Sector Loan.
11. Consulting Services
11.01.      CP was contracted to monitor and evaluate PROCATI. In 1989, CP prepared a
benchmark study of the 25 project DDRs. During the first semester of 1991, an intermediate
evaluation of the project was done in six Districts. Beginning in the second semester and
continuing until the first quarter of 1992, CP prepared a fuller evaluation from 19 of the
remaining Districts. Of these 19 Districts, 9 were used for an economic and financial
9. One was the loss of the project preparation files during the 1987 reorganization, but this did not appear to have a
measurable impact on implementation.



- 15 -
evaluation (see para. 6.06). Noticeably missing from the CP final project evaluation were
evaluation data pertaining to livestock and forestry.
11.02.     Presentation of evaluation data. The final evaluation of the PROCATI project
as presented by CP contains data which are presented in less than clear and understandable
format. In August 1992, this evaluation was rejected by the Bank in that it failed to give the
basis for a sound economic analysis of project impact. Even now, this evaluation cannot be
used to draw conclusions regarding the full impact of the project or to design future projects
with complete confidence. Project impact is being measured in the subsequent ATP through
a more detailed study of the impact of agricultural research and extension on productivity.
11.03.     HICA provided services in institutional strengthening, training, and special
studies. Due to reductions in staffing of PROCATI at national headquarters and restrictions
on hiring additional personnel, as a part of institutional strengthening, IICA contracted and
paid for 739 person/months of salaries. In addition, the IICA contract paid for computers,
office supplies, maintenance of vehicles, and other expenses as institutional strengthening. In
effect the IICA contract served as a means of project management under contract.
Sustainability will probably depend, to a large degree, on the amount of financial assistance
which can be directed toward salaries and operating expenses of the organization, thereby
reducing Government's responsibility for operational costs.
11.04.     Training and Technical Assistance. IICA provided effective technical
assistance for operational support to project management, including contracting consultants,
procuring communications and computing equipment, and preparing the ATP. IICA also
provided effective training to project technicians (Part III, Table 12). Both the technical
assistance and training were much less effective than they may have been because of the
frequent changes in project management and the associated departure of many trained
technicians.
11.05.     The Fundacion Mexicana para el Desarrollo Rural (FMDR) signed a one-
year contract with SARH in June 1991 to provide technical assistance and training to two
DDRs in two poor areas. FMDR began in San Luis Potosi and in Oaxaca states in August
1991. In San Lufs Potosf, projects included marketing, genetic improvement of stock,
animal health, and pasture improvement. As a result of FMDR's efforts, animal production
is expected to increase 25-50% in two years. In Oaxaca, 16 groups were selected comprised
of 209 members. Projects included forage conservation, water use, animal health and
nutrition, maintenance of records, and use of herbicides and fertilizers. Special assistance
was given toward legalization of producer's groups to enable them to receive credit to
expand herds and to make other necessary investments.' Technological packages from
INIFAP were provided. Results were less than anticipated due partly to climatological
conditions. Although the FMDR's activities were limited and not subject to a formal
10. Of the 16 groups, 10 have been legally established. The remaining 6 groups are in the process of legalization.



- 16 -
evaluation, its impact appears to have been valuable and can serve as a model for contracting
of private extension with public monies; the FMDR has in fact been continued under the
ATP. Success is owed to the fact that FMDR pays higher salaries, thereby attracting better
staff, and that personnel are hired only when they have been evaluated carefully.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01.      The legal agreements and appraisal report were generally satisfactory with at
least three exceptions. First, PROCATI is one of the rare projects that financed passenger
vehicles (cars and pickup trucks) in Mexico." Allowing the exceptional financing of
vehicles under local competitive bidding (LCB) caused many complications in implementation
that could have been avoided had the Bank insisted on ICB or if the loan had not financed
vehicles. Second, the disbursement schedule for recurrent costs in eligible districts was
unnecessarily complicated because of the differing project years of the Guarantor, the
Borrower (NAFIN), and the Bank with respect to the dates when districts became eligible.
In the follow-up ATP project, this problem has been eliminated by simplifying the
disbursement schedule for eligible extension districts. Third, the requirement on the
Government to increase cost-sharing for extension was inadequate and little progress was
achieved. The ATP has no conditionality for extension cost-recovery, but has been designed
to target (subsidized) public extension services to poorer farming areas and to leave the
richer areas to the private extension sector.
13. Lessons Learned
13.01.      The project imparted several important lessons. The main one is that a timely
and adequate project budget is necessary for successful implementation. While the project
had a strong initial commitment from the government at negotiations, that commitment was
not respected during 1988, which was the first full year of implementation. The same
problem has occurred with other Bank projects with even stricter budget commitments. The
budget issue can best be addressed at the institutional level, i.e., between the Bank and the
Borrower in a dialogue that covers all projects and sectors. A second lesson is that
institutional stability is crucial for good results. Though one of the project objectives was to
assist development of a unified national extension system, involving producers and
researchers in addition to extension staff at all levels, that objective was not successfully met
because of several reorganizations of the SARH. Those reorganizations disrupted the project
unit and ultimately impaired the implementation of the operation. A third is that effective
project evaluation depends upon adoption of a unified monitoring and evaluation system that
is institutionally sustainable. Once agreed to, an organization should not abandon the system
arbitrarily, nor should several evaluation systems be used in a single operation.
II. Import of vehicles into Mexico is usually restricted and hence vehicles can only rarely be procured under Bank
guidelines. In the ATP, the Bank does not finance vehicles imports unless it is done under ICB.



- 17 -
H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE






- 18 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT, PROCATI
(LOAN 2859-ME)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Design
1.    PROCATI was adequately designed to fulfill its objectives. Beginning with a study of
agricultural technical assistance in Mexico, appropriate regions were selected, regions where
adequate agricultural and institutional infrastructure already existed. Within the selected
regions, representative Rural Development Districts (DDRs) were selected in such a way that
results and experiences derived from the project could be applied to other neighboring
districts.
2.   In each of the eligible Districts to be incorporated into the Project a specific study
was carried out including the State Framework, the District Framework, the Diagnosis for
the Project's four components (Technical Assistance; Organization; Research and
Development) and an Executive Synthesis. Based on these elements a four-year program was
formulated for each component, where objectives, strategies and goals were defined. These
documents were assembled as the District Subproject.
3.    Though PROCATI was a pilot project, it was far from a simple project. It was
complex in its instrumentation and implementation, due to the number of required steps and
procedures that had to be followed in order to obtain the necessary support to achieve its
objectives and goals. In accordance with the investment categories and project components,
the following steps had to be taken: prepare technical documents for civil works; to obtain
authorization for the acquisition of buildings and vehicles and for hiring consultants; to
provide economic incentives for the district personnel; and to prepare the structure of budget
items and its allocation with Project activities, and recurrent costs.
4.    One of the pilot characteristics of the Project--among other aspects--was to integrate
and link the above procedures. Said procedures--known and adequately estimated--should be
applied in order to improve efficiency in the implementation of similar projects.
5.    With respect to the design of this type of projects, it is considered that it would be
convenient to include a more accurate analysis on the feasibility of reaching proposed
objectives and goals. In the particular case of PROCATI, actions were oriented to impact
low income producers with a potential for productivity. Because farmers had scarce
resources it was not possible for them to cover technical assistance costs. Principally, it was



- 19 -
necessary to improve their economic situation, which requires more time than the one
estimated for this project.
6.    More attention should be given to the definition of operational goals derived from the
cost analysis. This is necessary because part of the goals and corresponding costs are not
related to agriculture, such as public works and technical cooperation agreements. This is
important to avoid overestimating the number of goals to be achieved, which may later be
unfavorably reflected in the impact indicators.
Implementation
7.    The Project had serious difficulties at the outset, principally, due to the lack of funds
and to the reorganization of the Federal Government. In 1988 the Project did not have a
budget. In 1989 it was necessary to reallocate the Annual Programs for Institutional
Development (PADI) because the assigned budget was substantially lower than the one
originally planned for the District Subprojects. In addition, during the first year of real
project implementation, despite the fact that PROCATI had a budget, it did not have the
necessary legal framework to guide Project activities and allocate resources. It is suggested
that prior to Project start-up, the corresponding norms should be researched, analyzed and
incorporated, in order to ensure that the operation can be adequately and consistently
implemented.
8.    In the second year of implementation, the Project had a legislative frame of reference
and the necessary Federal funds. However, for reasons beyond the Project's control a
program structure was designed that, conceptually, did not support the complete
implementation of the components and the investment categories. Because of the above, it
was necessary to carry out a difficult process to prepare a budget that could obtain the
necessary authorization (oficio). All the selected Rural Development Districts participated in
the exercise. Even though the Districts supported the project with resources from the regular
program, there were delays by the end of the year to obtain the necessary funds for
incentives, civil works and the acquisition of goods. This happened because there exist
budgetary numbers that as a norm can only be used after obtaining the corresponding
investment "oficio." This experience indicates the necessity to monitor and coordinate the
budget to avoid preparation problems caused by unavailability of funds. However, even
though fund availability was not always untimely (e. g. in the third and first year of
implementation the investment 'oficios' were obtained at the end of the first two months of
the year), it could be observed that the physical contingencies and the intense concentration
of activities in the Districts, also affected Project implementation.
9.    In order to carry out the different procedures to obtain authorization for the annual
investment program, the Normative Units require presentation of complete document
-- -- ----- --~~~~~~~~~~~



- 20 -
packages from the Districts. The latter could only be fulfilled after distribution of the
project norms had been made. This could take three or four months especially when one of
the Districts was affected by some contingency. That could delay proceedings for the other
districts, unless its investment program had been affected.
10.  In addition it was observed, that the Normative Units were also affected by a heavy
load of activities caused by the fact that above procedures started at midterm but were
concluded by the end of the year. This involved, also by the end of the exercise, the
corresponding demands on the agent and on the financial organization.
11.  In this sense, it is recommended that budgetary allocations be made one year in
advance, for each separate executing unit, to allow sufficiency in the execution of the
components and for the investment categories. This would make it possible to integrate the
annual operative and investment programs at the beginning of the budget year.
12.  It must be clarified that there exist mandatory procedures to be followed prior to
obtaining authorization for the investment. This is to comply with the corresponding
normatives as is the case of the authorization for economic incentives as well as for civil
works. On the other hand, in the external credit programming, contracted under national
norms there were differences in the guidelines; for example the procedures for the acquisition
of goods and the procurement of vehicles. This made it difficult to take the corresponding
steps to obtain authorizations and to review the procedures. In this respect, it is being
suggested that norms--deadlines and established amounts for procurement purposes--for
external credit in this type of projects be made compatible with national laws and
legislations. With respect to PROCATI's goods, such as computing equipment that is being
used for other activities, it must be mentioned that Central Coordination and the controlling
internal agency is determined to correct the situation.
13.  In relation to Bank's comment on the inability to handle higher-level experts, notably
to carry out the training of forestry extensionists, the Project handled not only this, but also
other issues such as contracting consultants; compliance with norms, that in many cases
could not be carried out by the Districts, entering the required documentation, which was not
alway timely presented, complicated things even more because of delayed authorizations for
funds.
14.   Independent from the problems that obstructed implementation of the operation, the
Districts, by consensus, agreed that the Project and the Annual Programs for Institutional
Development through which PROCATI was executed, constituted an important tool for
planning. This tool made it possible for PROCATI to put order and to link activities among
its components, thus focusing on common objectives. This is difficult to do under the
Regular Programs of SARH because there exists no methodology as the one that was
designed for credit 2859-ME.



- 21 -
Administration of the Project
15.   Changes in administration influenced project performance. But, it must be taken into
account that responsible Departments are subjected to institutional policies. As a result, it
becomes important to create basic frameworks that include adequate incentives to guarantee
its permanency. The above was not favorable for PROCATI because it meant rotation of
personnel, that had to be trained once and once again, thus affecting progress in the design
and follow-up of the annual programs. It is estimated that this could be stabilized with an
improvement in the economic incentives, but institutional policies impede increases in staff
salaries. The alternative would be to give better support with resources from the Credit.
Notwithstanding, recurrent costs represent an investment category, traditionally of a lesser
quantity, that limits the granting of better incentives.
16.   In this sense, it is proposed that the Bank review its lending policies to analyze the
feasibility of improving coverage for incremental costs. This would permit coverage of the
deficit, operation costs, as well as of the economic incentives for the staff that participates
directly in the Project and performs the additional activities that support its execution.
Institutional Coordination
17.   At the beginning of the project, in order to define norms for its instrumentation,
institutional coordination was established among the different subsectors in charge of each
component. As a result, an agreement was obtained on the structure for the Annual
Programs for Institutional Development (PADI), the basic planning instrument for the annual
execution of the Project. Likewise, in coordination with the above the main document on
Financial Control and Administration of PROCATI was created. Notwithstanding, changes
were later made in the strategies for certain areas that made continuity in the coordination
difficult. PROCATI should have continued performing under the specific objectives for
which it was designed.
18.   With respect to the controlling procedures, the Central Coordination of the Project
interacted with the different areas/units in charge of budgeting. Here it is recognized that
there were difficulties for Project activities because of the complexity of its operational
structure. In addition, fewer personnel were in charge of a greater number of tasks in the
Normative Areas because according to public sector policies there is a structural
rationalization. A solution that can be adopted to improve timely follow-up of procedures is
to prepare the investment programs with more lead time.
Implementation
19.   Once the Project started it faced several problems that limited its successful execution:
these were (a) lower than planned budgeted resources and, at the District level, funds not
made available at the time they were needed; and (b) in addition to the above, some
Delegations restricted resources from the Regular Program for the Districts. This forced the
Districts to use the budget for operational expenditures, thus decreasing investment for
research and development, producers' organization, and equipment.



- 22 -
20.   There were external factors for the Executor, that also limited the development of the
Project. These were, the availability and access to complementary services for technical
assistance, such as credit, insurance and marketing of inputs and outputs.
21.   During implementation of the Project, credit availability was low, especially for the
potentially less productive areas. Preference was given to those areas that offered higher
profitability margins, such as the country's large irrigated areas. As a consequence,
agricultural insurance was also restricted. As a result the required amount of inputs for the
technological packages, was lower than the one recommended and at a lower scale.
Government withdrawal from production, marketing and distribution of fertilizers, the main
agricultural input, as well as from the marketing of basic crop outputs, affected low-income
producers that at that moment did not have the capacity to get organized and to adapt to the
new schemes.
22.  Inadequacy of the budget assigned to the Project, especially during its starting phase,
resulted in delays in the disbursement program. This motivated the Bank to grant a one-year
extension, thus postponing project completion.
23.   However, it may well be that untimeliness to authorize funds for the Districts had the
greatest adverse impact on the project. This untimeliness, for the previously discussed
reasons, caused authorizations for economic incentives, acquisitions, and civil works and
other contracts to be carried out almost at the end of each project year.
24.   Despite the above, the Project was considered, within the Districts, an important tool
for planning, programming and prioritizing activities, serving as the basis to organize
everyday's work for the field technical advisers. According to the Districts, linkage between
research and technical assistance components was adequate whenever the budget for the first
one was authorized and allocated in their line of credit. Thus, it induced the preparation of
the generating and technological validating programs to meet producers needs.
25.   The SARH program for voluntary retirement of its personnel also had an impact on
project implementation. This affected progress in the programs and the number of staff
trained with resources from PROCATI. In some cases, there were drawbacks as it
happened with the establishment of a system for follow-up and evaluation. Implicitly, these
contingencies affected the workloads in the Districts and resulted in delays in
implementation.
Implementation Results
26.   Solid quantitative elements do not exist to evaluate the results of the execution of the
Project, for the following reasons.
27.   The monitoring and evaluation system (SISE) was designed and instrumented at the
same time that the Project was being implemented. This was done in such a way that the



- 23 -
first version was ready at the beginning of 1990 and it was tested during the same year.
Arrangements were then made to distribute the second version in April 1991, the last year of
Project implementation. The Central Coordination did not make the SISE official because it
was not possible to implement it in all the Districts (lack of trained personnel and of a data
base at the central level to store and generate reports). However, information was received
by the SISE from the districts that had the instruments, thus improvising a data base that
served as a bridge to link this information with the one that was normally carrying out the
follow-up at the central level.
28.   During the follow-up, at the central level information was added by District, on the
activities performed by field technicians and production results. Based on this information
reports were prepared for the "Cuenta of the Hacienda Publica Federal" and the World Bank.
29.   Project evaluation suffered the same problems SISE had. It was agreed that the
"Colegio de Postgraduados" (CP) would evaluate the Project on the level of institutional
development reached by the participating Districts. It would have been measured with
respect to the efficacy of: its methodologies to validate and to transfer technology; the
development programs for its technicians and for the producers; participation in the
programming and evaluation of the technical assistance; and the impact of the Project per
Production Unit in six of the 25 participating Districts.
30.   Although the CP did not have sufficient resources at the outset to establish
background studies at the District level, it only carried out, partially, the evaluation of the
institutional development, and did not keep the part of the agreement that refers to the
assessment of the impact on the production. Additionally, in the Districts, where the SISE
operated, the data obtained was not considered in the CP evaluation.
31.   Despite these difficulties, PROCATI left a methodology of work where technical
assistance is given to link its efforts to producers' organization, research and development.
With this, in a certain sense, the main objective of the Project was fulfilled.
32.   With regard to diffusion of technology by the Project, it is necessary to keep track of
the time required for the adoption of innovations and the elements that characterize it. This
depends, in addition to an efficient methodology for mass communication, on the
characteristics of the targeted population. In the case of PROCATI, the majority of the
producers did not know the technologies that were being supplied by the extensionists. As a
result resistance to change was to be expected.
33.   Producers who contributed to the establishment of demonstration plots are leaders.
Those producers who only participated in meetings to demonstrate methods and results were
in the majority, however. As a result, given the timeframe for implementation of the
PROCATI, it is estimated that technology transfer covered only 50% of the targeted
population.



- 24 -
34.   As a consequence of the above, impact on production will not be known by the end of
the period in which the assessment was made. As a result, the CP, among other causes,
could not find any significant difference between the impact of Technical Assistance from the
Regular Program and that from PROCATI.
35.  In relation to above issue, it is also necessary to emphasize that, traditionally, it is
desirable to evaluate the impact technical assistance had on production. Particularly because
it is well known that technical assistance is not the only factor that determines levels of
agricultural productivity. As previously mentioned credit and agricultural insurance were
reduced during the time PROCATI operated. These factors were not taken into account in
the adoption process of the new technology.
36.   With respect to diffusion of the Project, through mass media communication, this was
made nationwide in the "Hacia el Campo" program. This diffusion was made as widely as
needed because PROCATI did not have a specialized unit to take care of these activities.
Notwithstanding, at the regional level the Districts used radio programs to diffuse PROCATI
and its achievements.
37.   Publications on extensionism were qualified as of poor quality. This was due to lack
of equipment in the Districts. However, there is a solution to this problem. That is, it is not
necessary to edit such publications with equipment from the executing units. There is a
budget item No. 3602 for official publications and printing, which can be used to contract
third parties for the editing of this type of documents. The conditionality is that, the above-
mentioned resource is subject to obtaining the corresponding authorization from the General
Directorate for Social Communications from the SARH. This authorization can be obtained
upon presentation of the justification and description of the document to be edited.
38.   Rural Development Districts perceived procedures for above authorization as
complexity and this restricted their activities. However, it is possible to obtain such
authorizations through proper and timely channeling procedures. This has been verified by
the Agricultural Technology Project.
39.   Untimely diffusion of technology to producers was also a contingency originated by
ill-timed availability of funds, or by delays in presenting the necessary papers on
commitments for budget allocations caused by activity overload in the Districts.
Procurement
40.   As previously mentioned in the beginning of Part II of this document, national
procurement procedures for the acquisition of goods were affected by delays in obtaining
authorization to use budgeted resources. Throughout the life of the Project, except for the
third year, procurement of goods was carried out at the end of the budget year.



- 25 -
41.   However, it must be clarified that execution of these processes vary depending on the
authorized financial calendars. This is determined by the office in charge of budgeting for
the Mexico. Traditionally for investment expenditures these procedures are carried out
during the fourth trimester of the year. For that reason, procurement programming is subject
to the dates in which funds are made available for goods, which happens practically at
completion of the exercise. But even then, above procedures were not always carried out by
the end of the year because in the third year of operations procurement exercises were timely
implemented. What was extraordinary was that procedures for one of the bids were affected
because of the lack of bidders. Thus, later it was not possible to reactivate these procedures
due to time restrictions imposed by the national procurement norms. With this it is being
stated that contingencies in the bidding process can give the wrong impression that there are
too many delays in the implementation of the procedures.
42.   Experience shows that these procedures were also complicated by the lack of
consistency in: the bidding periods; the required validating forms; between credit guidelines
and the national normatives. In addition there were also contingencies due to budgeting
uncertainties and in the market for the acquisition of goods. To this respect it is suggested
that said periods be set parallel to those established by the "Ley de Adquisiciones,
Arrendamientos y Prestacion de Servicios Relacionados con Bienes Muebles." Likewise,
credit restrictions should be defined in accordance to financial restrictions established. In
this way, and especially for international competitive bidding procedures would be carried
out more efficiently.
43.   Another suggestion is that at the Borrower level, procurement guidelines and
procedures for Projects financed with external credit be clearly identified/established. This is
due to the fact that it is necessary to obtain Bank's "no objection," and approval from the
Agency responsible for the Project's "Comite Central de Compras." This can delay and
make these procedures more complex. In addition there exist the risk that it generates
confusions and the normative areas may take decisions that affect the Bank's decisions.
44.   Finally, it is being reiterated that the problem of untimely procedures did not
originate in the Executing Unit of the Project. This was done externally, and it happened
because the Normative Units were overloaded with tasks related to procedures to be followed
by a great number of users.
Lessons Learned
45.   Independently of what originated the untimely availability of funds, it should be clear
that this issue can produce an unfavorable impact in the implementation of any project.
However, even so, PROCATI's performance was satisfactory, especially when considering
its outputs as indicators. PROCATI achieved approximately 90% of the expected annual
exercises.



- 26 -
46.   It is difficult to implement a Project such as PROCATI when public institutions are
being reorganized because of the uncertainties brought about by these changes. In relation to
the above, consideration must be given to the fact that all projects are sensitive to policy
changes, especially if they happen on the developmental process. This is so, even if
decisions are taken to solve these problems. In effect, these facts should be considered when
evaluating project's performance.
47.   Institutional stability is another important issue in Project implementation. To Lthis
respect, it is agreed that it is important to maintain the same support staff. To ensure
continuity in the planned activities, incentives should be provided to the corresponding staff.
In this way progress implementation could be achieved more efficiently. Despite said
problems, mechanisms must be found to ensure the adequate assignment of committed
resources. Agreements should also be made between the Normative Units to speed up the
administrative procedures during the implementation of future projects.






- 27 -
PART III: SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL INFORMATION






- 28 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 1. RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan Title      Purpose              Year of          Status          Corunents
Approval and
Amount
PRODERITH I   Tropical agricultural  1978, for US$56  Completed       Successful project with
development         million                          followup (PRODERITH 11)
under implementation
Chiapas Rural    Agriculture and rural  1985, for US$90  Under        Budget problems will cause
Development     development in       million          implementation, extension of closing date;
Chiapas state                        will close      loan amount is now US$58
12/31/93       million after cancellation
PRODERITH II  Second tropical        1986, for        Under           Budget problems have
agricultural        US$109 million   implementation  caused slow
development                                          implementation; loan
amount is now US$88.3
million after cancellation
First agricultural Support reform of    1988, for     Closed in 1990  Operation completed
sector adjustment agricultural policies   US$300 million              successfully; PCR issued
June 15, 1993
Agricultural    Agricultural research  1992, for      Under           Loan declared effective on
technology      and extension        US$150 million   implementation  September 16, 1992
Second          Support continuing    1991, for       Under           Release of second tranche
agricultural    reform of agricultural US$400 million   implementation  delayed; loan closing date
sector adjustment policies                                            extended to December 31,
1993
Irrigation and  Support irrigation and  1991, for     Under           Loan became effective on
Drainage Sector  drainage investment   US$400 million   implementation  June 18, 1992



- 29 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 2. LOAN DATA
(US$ mi"llons)
Original  Disbursed Canceled Repaid  Outstanding
20       20        0         5.01    15.7
(as of December 31, 1993)
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Original Dates     Actual or Re-estimated Dates
Subsector Study                   14 Nov 84               14 Nov 84
Identification                    NA                      NA
Preparation                       16 Jun 86                16 June 86
Appraisal                         October 1986            October 1986
Loan Negotiations                 April 1987              April 1987
Board Approval                    June 1987               June 1987
Loan Signature                    31 Jul 87               31 Jul 87
Loan Effectiveness                30 Sep 87               30 Sep 87
Project Completion                31 Dec 91               31 Dec 92
Loan Closing                      30 Jun 92               30 Jun 93
Source: Staff Appraisal Report and Division Black Books
Comments at each stage of project cycle
Identification:                   No special comments
Preparation:                      No important delays
Appraisal:                        No important delays
Effectiveness:                    No delays
Closing date:                     The closing date was extended once, from
from June 30, 1992 to June 30, 1993 because of delays
in implementing project in
first and second years



- 30 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 2. LOAN DATA (continued)
Project Schedule
Quarter  1I2 3i4E 'I2I3 4I  23423E
Year        1986       1987   1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal Mission                  a
Negotiations
Board ApprovaL
Signature Date
Date of Effectiveness
Completion Date                                                                          m>>>>> 4
CLosing Date                                                                              |    >>>>>> j
Year       1985     1986      198      1988      1989      1990     1991      1992
Quarter  1       I 2 34             14            1        4 X11 3            1
Scheduled: ..                  Slippage:  > > > >                 Actual:  X



- 31 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 3. CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Bank FY                 1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993
(i) Appraisal estimate    0.80    4.60    12.20    19.00    20.00    20.00
(ii) Actual             2.59      3.05     7.91     11.73     15.66    20.00
(iii) Actual as % of
estimate             323.8      66.3     64.8      61.7      78.3    100.00
Date of final
disbursement     November 22, 1993



- 32 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT  (La  2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 4. PROJECT MIPLEMENTATION
ApaslRevised      Total:      Percent    Percent of
Cocnponent    Subsector                     Indicator                 EAI  nAtm   Estimate    1989-1991 |of revised  appraisal
__________     ________     _________________________________        j    ________   ________    J    _____II_ estim ate  estim ate
Crops       Technology generation plots                not made   564          458         81.2        NA
Rew4rch            ~~~~~Technology ValidaLion plots            4,005       1,367       1,132        82.8       28.3
Rerch     ~Livestock   Validation modules                         84          163         99           60.7       117.9
Forestry    Validation modules                         446        67           51          76.1I       110.9
Crops       DemonstraLion plots                       | 6,393    | 2,577     |2,605         101.1      40.7
Technical assistance to producers ('000)   494        384.6       369.7        96.1       74.8
Hectares benefied by technical assistance    2,476    1,902.4     1,721.1      90.5       69.5
('000)                                                                                               I
Livestock   Demonstration modules                      393        617          577         93.5        146.8
Technical                  Technical assistance to producers ('000)   124        71.9         62.7         87.2       50.6
Aasi5tansc                  Livestock benefitted by technical assistance    2,256  1,187.7    1,198.8      100.9      53.1
('000)                                   1                                                           I
Forestry    Demonstration modules                      not made   51           37          72.5        NA
Technical assistance to producers ('000)   36         17.5        16.5         94.3       45.8
Hectares benefitted by technical assistance  1,733    299.8       201.9        67.3       11.7
_ _ _ _('000)                                                 I     _           _          _      _     _           _
Crops       1st level organizations                    2,274      2,532        2,450       96.8        107.7
Associated producers ('000)               325         205.8       196.1        95.3       60.3
2nd level organizations                   not made   173          184          106.4      NA
Associated producers ('000)               not made   168.4        173.7        103.1      NA
|| Women's groups (UAIMs)                   28          217         199          91.7       710.7
Livestock    Ist level organizations                   621        579          837          144.6      134.8
Organization               Associated producers ('000)                29         28.3         32.9         116.3      113.4
2nd level organizations                    not made  24           27           112.5      NA
Associated producecr ('000)               not made   18.1         14.1         77.9       NA
Forestry    Ist level organizations                    208        185          205          110.8      98.6
Associated producers ('000)               18          14          16.7         119.3      92.8
2nd level organizations                   not made   25           26           104        NA
______     ||_ Associated producers ('000)              not made   14.3         15.8        110.5      NA
Crops       Producers' courses                         10,673     2,679        1,868        69.7       17.5
Numberofproducerstrained                   149,000    51,478      46,438       90.2       31.2
Technicians' course| 3,483                            828         620          74.9       17.8
Numbernoftechnicianstrained               9,000       10,834      7,911        73         87.9
livestock    Producers' coursesa                       not made   987        | 895         90.7        NA
.T.ainin| Number of producers trained                              not made   16,602       10,773      64.9        NA
Trininmg     l           ||Technicians'courses                        not made   185          325          175.7      NA
|| Numbers of technicians trained           not made   2,436        1,627        66.8       NA
Forcstry    Producers' courses                         not made  201           140         69.7        NA
Number of producers trained               not made| 3,552         2,408        67.8       NA
Technicians' couress                       not made   84          32           38.1       NA
Numbers of technicians trained            not made   732          35S          48.9       NA
Source: SARH, Dirmccion General de Estudios del Sector Agropecusrio y Forestal.



- 33 -
MEXCO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 2859ME)
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
TABLE S. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(USS Millions)
I                                              ta' 0.'- 00i '0  tf f.i.-.'' ... 't'0,;,',C'PJiXbEiELiESi32:it ,- .FS, HE .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       . . . . .
_____________________   Pr~~~joct Costa  Coat,    Amwi'nt:      Amug*           Pznanc4
1. Civil works under Part A                2.6           n/a             2.60         2.05          100%
(Extension)
2. Civil works under Part C                 0.6           n/a             .20         0.2           100%
(Research)
3. Goods and equipment under Part A         4.6           n/a             4.10        3.3   100% of foreign
equipment under Patd
A expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
4. Goods and equipment under Part C         0.6           n/a             .60         0.75  100% of foreign
expenditurs and
80% of local
expenditures
5. Training, studies, and consulants'       8.2           n/a             7.40       10.7           100%
ervices
6. Recurrent costs under Parts A and      27.7            n/a             1.50        2.5   See Note A below
B (Institutional and Manpower
Development)
7. Recurrent costs under Par C            29.5           n/a              1.60        0.5   See Note A below
S. Unallocated                                           n/a             2.00         0 0
TOTAL           73.8           n/a            20.00        20.0
Note A: Ih_rnmil expmdiur to be fisnoed for Ec& lhbIe Dibrit for ac year of Projctm i mpba   by mach Diat&t - follb: Year 1. 100%;Yar 2, 75%;
Yeu 3. 50%; Year 4, 25%.



- 34 -
MEXCO
AGRICULTURAL MTNSION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPIE1ION REPORT
TABKE 6. PROJECT DWM4I'
A. PROJECT DMPACT ON RIGATED CROP YIIS
CAJEME, SONORA
gWEL
PROCATI                     PROCATI                     PROCATI
SAR Yield               1989                         1990                        1991
CROP          E                         _ _ __st_t_   __  90
Project       TARGET        ACTUAL        TARGET        ACTUAL        TARGET        ACTUAL
Wheat         4,700          4,800         4,680         4,900          5,420         5,000         4,350
Cotton        2,600          2,650         2,220         2,700          2,650         2,750         2,400
Soybean       2,100          2,150         2,004         2,200          2,100         2,250         2,220
Mizec         3,900          4,000         3,300         4,100          3,500         4,200         3,720
SOURCE: Final Report DDR 148, 1993.
B. PROJECT IMPACT ON RAINFED CROP YIELDS
HUAMANTLA, TLAXCALA
(4uHa)
PROCATI                     PROCATI                     PROCATI
SAR Yield               1989                        1990                        1991
CROP     ~~Estimate
CROP      ~~Before
Project       TARGET        ACTUAL        TARGET        ACTUAL        TARGET        ACTUAL
Wheat         2,000          2,100         2,500         2,200          2,900         2,300         3,000
Fab&          850            900           540            1,000         1,050         1,100         800
Beans         650*           850           600           S50            1,000         8500          850
Maize         2,500          2,600         2,160         2,700          3,050         2,800         2,300
SOURCE: Fial Report DDR 165, April 1993.
* Eaimate made by DDR since
no edimatd made at appraial.



- 35 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 6. PROJECT BENEFITS
C. PRODUCTION RESULTS
AGRICULTURAL SUBSECTOR
Crop            Area in Hectares ('000)   J % change      U               Average Yielde          % Change
Crop   1989  1990  1991    over 1989          9t 89 
19891                                                            1990     1991    over 1989
Maize              152       218      228        +50          Ton         2.0       2.8       2.6       +30
Wheat              74        119       114       +54         Ton          4.5       4.7       4.5      -0-
Cotton             22       40        53         +141        Ton          3.2       3.3       3.3       +3
Sorghum            42       42        37        -12          Ton          3.4       3.7       3.2      -6
Beans              19       30        40         +111        Ton          0.5       0.8       1.0       +100
Othier             102      98         124      +22
Total              410       546       596       +45
Source: PROCATI, Project Annual Report, 191
D. PRODUCTION RESULTS
LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
Number of Head ('000)      % change                       Average Yields          % change
1989     1990      1991    over 1989                   1989      1990     1991    over 1989
Beef cattle        193       177      92        -52          Kg.          207       247       277       +34
Dairy cattle       68       33        39        43          |A.           1,947    2,693    3,459       +78
Sheep              28        29       46         +64          Kg.         39        33        31       -21
Goats (Meat)       24        14       23        4             Kg.         35        24        29       -17
Goats (Milk)       8         11        19        +138         Lta.       5S         167       71        +22
Other              155       161      91        41
| Tot l             476       365     1310       -35
E. PRODUCTION RESULTS
FORESTRY SUBSECTOR
Specis      | Area in Hectares ('000)       % change       Unit            Average Yields          % change
1989     1990      1991    over 1989                   1989  |  1990      1991    over 1989
Pine               15        8        9         -40           Cu.Mts.    8        J23         22        +175
||Oak             | 1        4        |3        |+200       ||Cu Mts    | 30       |19       |17       | 43
Oyamel             0        2          1        -             CuMts.       0      |8        1 10 
Other              2         1        22        +1,000
Total              18        15       35         +94          Source: PROCATI Annual Report 1991.



- 36 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(LAmW 2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 6. PROJECT BENEFITS
F. COST-BENEFIT RATIOS FOR EXTENSION IMPACT ON
FOUR MAJOR CROPS, 1990 and 1991
Progrm            PROCATI            PROCATI          Non-PROCATI  | Non-PROCATI
Year               1990               1991       |       1990       I       1991
Crops
Maize              1.64               1.26               1.17               1.25
Beans              1.58               1.11               1.49               1.44
Wheat               1.45               1.36               1.88              1.72
Sorghum             2.21                1.47               1.75              1.75
SOURCE: CP, Evaluaci6n Final: Superficie, Producci6n y Rentabilidad.
G. TRAINING OF TECHNICIANS BY IICA
ACTIVrTY                            PLANNED                     ACTUAL
1989: Training in planning and budgeting       13 Scholarships (52 P/M)    19 Scholarships (73 P/M)
1990: Database training                       no initial target          8 technicians
Training in project  anagemnent                39 Scholarships           44 Scholarships
Comnputer training                             I course, 12 technicians  5 courses, 58 technicians
Course in basic eleenta of administration of   I course for 38           1 course for 32
agricultural production units                 technicians                technicians
Course in planning agricultural production units  1 course for 30        1 course for >30
technicians               technicians
Course in evaluation of projects               I course for 30           1 course for >30
techniciau               technicians
1991: Course in planning agricultural production    30 technicians       I course for > 30
units                                                                    technicians
In-service training in SARH selected areas     36 Scholarships           41 Scholarships
Data base managnent                            12 technicians            14 technicians
Technology transfer and rural communication    30 extensionists          30 technician
Workshops on programming of DDRs               4 workshops                > 4 workshops
1992:  -service training to strengthen UC     30 scholarships            28 Scholarships
SOURCE: ICA, Informe Fmal, March 31, 1993.



- 37 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Am1 28&WME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 7. STATUS OF LOAN CONDITIONS
Guarantee        SAR
Agreement      Refereece                                       Description of Condition                                                          Final Status
3.05 (a)       3.17          Carry out the feasibility tudies described under Part E.2 of the Project, under terms of reference  12 studies done by November 30, 1987, and 12 others by
satisfactory to the Bank, with repect to eight rural development districts in the Project Area by  November 30, 1983.
November 30, 1987, and with repect to ten additional rural development districts in the Project Aras
by September 30, 1983.
3.05 (b)       3.17          Discurr the results of such studies with the Bank.                                             Results discussed during upervisions
3.05 (c)       2.17          Propose, by December 31, 1987, about eight districts, acceptable to the Bank, for inclusion in the  Bank approved 11 of 12 districts on February 2, 1938.
Project as Eligible Districts, and by November 30, 1988, about ten additional districts, acceptable to  Approved 12 additional districts on January 20, 1989.
the Bank, for inclusion in the Project as Eligible District.
3.05 (d)       3.17          Carry out the Project in the Eligible Districts accepted by the Bank.                          Each 25 district developed amal work program and budget.
3.06           3.11          Tbe Guarntor shall design an Instittional and Manpower Development Program, acceptable to the  Program is an ongoing activity in each District.
Bank, for the Eligible Districts nd implement such Program in each Eligible District thereafter.
3.07 (a)       3.14          The Guarntor shall maintain, through completion of the Project, a Programming Unit within each  Prngramming Units are in place in each Eligible District.
Eligible District for purpoees of monitoring, evaluating and supervising the carrying out of the Project
in the relevant Eligible District.
3.07 (b)       3.14          Cause Chapingo (i.e. CP) to monitor and evaluate the appliation of technical packages and the impact   The Bank approved Chapingo's terms of reference and
of extension srvices sategies in the Eligible Districts,                                      contract with SARH, received Chapingo's report and
commeted on it.
3.07 (c)       3.26          Without limitation upon any of the reporting provisios et forth in Section 9.07 of the General  Progress reports received.
Conditiora and in this Agreement, cause the Programming Units and Chapingo to provide wemiannal
reports on the progresr of implmenting the Project and the technical packages in each Eligible District
to SARH nd the Bank.
3.08           3.34          The Guarantor shall: (a) test cod-sharing mechanisnu for purpos of providing appropriate options for  Government is transferring technical assidance to private
cost-recovery for extension ervices; and (b) initiate and complete, by the Closing Date of the Project,   ector. In the irrigated Northwest section of the Project Area,
a program to transfer about half of the cost of salaries of extension services staff located in the Eligibk   about 90 pemcent of technical assisAnce is paid by producer.
Districts in the irrigated northwest section of the Project Area to farmers' cooperatives and other
groups that receive extension ervices.
4.01           3.25          Fuancial Covenas.                                                                              Government has maintained separte records and accouns in
(a), (b), (c)                                                                                                               accordance with sound accounting practices, acb account
having been audited by independent and qualified auditorr
acceptable to the Bank.



- 38 -
MEXCO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 28S5ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE S. USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
TRS        Maging  Staff       Staff  Staff                                                   Staff
FY  Task  Diio        Divin   Type   Number L"a Name            Specialty       TS Month    Weeb
34   LENP LA2Aa    LA2Aa   H           AGR                                       U4/06          .9
LEGLA    LEaLA   H         XXX                                       84/06          .1
SUBTOTAL LENP    1.0
TOTAL U4        1.0
S5   LENP LA2AG    LA2AG   C           MSP                                       35106         2.3
H      AGR                                       85106         1.1
SUBTOTAL LENP    3.9
TOTAL 35        3.9
36   LENP LA2Aa    C           AP4967 HAGEiSTROM                                 36/06         3.0
AP6490 LAIRD                    36/06             2.2
H        05833   WLSON                                     36106         5.6
06616  TOBELEM                                   86/06         1.5
06937  RAFLOSIa                                  36/06          .1
SUBTOTAL LENP   12.3
TOTAL 86       12.3
87   LENA LA2Aa    C           AP4967 HAGERSTROM                                 87/06        10.4
AP6490   LAIRD                            87/06         3.0
A00107   CAVALCANTI                       87/06         5.0
H      03274    PRINS                            87/06         7.3
05333    WILSON                           87/06         3.1
06616    TOBELEM                          87/06         .4
SUBTOTAL LENA   34.7
LENN LAZAO    LA2AG   H          03274    P14NS                             87/06         2.5
05313    WILSON                           87/06         1.6
SUBTOTAL LENN    4.1
LENP LA2AO    LA2AG    C         AP4967   HAGERSTROM                        37/06         3.3
AP6490   LAIRD                            37/06         1.6
H      03274    PRINS                            87/06         1.7
05833    WILSON                           87/06         4.2
06616    TOBELEM                          87/06         2.2
SUBTOTAL LENP   13.5
SPN   LA2AG    LA2AG   H         05333    WILSON                            37/06         .1
SUBTOTAL SPN       .1
TOTAL 87       52.4



- 39 -
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 2859-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 8. USE OF STAFF RESOURCES (continued)
TRS         Managing   Staff    Staff   Staff                                                    Staff
FY   Task  Division    Division   Type   Number Last Name         Specialty      TRS Month      Weeka
S8   SPN   LA2AG      LATHR   H         06616   TOBELEM                            88/06          1.1
LA2AG   C        A05033  LAIRD                              88/06          2.0
H      07672   VON POGRELL                         88106         .1
12202   BULLER                             88/06         12.8
SUBTOTAL SPN    16.1
TOTAL 88        16.1
89   SPN   LA2AG      LATHR   H         06616   TOBELEM                            89/06         .2
C      12202   BULLER                              89106         4.4
H      07672   VON POGRELL                         89/06         .0
12202   BULLER                             89/06         2.7
20183   MC INTIRE                          89106         5.3
SUBTOTAL SPN    12.7
TOTAL 89        12.7
90   SPN   LA2AG      LATHR   H         06616   TOBELEM                            90/06          .1
LA2AG   H        07672   VON POGRELL                        90/06          .4
20183   MC INTIRE                          90/06         1.5
SUBTOTAL SPN      2.0
TOTAL 90        2.0
91   SPN   LA2AG      LA2AG   H         20183   MC INTIRE                          91/06         1.5
SUBTOTAL SPN    1.5
TOTAL 91        1.5
92   SPN   LA2AG      LA2AG   H         07672   VON POGRELL                        92/06         .3
20183   MC INTIRE                          92106         2.2
SUBTOTAL SPN       2.6
TOTAL 92        2.6
93   SPN   LA2AG      LA2AG   H         20183   MC INTIRE                          92/07         1.2
92108         .4
SUBTOTAL SPN       1.6
TOTAL 93        1.6
Type of Staff: H = Higher Level, C = Consultant, A = Aaaisant, L = Local Staff
K - Local Consultant, S = Special Position, F = FAO
1.   Goals revised by SARH in 1991 as a result of budgetary constraints in previous years and also due to
reduced implementation period.



