Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                           LOAN NUMBER 2859 ME
             (Agricultural Extension Project, PROCATI)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 31, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2859 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1987, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Guarantor  and  NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
(the Borrower), having been  satisfied  as  to the feasibility and
priority of  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2  to the Loan
Agreement, have requested the Bank  to  assist in the financing of
the Project; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations  of  the  Borrower in respect of such
loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General Conditions), with the  modifications  set forth in Section
1.01 of the Loan  Agreement,  constitute  an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to  and  Section  1.02  of  the  Loan  Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. Without limitation  or  restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally  guarantees,  as  primary  obligor  and not
merely as surety, the  due  and  punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges  on, the Loan, and the premium,
if  any,  on  the  prepayment   of  the  Loan,  and  the  punctual
performance of all the other  obligations  of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02. The Guarantor  shall enter into the contractual
arrangements with the Borrower referred  to in Section 3.01 of the
Loan Agreement and, unless  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, shall
not change or  fail  to  enforce  any  of  the  provisions of such
contractual arrangements.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement and to this  end,  shall  carry  out the Project through
SARH, all with due  diligence,  efficiency  and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial  and agricultural practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02.  The  Bank  and  the  Guarantor  agree that the
obligations set forth  in  Sections  9.04,  9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09  of  the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and  land  acquisition) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out by the Guarantor.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to  be  financed  from  the  proceeds of the Loan,
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section  3.04.  The  Guarantor  shall  cause  the  facilities
included in the Project to be operated, maintained and repaired in
accordance  with   sound   engineering,  agricultural,  technical,
financial and administrative practices.
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall:
     (a)  carry  out  the   feasibility  studies  described  under
Part E.2 of  the  Project,  under  terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, with respect  to eight rural development districts in
Page  3
the Project Area by  November  30,  1987  and  with respect to ten
additional rural  development  districts  in  the  Project Area by
September 30, 1988;
     (b)  discuss the results of such studies with the Bank;
     (c)  propose, by December  31,  1987,  about eight districts,
acceptable to the Bank, for  inclusion  in the Project as Eligible
Districts,  and  by  November   30,  1988,  about  ten  additional
districts, acceptable to the Bank, for inclusion in the Project as
Eligible Districts; and
     (d)  carry out the Project in the Eligible Districts accepted
by the Bank.
     Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall design an Institutional and
Manpower Development  Program,  acceptable  to  the  Bank, for the
Eligible Districts and  implement  such  Program  in each Eligible
District thereafter.
     Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall:
     (a)  maintain,  through   completion   of   the   Project,  a
Programming Unit within  each  Eligible  District  for purposes of
monitoring, evaluating and  supervising  the  carrying  out of the
Project in the relevant Eligible District;
     (b)  cause Chapingo to  monitor  and evaluate the application
of  technical  packages  and  the  impact  of  extension  services
strategies in the Eligible Districts; and
     (c)  without limitation upon any  of the reporting provisions
set forth in Section 9.07  of  the  General Conditions and in this
Agreement, cause the  Programming  Units  and  Chapingo to provide
semiannual reports on the progress of implementing the Project and
the technical packages in each  Eligible  District to SARH and the
Bank.
     Section 3.08.  The  Guarantor  shall:  (a)  test cost-sharing
mechanisms for purposes of providing appropriate options for cost-
recovery for extension services; and (b) initiate and complete, by
the Closing Date of the Project,  a program to transfer about half
of the cost of salaries of extension services staff located in the
Eligible Districts  in  the  irrigated  northwest  section  of the
Project  Area  to  farmers'  cooperatives  and  other  groups that
receive extension services.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Guarantor  shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate records  and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices, the operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  the Guarantor responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this  Section  for  each  fiscal  year  audited, in
               accordance   with   generally   accepted   auditing
               standards and  procedures  consistently applied, by
               independent and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year a  certified  copy  of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
Page  4
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said accounts and  the audit thereof and
               said records as the  Bank  shall  from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of  the   Loan   withdrawn   in   respect  of  such
               expenditures were used  for  the purposes for which
               they were provided.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01.  The  Director  General  de  Credito Publico of
the Secretaria de  Hacienda  y  Credito  Publico  is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Direccion General de Credito Publico
          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Palacio Nacional
          Edifico 10, P.B.
          06066 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
                                            Telex:
                                                1777313-SHDCME
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
Page  5
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                     By /s/ Ernesto Marcos Giacoman
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
