                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No.: 35049-LS




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                                     LESOTHO

          ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
                               (CREDIT 2857-LSO)



                                  January 25,2006




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluatiorz Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit =Lesotho Maloti (LSL)

                                                LSL 3.62
                                                LSL 4.30
                                                LSL 4.61
                                                LSL 5.55
                                                LSL 6.12
                                                LSL 6.94
                                                LSL 8.62
                                                LSL10.53
                                                LSL 7.57
                                                LSL 6.46

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AGOA             Africa Growth and OpportunityAct (USA)
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
DRR              Department of Rural Roads
DTT              Department of Traffic and Transport
EDF              European Development Fund
GOL              Government of Lesotho
IEG              Independent Evaluation Group
ICR              ImplementationCompletionReport
KiW              Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCU              Labor ConstructionUnit
LHWP             Lesotho Highlands Water Project
MOPWT            Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MOW              Ministry of Works
MTR              Mid-Term Review
NRA              National Road Authority
PMMS             Pavement and MaintenanceManagement System
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
RB               Roads Branch
RCU              Road ConstructionUnit
RMMS             Road MaintenanceManagement System
RRMP             Road Rehabilitation and MaintenanceProject
RSA              Republic of South Afi-ica
SADC             SouthernAfi-icaDevelopment Community
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report

Fiscal Year

Government:               April 1- March 31




Director-General, Evaluation                           : Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation, World Bank           : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation        : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           : Mr. Peter Freeman

   IEG Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report

       The IndependentEvaluation Group assesses the programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
expected results, and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough the
disseminationof lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, annually assesses about 25 percentof the
Bank's lending operations. In selecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are innovative,
large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which Executive
Directorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate important lessons.
The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluationstudies.

       A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare
PPARs, IEG staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
IEG studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System

       The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEG website:
http://worldbank.org/IEGleta-mainpage.htm1).

       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.

       lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.

       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.

       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


Contents

Principal Ratings       ................................................................................................................v

Key Staff Responsible           ........................................................................................................v

Preface  ..........................................................................................................................vii

Summary     ........................................................................................................................ix

1. Background         ..................................................................................................................1

2. The Project       ...................................................................................................................2

3. Results    ...........................................................................................................................6

4. Ratings     ..........................................................................................................................8

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet               ..............................................................................................15

Annex B. Lesotho: Extent of Road Network and Funding for Road Maintenance                                                          ...17




This report was prepared by Peter Freeman, who assessed the project in April, 2005. The report was edited
by William Hurlbut, and Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.


Principal Ratings

                                ICR*                     ICR Review*                        PPAR

Outcome                      Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory

Sustainability                  Likely                   Non-evaluable                  Non-evaluable
Institutional                   Modest                       Modest                        Modest
Development Impact

Bank Performance             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

Borrower                     Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance


* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of
the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible

                                                                             ,, -,,--
                                                                *"-%w  *-?- *

Project                                                        Division Chief/
                                                               Sector Director

 Appraisal                          Bernard Becq                Jeffrey Racki           Katherine Marshall


Preface


        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) for the Lesotho Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (Credit 2857-LSO). The IDA credit to the Government of the
Kingdom of Lesotho was approved by the Board of Directors on May 9, 1996, to the
value of US$40.0 million, but only became effective on January 14, 1997because of a
failure initially to meet key conditions of the credit; the staffing of the project unit was of
particular concern. This slow progress continued after implementation began and on
October 17, 2000, following a Mid Term Review (by which time only 20 percent of the
credit had been disbursed), US$14.0 million was canceled and the project scope was
reduced. At project closure on December 31,2003the undisbursed balance of the credit
was US$1.O million.

        The entire project including contributions fi-omco-financiers and the Government
of Lesotho (GOL) was originally US$129.0 million. This consisted at appraisal of
US$40.0 million from IDA, US$17.0 million from the European Development Fund, and
US$7.7 million from other bilateral donors, with the balance to be funded by GOL. The
GOL component also included a commitment to 100percent funding of routine road
maintenance over the life of the project. US$124.4 million was eventually expended by
project completion.

        The project was selected for assessment because of the need to understand more
hlly the difficulties of institutional reform in a low-income country experiencing
significant capacity constraints.

        IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the relevant Staff Appraisal
Report, Implementation Completion Report, legal agreements, project files and archives,
as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, and working papers. Discussions were also
held with Bank staff in both Washington DC and in Lesotho. An IEG field mission
visited Lesotho in April 2005, conducted site visits, and discussed both the project and
the effectiveness of Bank assistance with relevant officials and stakeholders. The mission
appreciates the courtesies and attention given by these interlocutors as well as the support
provided by the Bank's office in Maseru.

        Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the PPAR was sent to relevant
government officials and agencies for their comments but none were received.


Summary


         The Lesotho Road Rehabilitation Project (RRMP) was approved by the Bank in
1996 and completed in 2003, two years later than planned, mainly due to early delays in
meeting effectiveness conditions and slow start-up of capacity building and works
activities. Experience from four earlier Bank funded road projects in Lesotho had shown
that ongoing road maintenance activities were constrained by a lack of sustained
operational and institutional capacity in the implementing agencies. The RRMP was
therefore designed not only to restore sections of the improved road network which had
reverted to poor condition, but also to strengthen the planning, implementation and
management capacity of the responsible road sector agencies through policy and
institutional reforms. This project was intended to assist the restructuring of the Ministry
of Works and Public Transport (MOPWT) and to establish a sustainable road financing
mechanism. The objectives as stated at appraisal for the RMMP were:

         P To develop government capacity to maintain regularly the whole classified
            road network by the year 2000 and upgrade priority roads to improved
            serviceability standards;
         P To improve access to isolated areas and basic services in district centers by
            facilitating road traffic and lowering transport costs;
         P To develop further the emerging private local road construction and
            maintenance industry, using mainly labor-based methods; and
         P To strengthen the planning, implementation and management capacity of the
            road sector agencies through policy and institutional reforms and capacity
            building.

        The outcome of the project is rated moderately satisfactory. Although there was
progress with enhancing the condition of the overall network, improving access to several
remote communities, and the development of emerging contractors, the institutional
objectives were not fully attained. When at mid-term, three years after implementation
began, only 20 percent of the project funds had been disbursed, it was agreed that US$14
million of the credit should be cancelled and this in turn meant that the upgrading
program had to be cut back. There is evidence that the delays in implementing the
institutional reforms have started to impact negatively on the continued integrity of the
road network.

        Institutional development impact is rated modest. In addition to strengthening the
capacity of the road sector agencies, an action plan for policy reform was agreed upon
during preparation, but progress has been laborious. On the positive side two separate
rural road agencies were combined under the Department of Rural Roads and a Road
Fund was established, even though it took three years to become operational. Although
the Letter of Sector Policy stated that all routine and periodic maintenance needs for the
classified road network would be fully financed through the Road Fund, currently only
about 60 percent of the required funding is provided, which is clearly insufficient.

         Sustainability is rated non-evaluable, because of continued uncertainty with
regard to the substance and effectiveness of the reforms. A proposal for a semi-
autonomous roads agency was put to the Cabinet, but was rejected based on experience to
date with existing authorities in other sectors in Lesotho. A new, less far-reaching
proposal was subsequently drawn up, which envisages a Roads Directorate within
MOPWT. The proposal would place the reform in the context of the ongoing
decentralization effort and a substantial reduction in staff would be effected.

       While the current proposal is less ambitious, it clearly addresses some of the core
deficiencies of the current arrangements and will provide a platform for a further project,
which can provide support during the implementation of the new institutional
arrangements. The issue remains as to whether the degree of change will be sufficiently
meaningful to ensure future sustainability.

        Bank performance overall is rated satisfactory. During preparation, however, it
overestimated local capacity and commitment to manage the extensive and difficult
agenda in the project and Bank performance at that stage was therefore unsatisfactory.
The project was successfully restructured, however, and supervision was good. Most
institutional objectives were eventually accomplished and the follow up on outstanding
issues has been very good.

        Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, but with important caveats. Although
preparation of the RRMP was constrained due to slow progress by the Government of
Lesotho in developing an overall transport policy framework, enough progress was made
to establish a basis for the project. After approval, however, there were serious delays in
meeting the conditions of effectiveness and the continued lack of commitment and
progress in the project's early stages meant that the project was rated unsatisfactory at
mid-term. The cancellation of US$ 14million motivated the Borrower to improve its
support and the appointment of a full-time project coordinator made a significant
difference to the rate of progress. Some important milestones such as the creation of the
Road Fund, the privatization of the Plant and Vehicle Pool Services and acceptance of the
move towards contract maintenance were achieved.

    The following lessons, some of which are mentioned in the ICR, are presented below:

    P Project design in countries with low capacity needs to be undertaken with special
        care. In particularly, the time needed for the reform process to achieve results
         should receive specific attention and it may be prudent to seek progress in small
        incremental steps, instead of one large over-arching project;

    >   Privatized road maintenance can yield significant benefits for the road sector in
        low-income developing countries. This project demonstrates the difficulties and
        the steps necessary to implement such a transition in these environments;

    P Effective Road Funds need adequate revenue, independence and an effective
        governance structure. Because income from user fees is often insufficient to cover
        maintenance needs, an additional government contribution may be necessary;

P When major institutional ref01111 is planned, it is important to ensure full
  government commitment at the highest level. This is not likely to be forthcoming
 until the decision makers fully understand the implications of change and this may
 take some time. A strong champion of the reform initiative can speed up this
 process;




                                                        Vinod Thomas
                                                        Director-General
                                                        Evaluation


1.       Background

1.1      The Kingdom of Lesotho is a small, landlocked country completely surrounded
by and economically dependent on South Africa (RSA). It has no substantial natural
resources other than water and nearly half of its two million people live below the
poverty line. The GNP per capita is only US$736 a year1and over 85 percent of the
population lives in rural areas. Unemployment is about 35 percent, while the prevalence
of HIVIAIDS is estimated to be at least 31 percent.

1.2      Lesotho's economy is based on limited agricultural production and some light
manufacturing industry, mainly textiles and clothing. This emerging textile industry
currently faces intense competition from low-cost Asian manufacturers, but has benefited
from exports to the USA encouraged by the A h c a Growth and Opportunity Act
(AGOA)'. The economy is supplemented by a significant amount of remittances from
Basutho miners working in the RSA, but this source of income is declining3.More
recently, income has been derived from royalties and other benefits from supplying water
to the RSA through the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP)4.

1.3      This rugged and mountainous country depends very largely on privately-operated
road transport. There is a two kilometer rail link from Maseru, the capital, into the South
African rail network, but most freight enters or leaves the country by road. The difficult
topography of the country has strongly influenced the evolution of the road network and
most of the improved roads are concentrated in the western lowlands and adjacent
foothills, except to give access to the LHWP. Accessibility to the highland areas is
limited so that many roads can only be traveled easily in the dry season, and sometimes
access is only possible with four-wheel drive vehicles.

1.4      Experience from four earlier Bank funded road projects in Lesotho showed that
maintenance was hampered by the lack of sustained operational and institutional capacity
in the implementing agencies. This led to an Infrastructure Engineering Project which
focused on capacity building5.Progress did result in the allocation of funds in line with
economic criteria and in starting to develop a local labor-based road construction
industry. Some headway was also made in developing the administrative and financial
capacity of the implementing staff, but unfortunately the impact of this was limited by the
continual loss of trained engineers to the private sector or to neighboring countries. In
addition it was clear that the road authorities were too fragmented and, in comparison to
international norms, grossly overstaffed. This indicated that a serious re-think of the
institutional arrangements was necessary.



1. World Bank Country Brief (Lesotho), estimate for 2004.

2. Lesotho, Business Africa Report, Economist Intelligence Unit, March, 2004.

3. Lesotho Poverty Assessment, Human Resources Division, Report 13171-LSO, Southern African
Department, Africa Regional Office, World Bank, Aug 18, 1995

4. Hassan, FMA Lesotho - Development in a Challenging Environment. Joint World Bank - African
Development Bank Evaluation, OED, Washington DC, 2002.

5. Credit 2400-LSO, US$12.3 million, 1992;closed 1996.

1.5     The Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP) was designed to
restore sections of the improved road network in poor condition, but at the same time to
strengthen the planning, implementation and management capacity of the road sector
agencies through policy and institutional reforms as well as through capacity building.
The Government of Lesotho (GOL) was to be assisted in restructuring the Ministry of
Works (MOW) and in establishing sustainable road financing mechanisms.

2.      The Project

Project Objectives

2.1     The project had four objectives which were not revised during implementation.
These objectives emerged from recommendations of both the National Transport Study,
undertaken in 1994 funded by several donors, and the Infrastructure Engineering Project
funded through an IDA credit. The objectives as stated at appraisal for the RMMP were:

   i.   To develop government capacity to maintain regularly the whole classified road
        network by the year 2000 and upgrade priority roads to improved serviceability
        standards;
  ..
  11.   To improve access to isolated areas and basic services in district centers by
        facilitating road traffic and lowering transport costs;
 ...
 111.   To develop further the emerging private local road construction and maintenance
        industry, using mainly labor-based methods; and
 iv.    To strengthen the planning, implementation and management capacity of the road
        sector agencies through policy and institutional reforms and capacity building.

2.2     The first and fourth objectives were aimed at reforming policy as well as
strengthening planning and management through regrouping all road agencies under the
MOW (later to become the Ministry of Public Works and Transport). Objective two was
intended to improve access to isolated areas, while objective three was principally
directed at the emerging local road construction and maintenance industry through local
capacity building, using primarily labor-based methods and in the process generatingjob
opportunities to assist with poverty alleviation.

Project Components

2.3     The components can be divided into three groupings, namely, civil works; design
and supervision; and institutional reform and capacity building. This information,
together with their anticipated costs at appraisal and actual costs on completion, is
detailed in Table 1.

i) Civil WorksProgram:


a) Gradual implementation of routine maintenance on the whole classified network and
periodic maintenance on all sections in good or poor condition;

b) Rehabilitation of gravel road sections in poor condition that have deteriorated past the
point of maintenance to as-built, maintainable standards and rehabilitation of priority
trunk road sections;
c) Upgrading key selected rural earth and gravel roads to all-weather standards and four
important trunk road sections from gravel to paved standards.

ii) Design, engineering and supervision:

Feasibility studies, detailed design, bridge assessment, supervision and studies for urban
roads;

iii) Sector institutional reform and capacity building:

a) Support for implementing institutional reform to assist the GOL in implementing key
regulatory and policy reforms, including restructuring the MOW and establishing
sustainable road financing mechanisms to enable full government funding of maintenance
and rehabilitation;

b) Establishment and development of capacity of main and rural road agencies; logistical
support to the Roads Branch (RB) and Labor Construction Unit (LCU).

Table 1: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, IDA Components and Costs
(US$ millions)

Components                                      Appraisal %       Closure         YO
Civil Works                                       25.6    (64.0)    16.0     (69.9)
Design, engineering and supervision                4.6    (11.5)     2.3     (10.0)
Sector reform and capacity building                9.8    (24.5)     4.6      (20.1)
Total                                              40.0 (100.0)      22.9    (100.0)
Source: ICR and SAR.

2.4      The entire project included parallel financing, counterpart funding by the
Government of Lesotho plus a commitment from GOL to fund 100percent of expected
routine maintenance costs over the life of the project, (see Table 2). The total project cost
originally amounted to US$129.0 million and comprised US$40.0 million from IDA,
US$17.0 million from the European Development Fund (EDF), US$6.0 million from
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and US$1.7 million from the Government of
Ireland, with the balance to be funded by GOL. EDF focused on civil works, but also
funded road safety and axle load control needs. The other donors concentrated on the
rural access roads. In due course a total of US$124.4 million was expended under the
project.

Table 2: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, Financial Contributions, All
Donors (US$ millions).

Donor                       Original            After MTR                       Actual
IDA                           40.0                    22.9                       22.9
EDF                           17.0                    35.1                        34.0
KfW                            6.0                      2.3                       2.3
Irish Aid                      1.7                      2.0                       2.0
GOL (Counterpart) #           16.3                      7.7                        7.7
GOL (Maintenance)"            48.0                    48.0                        54.0
Total                        129.0                   118.0                       122.9
Source:Borrower Implementation Completion~ e ~ o r t ~ .
# GOL counterpart fundingcontribution
* GOL commitmentto 100 percent funding of routine maintenance over project life.

Implementation Issues

Institutio~zalReform and Capacity Building Component

2.5       At appraisal the MOW comprised two road organizations, the Roads Branch (RB)
and the Department of Rural Roads (DRR). These organizations had similar structures
and support services leading to a duplication of resources in many areas such as regional
offices, depots, stores, planning, accounting and the use of plant and equipment. There
were also inconsistencies in the systems that each organization used. At government level
no less than five ministries were involved in one or other dimensions of road transport in
Lesotho. This was the reason for a study to assess "the feasibility of creating a single
commercially orientated, autonomous road management institution which could       -

possibly take the form of a road authorityv7.

2.6       The institutional reform and capacity building component8was summarized as
follows:
   i.     Improving cost recovery for maintenance;
  ii.     Restructuring the MOW;
 ...
 111.     Restructuringlprivatizing the Public Plant and Vehicle Services;
 iv.      Strengthening the road construction industry through contracting out and training;
  v.      Assessing the feasibility of an independent Road Authority;
 vi.      Defining environmental standards for road works;
vii.      Addressing road transport issues ( such as road safety, axle-load limit
          enforcement); and
 ...
~111. Having stakeholder participation in the Road Fund Board (which governs the
         Road Fund).



6. Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, Final Report for IDA-funded Component, Ministry of
Public Works and Transport Planning Unit, Maseru, Government of Lesotho, March 2004.
                             -


7. National Road Authority Set-up Study, SMEC International Pty Ltd, Ministry of Public Works and
Transport, Government of Lesotho, Sept 2002.

8. Letter of Sector Policy submitted to IDA before Board presentation.

2.7      Capacity building included strengthening the MOW implementation capacity
including RB and LCU regional offices (financial, management contract supervision and
maintenance systems); staff development to retain more local personnel and reduce
dependence on expatriate staff; and a training program for middle management.

Quality at Entry

2.8      Although the components fitted well with the objectives and were consistent with
similar projects elsewhere in Africa, the local capacity to implement the policy reform
agenda was seriously over-estimated. The slow progress experienced with the earlier
Infrastructure Engineering Project should have provided sufficient warnings that special
support arrangements would be needed to drive through the extensive reform program
included in the RRMP. There was an under-estimation of the time necessary to change
government policies, especially when several different ministries had to agree on the way
forward. Consequently, it took more than eight months to comply with the conditions of
effectiveness and at entry the capacity bottleneck was inadequately resolved. Ultimately
this led to project restructuring at the Mid-Term Review (MTR). Quality at entry was
thus unsatisfactory.

Restructuring at Mid-term Review

2.9     The project had already been flagged as unsatisfactory prior to the MTR which
was undertaken in July, 2000. After more than three years of effectiveness, only US$7.0
million of the credit had been disbursed; this was less than 20 percent of the amount
approved by the Board. Also, during this period, the GOL had been distracted by a
number of serious civil disturbances. The MTR rated the project as unsatisfactory on
development objectives, implementation progress and project management. A revised
work program was subsequently agreed with GOL and the IDA credit was formally
reduced on October 17, 2000 by US$14.0 million. Most of the reduction was for road
upgrading, which was in any case seriously behind schedule. Four actions were agreed to
facilitate a recovery process. These were:

  ..i.  A project coordination advisor would be hired;
  11.   A consultant would be engaged to carry out an institutional study, resolve delays

 ...    in institutional reform and help design a new roads agency structure;
 111.   A procurement consultant would be recruited;
 iv.    The RB would cease in-house direct construction and road improvement; and
  v.    A consultant would be appointed to carry out a study of the road construction
        industry.

Size of network

2.10    The road networkgin Lesotho has 1,217km of paved roads 3,758km of gravel
roads and 2,462 km of earth roads, but much of the latter are in a very poor condition and
cannot be regularly maintained either by DRR or local government. Typically such roads


9. Excluding Lesotho Highlands Development Authority.

are for basic access to dwellings and many are informal tracks with no status. The entire
network is about 7,500 km in extent (see Annex B, Table Bl). Present funding targets are
germane to the classified or formal network. Given the current state of the Lesotho
economy sufficient funding to upgrade and keep in good condition the entire network is
at this stage a distant prospect.


3.       Results

Objective 1: To develop government capacity to maintain regularly the whole classzfied
road network by the year 2000 and upgrade priority roads to improved serviceability
standards. Substantially achieved. (IEG weighting 30percent)

3.1      The civil works program was eventually substantially implemented. Routine
maintenance, using GOL funds, was progressively undertaken over a large portion of the
classified road network, exceeding the original target by 26 percent. This was possible
because the project took two years longer than anticipated to complete. However, because
of these same delays some gravel road sections deteriorated past the point of recovery for
periodic maintenance and had to be rehabilitated. Under the DRR, 392 krn of gravel roads
were rehabilitated by small-scale works contracts. Government supervision and local
private contracting capacity was significantly strengthened. A further goal was to have
sufficient funds available in the Road Fund to cover routine and periodic maintenance by
2000. While the full target was not met, by project closure in 2003, 69 percent coverage
had been achieved, which compared favorably with many other African countrieslO.
Since, however, this coverage figure has fallen to 63 percent (by April 2005), caused by
the hiatus in the finalization of institutional reforms. The DRR training center at
Teyateyaneng, on the other hand, was successfully upgraded and is being used to train
small-scale contractors and consultants in labor-based work; the facility includes an
existing materials testing laboratory.

3.2      Upgrading of some roads using IDA funds was dropped after the MTR, but some
of these roads were subsequently improved using EDF funds. Certain priority roads were
successfully upgraded either from earth to gravel standard or gravel to paved standard.
Table 3 below shows the original targets and the achievements.

Table 3: Progress against Targets (km) for Roads and Maintenance under the
RRMP
Item Description                Target Achieved                                    Comments
Routine Maintenance                 4,040      5,098        Achieved after extension of time
Periodic Maintenance                  499        315        Some roads required rehabilitation#
Rehab of proclaimed roads 200                     140        Some deferred due to cost
Upgrade DRR rural roads               390        404        More roads needed rehabilitation#
Upgrade RB roads                        90          0       Dropped at MTR. Some funded by EDF.
#Some rural roads deteriorated to the point where rehabilitation became necessary.
Source:ICR




10.For example, according to a Bank internal review of road funds, Uganda (80%) and Ethiopia (75%)
have better coverage, but Ghana (50%), Malawi (40%), Tanzania (30%) and Zambia (23%) are worse.

3.3      Looking at the location of the roads upgraded and rehabilitated there is a small
swing towards focusing more attention on roads in the highland areas, as opposed to the
western lowlands as proposed in the GOL Letter of Road Sector Policy. However, some
highland roads in the program, such as the Oxbow-Mokhotlong road had to be largely
deferred due to the reduction of the credit amount available.

Objective 2: To improve access to isolated areas and basic services in district centers by
facilitating road traffic and lowering transport costs. Highly achieved. (IEG weighting
20percent)

3.4      All the rural access roads planned in the project (414 krn) were rehabilitated and a
study was commissioned by DRR to assess the impact of these roads. The mral residents
considered improved access to be of huge value and this was confirmed by subsequent
discussions by the IEG mission. Employment during construction was also important and
most participants were able to work on these roads for an average of three months.
Because the supply of labor far outstripped demand, the jobs had to be rotated to spread
the benefits as far as possible. Although the baseline data were sketchy it is clear that the
upgraded roads led to a range of small businesses being established and the affected
communities also mentioned the improved access to economic and social services.

3.5      These positive impacts are consonant with both the Lesotho Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the Lesotho Vision 2020 Plan. Both documents confirm that
such benefits are important in the fight against poverty, but propose a more integrated
approach to poverty alleviation in these isolated communities. A more rigorous pilot
project has also been concluded in the Senqu valley in which village mobility maps have
been created1l.

Objective 3: To developfurther the emevgingprivate local road construction and
maintenance industry, using mainly labor-based methods. Highly achieved. (IEG
weighting 20percent)

3.6      Training of small scale labor-based works contractors was very successful
resulting in the training of 65 contractors, of which the IEG mission established that 50
had continued to supply services to MOPWT. Consultants have also become familiar
with the design and supervision of small scale, labor-based contracts and customized
software has been produced to design for quantities on an appropriately small scale.
Construction supervision consultants also re-aligned and adjusted designs commensurate
with the nature of labor-based works. The system for consultant and contractor training
has been institutionalized by DRR and the IEG mission ascertained that this is highly
regarded regionally, with some persons from neighboring countries even visiting to
receive training.

3.7      The use of force account (departmental) labor for routine and periodic
maintenance has also been virtually phased out by DRR. Trial contracts for upgrading


11. Ground-Truthing: Mapping Mobility and Access in Rural Lesotho. Lesotho MOPWT and World Bank,
April, 2005.

works have also been undertaken. This has been a major shift in the philosophy as to how
such roads should be managed. The RB meanwhile has encouraged medium-sized
contractors to carry out periodic maintenance on main roads and this activity is now fully
contracted out. Some of these contractors have combined forces to form a unit capable of
winning international tenders.

Objective 4: To strengthen theplanning, implementation and management capacity of the
road sector agencies throughpolicy and institutional reforms and capacity building.
Modestly achieved. (IEG weighting 30percent).

3.8     Incremental progress with the strengthening of the capacity of the road sector
agencies has been and continues to be made, but the speed with which each milestone has
been accomplished has been very slow. Progress was retarded by the illness and
subsequent death of the incumbent minister, while the issue of how proposed reforms
would impact on plans to accommodate local government structures was also a delaying
factor, now satisfactorily resolved. Positive initiatives have been the amalgamation of the
LCU and the civil works section under the DRR, the privatization of the Plant and
Vehicle Pool Services, the setting up of a Road Fund (with a board on which five of the
nine members are fiom the private sector), and the establishment of a revenue stream
from fuel sales and other sources into the fund. However, the institutional arrangements
regarding the fund require further development and do not fully meet the requirements of
GOL's Letter of Road Sector Policy.

3.9     Limited staff training has been carried out and an institutional reform study was
completed. Recommendations made regarding institutional reform including the
establishment of a new organizational structure were only approved on September 20,
2005 and have yet to be implemented. Because until recently there was no clarity on the
nature of the future road entity to be established, it was too soon to undertake the
intended manpower development plan. A major difficulty remains the fact that the
numbers of personnel involved in the road sector are much larger than required by
international norms, pending further developments in the reform process.

4.      Ratings

Outcome

4.1     Taking into account the achievement of the four objectives, two highly achieved,
one substantially achieved and one modestly achieved, the rating for outcome is
moderately satisfactory. This takes into account the higher importance of objectives 1
and 4 which had maintenance management capacity and institutional reform goals. Other
factors are that US$14 million had to be cancelled fiom the project at mid-term (which
meant that the upgrading program had to be cut back) and the very slow progress
throughout the project on the institutional reform, which has started to impact negatively
on the integrity of the road network.

Relevance

4.2      The relevance of the project objectives is high. Infrastructure, and especially
access roads, are seen in the PRSP and the CAS as a key component in the poverty
alleviation strategy. The need to create small contractors and create employment through
labor-based road maintenance and construction are also important. Most important,
however, is the strategy to address capacity constraints in the public sector and reduce
inefficiencies in planning and resource allocation. The removal of these constraints is a
critical part of the project.

Efficacy

4.3     The efficacy of the project is rated modest. With regard to the physical targets,
most were achieved (see Table 3). The maintenance targets were exceeded and so were
the rehabilitation targets, although the latter were exceeded due, ironically, to the
inordinate delay before some roads could receive periodic maintenance, so that
rehabilitation then became necessary. Some road sections scheduled for upgrading
(especially the more expensive ones in mountainous areas) had to be deferred after the
MTR deliberations, and the cancellation of part of the credit, although some were
eventually reinstated, but implemented using EDF funds. The length of rural access roads
to be funded under the project was exceeded, and a study by DRR confirmed that the
communities affected greatly valued the improved access, the temporary employment
opportunities provided by the labor-based road construction, as well as the opening up of
several small businesses.

4.4      In addition, 65 small local contractors received training and local consultants
started to adapt designs and supervision to accommodate emerging contractors. This was
supported by the expansion of a training center for road contractors and consultants.
Engineering services were undertaken and equipment was also purchased under the credit
for laboratory use and was observed by the IEG mission to be in working order.
Meanwhile the use of forced account labor was drastically reduced in favor of private
sector contractors. Management capacity was extended through the privatization of the
Plant and Vehicle Pool Services, the establishment of a Road Fund, and the establishment
of a revenue stream from fuel sales and other sources into the fund. However, the
institutional arrangements regarding the fund and the establishment of a new road
organizational structure clearly required further advancement. Without an improvement
over the status quo the existing institutional capacity will be insufficient to ensure that the
road network will maintain its integrity in the future.

Efficiency

4.5     Project efficiency is rated substantial. The ERR calculated in the SAR for the
rehabilitation of 10road sections varies from 26 to 199percent, but must be treated with
caution since this was based on estimated traffic, as actual values were not available at
that time. The ICR is more credible; it uses actual traffic count information, where
possible, and gives ex post figures ranging from 10to 73 percent. Traffic count data for a
few of these road links were obtained by the IEG mission for 2005, and show that the
A10 (Kingsway) had substantially higher traffic, while the A6 (Moshoeshoe) and the A2

(Airport) roads had experienced a slight decline. On the whole, however, the backlog in
rehabilitation is such that a high return would in any case be realized from all the priority
roads. The rural access roads were not subjected to economic evaluation and were
appropriately justified using socio-economic criteria.

4.6     With regard to outcome indicators, the funding flows into the Road Fund were
higher than expected, although still insufficient to cover more than two thirds of
identified needs in the classified network. The condition status of classified roads in good
condition in 1995 was 84 percent of paved roads, but only 8 percent of gravel roads12.At
appraisal a target was set for 85 percent of paved roads and 70 percent of gravel roads to
be in good and fair condition. By project closure in 2003 the figures achieved were
somewhat lower at 80 percent and 60 percent respectively, but this was still a good step
forward. In all probability these percentages will have declined in the meantime due to
the drying up of international financial support influenced by the perceived
procrastination regarding the implementation of institutional reforms. A new road
condition survey has been planned, but to date no new information has been made
available.



Institutional development impact

4.7     The institutional development impact is rated modest. In addition to
strengthening the capacity of the road sector agencies, an action plan for policy reform
was agreed upon during preparation, but progress has been laborious. In the meantime the
general condition of the road network has been declining and there is insufficient work
for the emerging contractors that have been trained. On the positive side a Road Fund has
been established13,but it took three years before becoming operational. Although the
Letter of Sector Policy stated that all routine and periodic maintenance would be financed
through the Road Fund, currently only about 60 percent of the required funding
(including funds from the government budget) is provided.

4.8     The Road Fund Board has functioned erratically and members were appointed for
short terms. At the time of the IEG mission the Board was effectively dormant because
the Ministry of Finance had not renewed the members' appointments. This matter has,
however, now been resolved and the Board has been appointed for a further term.
Staffing and auditing have been constant problems for the Road Fund14.There has been
capacity building in MOPWT and there has been a shift away from force account to the
use of contractors. RB made a study of the construction industry, which made
recommendations for training contractors and setting up a contractors' council, but this
council has yet to be established. The Road Safety Section of the Department of
Transport and Traffic has, however, been strengthened using the co-financing support
from the EU. It now has its own budget and a Road Safety Act is now in place.


12. MOW Planning Management and Maintenance Database, 1995.

13.Road Fund Act, 1995.

14. Road Fund Report, Ministry of Finance, 2001l2002 and 200212003, Kingdom of Lesotho.

4.9     Nevertheless, the major issue remains the feasibility of a suitable organizational
structure which will enable Lesotho to perform at a higher level in the roads sub-sector. A
study to investigate organizational options was submitted in 2002'' with the objective of
finding a model which would increase accountability, transparency and service
efficiency. In May, 2005 the MOPWT prepared a report on the recommended
institutional reform for the roads sub-sector and recommended an autonomous or semi-
autonomous road agency that would be run by a Board and a Chief Executive Officer16.
Subsequent developments are described in the next section.

Sustainability

4.10    Sustainability is rated non-evaluable because of the continuing volatility
surrounding the outcome of the reform process. A crucialjustification for this project was
to assist the GOL to develop capacity to regularly maintain Lesotho's classified road
network. The strengthening was to be carried out through both policy and institutional
reforms and capacity building. This followed experiences in the previous four Bank-
supported projects in the road sector in which the capacity shortcomings had persisted,
with only modest improvements being achieved. The retention of qualified staff in the
road sector, especially engineers, has continued to be a grave problem and this will
persist as long as there are more lucrative work opportunities in neighboring states. The
need for drastic institutional reform has been on the table for many years, but appears not
to have been pursued with the necessary vigor or urgency. In fact at the time of the IEG
mission sustainability appeared unlikely, but recent developments have been much more
positive.

4.11    These constructive developments began from about May 2005, when a workshop
was held to discuss the way forward with representatives fi-om the Ministries of Public
Works and Transport, Local Government, Public Service, and Finance and Development
Planning. A proposal for a semi-autonomous roads agency was subsequently put to an
informal meeting of the Cabinet, where it was discussed and further deliberations took
place afterwards with some affected Ministers who could not be present at the Cabinet
discussion. The debate mainly revolved around:

    9 Therole of and funding for the Road Fund;

        The right sizing of the personnel complement needed for the construction and
        maintenance of roads; and

    9 The employment andretention ofhighly qualified staff.

4.12    While accepting the need for reform, the Ministers were unenthusiastic about the
idea of moving to establish a new authority, based on their experience to date with the
operation of existing authorities in other sectors in Lesotho. A new, less far-reaching
proposal was thus subsequently drawn up which now envisages a Roads Directorate


15.National Road Authority Set-up study, Final Report 2002, SMEC International Pty Ltd, MOPWT,
Lesotho.

16.Thiswas in accordance with the SADC Protocol on Transport, Communications and Meteorology.

within MOPWT. The Directorate would be empowered by legislation and would
undertake functions that would ensure a comprehensive and improved scope of the
management of the sector. The proposal would place the reform in the context of the
ongoing decentralization effort, where tertiary and feeder roads would be under the
responsibility of local authorities, while the primary and secondary roads would be under
the responsibility of the Directorate.''

4.13       The cost of periodic and routine maintenance for the classified road network is
estimated at approximately US$ 22 million annually (including administrative costs).
Currently, funds (both from existing Road Fund and Government budget) for periodic
and routine maintenance represent only 60 percent of these needs. The plan which was
approved by Cabinet on September 20,2005 states that the Government will maintain its
current level of contribution from consolidated funds, and that border post toll charges,
vehicle license fees and the fuel levy will all be increased. While the current proposal is
less ambitious, it clearly addresses some of the core deficiencies of the current
arrangements and the prospects for real change appear slightly more optimistic now than
at any time previously. There is also an opportunity for the Bank to make funding
available for assisting the implementation of institutional reform as part of a proposed
credit for an integrated transport project, currently under appraisal. The issue remains as
to whether the degree of change will be sufficiently meaningful to ensure future
sustainability and the details must still be studied by the Bank in terms of the proposed
"Roadmap" which has been drawn up.

Bank performance

4.14       Bank performance overall is rated satisfactory, but this is a marginal call. During
preparation the Bank underestimated local capacity and commitment to manage the
extensive and difficult agenda for the project and Bank performance was not satisfactory,
because the result was the partial restructuring and cancellation of the project following
the MTR. After this pivotal event, the performance improved considerably. The project


17. The Directorate would be headed by a CEO who would be answerable to the Minister for the sector and assisted by
five Directors. The CEO would be appointed by the Minister for the sector, while the five Directors would be selected
"on the basis of merit through transparent competitive selection". The present staffing level of the two current
departments within MOPWT (RB and DRR) responsible for roads is now 1,309 against 1,867established positions. It
is projected that within five years of its establishment, the Roads Directorate would be staffed with about 140positions
(professionals, support staff and office assistants). No explicit redundancies would be made, but it is proposed that the
staff rationalization would be achieved by the following means:

      P    Redeploy 355 officers to the Ministry of Local Government;

      P    Redeploy 140 redundant officers within the Ministry and to other Government Ministries;

      P    Reduce by natural attrition and encourage personnel to join the private sector, involving 678 staff members as
           follows:


                     490 laborers, 104 supervisors, 84 trained technicians;


                     Some of these officers will be encouraged to resign and form construction companies -these will
                     be trained as contractors and consultants for smalljobs.

was successfully restructured and supervision was satisfactory. A Quality of Supervision
of Risky Projects Assessment was carried out by QAG on two occasions and the project
was rated as satisfactory except for "realism of project performance", which was rated
marginal. Several, though not all, institutional goals were eventually accomplished. The
addition of a computerized project management system at project inception to support the
monitoring of the huge number of steps in the complex reform process might have
assisted in speeding-up the implementation of the institutional reform component. After
project closure intensive dialogue has continued to provide the basis for a further project
in which the institutional reforms can be consolidated. Contact has also been maintained
throughout with other international development organizations operating in Lesotho.
Finally, the Bank should be commended for its flexibility with regard to the reform
process. Rather than insist on a particular organizational model, the Bank's position has
been that the type of institutional entity had to be Lesotho's decision. However, whatever
model is chosen should improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the management of
the road sub-sector. It is yet to be seen whether the institutional design proposed will be a
sufficient response to a chronic problem.

Borrower performance

4.15    Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, but with important caveats. Although
preparation of the RRMP was constrained due to slow progress by the GOL in
developing an overall transport policy framework, enough progress was made to establish
a basis for the project. After approval, however, there were serious delays in meeting the
conditions of effectiveness and the continued lack of commitment and progress in the
project's early stages meant that the project was rated unsatisfactory at MTR. The
cancellation of US$ 14million motivated the borrower to improve its support and the
appointment of a full-time project coordinator made a significant difference to the rate of
progress. Some important milestones such as the union of the LCU and civil works
section under the DRR, the creation of a Road Fund, the privatization of the Plant and
Vehicle Pool Services and the move towards contract maintenance were achieved to the
credit of GOL. Overall, taking into account the severe capacity problems that GOL faced,
the Borrower's performance was satisfactory, albeit marginally so.

5.       Lessons Learned

The following lessons, some of which are mentioned in the ICR, are presented from this
project:

    P- Project design in countries with low capacity needs to be undertaken with special
        care. In particularly, the time needed for the reform process to achieve results
        should receive specific attention and it may be prudent to seek progress in small
        incremental steps, instead of one large over-arching project;

    >   Privatized road maintenance can yield significant benefits for the road sector in
        low-income developing countries. This project demonstrates the difficulties and
        the steps necessary to implement such a transition in these environments;

>Effective Road Funds need adequate revenue, independence and an effective
 governance structure. Because income from user fees is often insufficient to cover
 maintenance needs, an additional government contribution may be necessary;

>When major institutional reform is planned, it is important to ensure full
 government commitment at the highest level. This is not likely to be forthcoming
 until the decision makers fully understand the implications of change and this may
 take some time. A strong champion of the reform initiative can speed up this
 process;

                                                                                                                                                                     Annex A


  Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

  LESOTHOROADREHABILITATION MAINTENANCEPROJECT(CREDIT                                                  AND
  2857-LSO)

 --
  Kex Project Data (amounts in US$million)                                                ----                    -                            --- -
                      ,"  *#     *-*-                                        *"*'."ma                     -a *       *---          -a*-s-a*              Mm-*m-sm    AwAm&w&*% mu  *
                                                                                                       Appraisal                   Actual or                 Actual as % of
                                                                                                       estimate                current estimate           appraisal estimate

  Total project costs                                                                                   129.0                         124.6                      96.6%

  Loan amount

  Cofinancing

  Cancellation




  Project Dates
'~',s<+,,a,>,-'.'.~w,>a     ,+,,>,*-*--*       ,,,,
                                                *A,*,,"          ,M*,,,,-,M
                                                                                                              Original
                          "."...                                                   .....-.                                                          -- - -Actual      - --
                                "                                                             ~ "-                               "               -"             - --
  Board approval                                                                                                                                          05/09/1996
  Signing

  Effectiveness

  Closing date



  Staff Inputs (stuflweeks)                                                                                                                  _      -
                            --" "          '.                                             - ----                                              --"-**
 m                                              I Ijss-s-                    -_n     * *               -w-      **a w* a                                                  -%_*_I--

               Stage of Project Cycle                                                                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                                           No. Staff weeks                                          US$('OOO)




  Supervision                                                                                   140.4                                                 660.2
_Total                                                                                          251 0                                         _       1032 7       ----- -_
                         "
                                          X I * "-         mp*wm                   X _ w  * ^  -w*-mw-m        I          ->---                       _CXmm--                      "*
  Supervision Includes ICR as this information is not recorded separately

                                                                  16                                                      Annex A


Mission Data
                                     Date       No. of Persons and Speciality                                   Performance rating
                                 (month/vear)   (e.a. 2 Economists. I FMS. etcl                         I m ~ lProgress
                                                                                                               .         Dev.Obiective
Identification1                  08/27/1991   2    Economist, Financial Analyst
Preparation

                                                   Highway Engineer, Financial
                                                   Analyst

                                                   Highway Engineer, Procurement
                                                   Expert

                                                   Highway Engineer

                                                   Highway Engineer

                                                   Highway Engineer

                                                   Highway Engineer

                                                   Highway Engineer (2), Financial
                                                   Analyst, Economist, Civil Engineer,
                                                   Pavement Management Specialist,
                                                   Utilities Reg. Specialist, Human
                                                   Resource Specialist

                                                   Highway Engineer (2), Financial
                                                   Analyst, Economist, Civil Engineer,
                                                   Pavement Management Specialist,
                                                   Lawyer
Supervision                      06/24/1996
                                 10/05/1996        Sr. Operations Officer (I)

                                                   Team Leader (I)

                                                  Team Leader (1);Economist (1)

                                                   Engineer (I)

                                                  Team Leader (1);Engineer (2)

                                                  Team Leader (I)

                                                  Team Leader (1); Engineer (1);
                                                   Former Team Leader (1)

                                                   Snr. Economist (1);Engineer (1)

                                                  Team Leader (1);Engineer (1);
                                                  Consultant (1)

                                                  Team Leader (1);Operations
                                                  Officer (1); Financial Specialist (1)

                                                  Operations Officer (I)

                                                  Operations Officer (1)

                                                  Highway Engineer (1); Mission
                                                  Leader (1); Financial Management
                                                  (1
                                                  TTLIEconomist (1);Civil
                                                  Engineering (1)

                                                  TTLIEconomist (1);Civil
                                                  Engineering (1)

                                                  Team LeaderIEconomist (1);
                                                  Transport Specialist (1) Civil
                                                  Engineer (I)

                                                  TTL (1);Transport Specialist (1);
                                                  Procurement (1); Highway Engineer
                                                  (1)
                                                  TTL (1);PAS (1);FMS (1);Social
                                                  Scientist (1) ; Engineer (1) ;
                                                  Environment (2) ; Operations (1)
-
ICR                      -02/04                   ICR Consultant Operations
     --"-",zv,m*r"e    ., ","-->"                w , ~ ~ - # ~ ~ " m ~ . - v " . ~ " > ~ ~ - ~ , , -
                                                                                         ,",,,,      .  s

Annex B. Lesotho: Extent of Road Network and Funding for
Road Maintenance



 Table B1 Road Network in Lesotho by Authority and type
                                 Type of Road km     -
 Authority                            Paved             Gravel     I Earthlother       I   Total
 Roads Branch                        1 105.0            1 150.0                            2 255.0
 Department of Rural                      -             2 140.0         1 360.0            3 500.0
1Roads                          I                   1              I                   1             I
 Maseru City Council                   83.3             283.3            323.6             690.2
 Ministrv of Local Govt.               28.5              184.6           778.4             991.5
1TOTAL                               1 216.8        /   3 757.9    1    2 462.0        1   7 436.7    1
Source: "Study Review the Projected Road Maintenance Needs and the Generation of Road Fund to
Revenue", carried out by Africon Lesotho, published by the Road Fund Secretariat, July 2003




          I
          ~                      Funding for Road Maintenance


                100.00   ,   ---                       -
                                       - - m u -         * -




                                      Year ending 31 March

I Table  B2 Road Maintenance Funds by Source, Authority and Year LSL millions
( ~ x c l u d i nadministration.)
                  ~
  Source                           Authority         1999-2000         2003-2004        2005-2006
  Treasury                         Roads Br.            51.03             38.20           32.66
                                   DRR                   5.65              5.86            3.23
                                   Urban                 0.00              0.70            0.70
 Road Fund                         All                  27.26             19.22           20.00"
  Total Recurrent Allocation       Excl. admin          83.94             63.98           56.59
  Source: Government of Lesotho Budget Book for the various years, Roads Fund Audited Accounts
  * Estimate for 2005-2006 year for Roads Fund



