                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29279

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-28570)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        KINGDOM OF LESOTHO

                                                 FOR A
                      ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT




                                              May 25, 2004




Transport Sector
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective )

                          Currency Unit = Maloti

                  Maloti 3.67 (appraisal) = US$ 1
            Maloti 6.53428 (March 2004)

                US$ 1.49253 (appraisal) = SDR 1
              US$ 1.40753 (March 2004)

                                FISCAL YEAR
                              April 1    March 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CWS                        Civil Works Section
DCA                        Development Credit Agreement
DRR                        Department of Rural Roads
DTT                        Department of Traffic and Transport
EDF                        European Development Fund
GOL                        Government of Lesotho
IDA                        International Development Association
IEP                        Infrastructure Engineering Project
IRR                        International Rate of Return
LCU                        Labor Construction Unit
MOF                        Ministry of Finance
MoPWT                      Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MOW                        Ministry of Works
NRA                        National Road Authority
NTS                        National Transport Study
PMMS                       Pavement and Maintenance Management System
PPVS                       Public Plant and Vehicle Services
PVPS                       Plant and Vehicle Pool System
QAG                        Quality Assurance Group
QSR                        Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects
RB                         Road Branch
RCU                        Road Construction Unit
RF                         Road Fund
RIU                        Road Improvement Unit
RMMS                       Road Maintenance Management System
RRMP                       Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
SDR                        Special Drawing Rights

                         Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                       Country Director     Pamela Cox, Acting
                        Sector Manager      C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Gylfi Palsson

                                          LESOTHO
                             Lesotho ROAD REHAB. & MAINT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P001403                                                  Project Name: Lesotho ROAD REHAB. & MAINT
Team Leader: Gylfi Palsson                                           TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 8, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Lesotho ROAD REHAB. & MAINT                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-28570
   Country/Department: LESOTHO                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (76%); Central government administration
                            (24%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other financial and private
                            sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/01/1991                                     Effective: 10/16/1996                01/14/1997
     Appraisal: 06/27/1995                                         MTR: 03/01/1998                  07/14/2000
      Approval: 05/09/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/GOL
                      Other Partners:      EDF, KfW, Irish Aid

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             E. V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Pamela Cox                                     Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader at ICR:             Gylfi Palsson                                  Bernard Becq
ICR Primary Author:             James Otis Wright


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Lesotho Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP), as stated in
the Staff Appraisal Report of April 10, 1996, were (i) to develop government capacity to maintain
regularly the whole classified road network by the year 2000 and upgrade priority roads to
improved serviceability standards; (ii) to improve access to isolated areas and basic services in
district centers by facilitating road traffic and lowering transport costs; (iii) to develop further the
emerging private local road construction and maintenance industry, using mainly labor-based
methods; and (iv) to strengthen the planning, implementation and management capacity of the
road sector agencies through policy and institutional reforms and capacity building.

The objectives were stated clearly. They were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) which emphasized poverty reduction by expanding and improving rural and
peri-urban infrastructure and increasing the share of civil works using labor intensive techniques.
It supported reforms to create employment, address capacity constraints in the public sector,
invest in human resources and involve communities in the development and the management of
services.

Prior to project preparation, responsibilities in the road sector had been divided among several
agencies: the Roads Branch (RB) and the Labor Construction Unit (LCU), under the Ministry of
Works (MOW ­ now the Ministry of Public Works and Transport ­ MoPWT) and the Civil
Works Section (CWS) under the Ministry of Local Government. The RB had responsibility for
classified roads, the most important and most heavily trafficked. It had a Road Construction Unit
(RCU) for new construction and rehabilitation and a Road Improvement Unit (RIU) for
upgrading heavily trafficked secondary roads. The LCU was responsible for upgrading rural earth
roads to engineered standards and maintaining them with labor-based methods. The CWS had
responsibility for constructing and maintaining local earth roads and tracks using labor-based
methods. A separate Plant and Vehicle Pool System (PVPS) under the MOW owned mobile
plant and vehicles and operated inefficiently. This fragmentation of responsibilities led to
inefficiencies in planning and resource allocation.

There had been four previous World Bank assisted road projects in Lesotho focusing on
maintenance. However, maintenance continued to be poor due to inadequate funding and limited
institutional capacity. A key lesson learned was that the use of force account for road
maintenance did not lead to sustainability. This lesson was incorporated into the RRMP.

Policy dialogue and project preparation for RRMP was financed under an engineering loan, the
Lesotho Infrastructure Engineering Project (IEP - Cr. 2400-LSO) that became effective in 1992.
Road sector reform under the IEP involved: (i) Development and implementation of a Pavement
and Maintenance Management System (PMMS) in the RB in order to prepare a paved roads
component. (ii) Staff training in the RB funded by other donors. (iii) Development of a
small-scale contracting industry for road maintenance.

A National Transport Study (NTS), supported by several donors undertaken in 1994 in parallel
with the IEP also helped to shape RRMP. The sector strategy defined by the NTS emphasized (a)



                                                   - 2 -

reforming the policy and institutional environment, including private sector participation and cost
recovery; (b) developing the institutional, organizational and human resources to manage the road
sector; (c) investment in infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance, and (d) improved access
and transport services to mountain communities. The RRMP objectives were in line with this
proposed strategy. By 1995, dialogue under IEP led to a GOL commitment to focus on
maintenance and rehabilitation and to finance road maintenance through a Road Fund (RF)
financed from user charges. There would also be a progressive contracting out of maintenance,
and measures would be taken to retain staff in roads agencies and gradually reduce technical
assistance.

The objectives of the RRMP emerged from the IEP and the NTS. Objectives (i) and (iv),
reforming the policy and institutional environment and strengthening planning and management in
the road sector, were closely related and important. The project aimed to resolve these
organizational issues through the restructuring of MOW (later MoPWT) by regrouping all road
agencies under its authority and building capacity. Objective (ii), improving access to isolated
areas, was also important. Many past investments in Lesotho roads had been on the primary
transit and import/export corridors, neglecting the needs of large segments of the population.
Objective (iii), developing the emerging private local road construction and maintenance industry
using mainly labor-based methods, was important for building local capacity, improving efficiency
and addressing poverty.

Although the objectives outlined a necessary restructuring of public sector agencies and
development of private sector capacity, they were inherently risky. Previous efforts had yielded
only limited progress due to bureaucratic inertia and limited capacity in sector agencies. The
persistence of these constraints led to serious delays during implementation, particularly at the
beginning of the project.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
(i) The civil works program. (84% of Base Costs) This included: (a) gradual implementation of
routine maintenance on the whole classified network and periodic maintenance on all sections of
the classified network in good or fair condition; (b) rehabilitation of gravel road sections in poor
condition that have deteriorated past the point of maintenance to as-built, maintainable standards,
and the strengthening (rehabilitating to provide a reasonable riding surface) of those RB
essential/priority road assets (mostly heavily-trafficked trunk roads around Maseru); and (c)
upgrading key selected rural earth and gravel roads to all-weather standards and the upgrading of
four key RB unpaved trunk road sections from gravel to paved standards.

(ii) Design, engineering and supervision (4% of base cost). This involved (a) feasibility and
detailed design studies for upgrading RB gravel roads to paved standards and design for
upgrading LCU roads to engineered gravel standards; (b) engineering studies for rehabilitation
works of LCU roads and RB paved roads; (c) bridge assessment and studies for urban roads, (d)
design and supervision for an LCU training center; and (e) supervision of major upgrading and
rehabilitation works.



                                                  - 3 -

(iii) Sector institutional reform and capacity building (12% of base cost). This included (a)
institutional reform to assist Government in implementing key regulatory and policy reforms,
including restructuring MOW and establishing sustainable road financing mechanisms (cost
recovery) to enable full government financing of maintenance and rehabilitation; (b) development
of capacity of the road agencies initiated under the IEP; and (c) logistical support to RB and the
LCU. Under item iii (a) two agencies would be established within the Ministry of Works: one for
roads of national importance, the Roads Branch (RB), and one for rural roads (the combined
LCU/CWS) which became the Department of Rural Roads (DRR).

The components were consistent with the objectives. IDA financing of US$ 40 million
constituted 31% of the project cost of US$129 million. Other donors (mainly the EU and Ireland
Aid) were to furnish 19% of the funding and the Government was committed to funding 50% of
the project cost.

The institutional reform and capacity building component was detailed in the Implementation
Manual, and summarized in the Government's Letter of Sector Policy submitted to IDA before
Board Presentation. It included (a) improving cost recovery for maintenance, (b) restructuring
MOW, (c) restructuring/privatizing the Public Plant and Vehicle Services (PPVS), (d)
strengthening the road construction industry through contracting out and training, (d) assessing
the feasibility of an independent Road Authority; (e) defining environmental standards for road
works; (e) addressing road transport issues (e.g. road safety, axle-load enforcement), and (f)
having stakeholder participation in the Road Fund Board (which governs the Road Fund).

Capacity building included (a) strengthening MOW implementation capacity including RB and
LCU regional offices (e.g. financial management contract supervision, maintenance systems); (b)
manpower development to retain qualified local staff and reduce expatriate staff; and (c) a training
program for mid-level management. There was a consensus among donors that long-term
technical assistance would be limited and phased out as soon as local expertise was available.

3.4 Revised Components:
The DCA was amended to enable IDA support for periodic maintenance of gravel roads to
continue at a 50% level past the end of 1999.

The project had been rated unsatisfactory prior to the Mid-Term review which was carried out in
July 2000. After more than three years of effectiveness, only US$7 million of the IDA credit (less
than 20 % of the total) had been disbursed, and the project was rated unsatisfactory with regard
to development objectives, implementation progress and project management. At that time a new
program was agreed upon for the next 18 months up to the closing date of December 31, 2001.
The IDA credit amount was reduced from SDR 26.80 million (approx US$ 40.00 million) to SDR
17.80 (approx. US$ 23.00million). Most of the reduction was from road upgrading, which was
behind schedule, and from consultancies for institution building component that were delayed.
Following a request by the government to reduce the credit amount, an amendment to this effect
was signed on October 17, 2000.




                                                  - 4 -

Four actions were agreed upon during the mid-term review as necessary steps to bring the project
ratings to satisfactory. First, a project coordination advisor would be hired. Second, a consultant
would be engaged to carry out an institutional study, resolve delays in institutional reform and
help design a National Roads Authority. Third, a procurement consultant would be recruited.
Fourth, the Roads Branch would cease direct construction and road improvement and a
consultant would be hired to carry out a study of the road construction industry.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Prior to Board Presentation, institutional reforms were agreed upon and the training of
contractors was begun. The IEP, the NTS and project preparation work provided a good point of
departure for this project. However, the implementation of IEP also provided some warning
signals. Poor inter-agency coordination, inadequate counterpart funding, project extensions,
delays in staff training and slow disbursements did not augur well for this follow-on project which
had an even broader policy reform agenda. While the reform agenda was desirable, it implied
difficult institutional and policy reforms that ultimately led to delays in achieving effectiveness
conditions (some not achieved until January 1997) and implementation. The time necessary to
change government policies was underestimated. There were not enough experienced personnel
to manage the program, and the project did not allow for the inherent capacity constraints of
Lesotho (see section 5.1), which were already an issue before majority rule in South Africa and
became even more problematic afterwards. Some project agencies, especially the Road Fund and
the Road Fund Board, were slow to adapt to their new roles.

Although the components were consistent with the objectives, some proved to be over-designed.
The Road Fund was designed as in other African countries, but capacity was limited and the low
traffic volume and extensive road network made it difficult to mobilize adequate user fees to
cover routine and periodic maintenance. The large program for institutional reform and capacity
building was well funded (US$ 14.3 million), but by mid-term only US$ 3 million had been spent.
Very limited long-term expatriate consultant assistance was included in the project because there
was an expectation that local capacity would develop quickly. This proved difficult. Delays in
institutional reform and capacity building led to delays in infrastructure components and led to the
restructuring of the project at mid-term. Because implementation difficulties were not anticipated
and the reform program was beyond the capacity of the borrower, quality at entry is rated
unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
During the early years project progress was slow. Effectiveness took nine months by the failure to
meet the conditions, particularly the staffing of the project unit. A rescheduled Mid-Term Review
was delayed from October 1999 to May 2000. Because only 20% of the IDA credit had been
disbursed at that time, SDR 9 million (approx. US$ 12 million) were cancelled from the credit.
This reduced the project scope, but the additional institutional and technical assistance agreed
upon then enabled the project to more easily achieve its objectives. Because these changes led to
improved project implementation and institutional development achievement of outcome is rated
satisfactory.




                                                   - 5 -

(i) The objective of developing capacity to maintain regularly the whole classified road network
by the year 2000 and upgrade priority roads to improved serviceability standards has been largely
achieved. Government supervision and local private contracting capacity has been built. The goal
was to have sufficient funds available in the Road Fund to cover 100% of routine and periodic
maintenance by 2000. At the end of the project, funding from the RF and the MOF was meeting
60% to 70% of routine and periodic maintenance needs. While this did not meet the full target, it
is a notable achievement when compared with other African countries.

(ii) The objective of improving access to isolated areas has been achieved with the rehabilitation
of all planned rural roads. A consultant study commissioned by DRR assessed the impact of
improved rural roads. Rural residents considered improved access to be greatest value of
improved rural roads. Employment is also important. The supply of labor is far above demand at
present wage, requiring job rotation to spread job opportunities. Most participants worked only
three months. Upgraded rural roads were also found to have attracted a range of new businesses
and improved rural communities' access to social and economic services.

(iii) The objective of developing the private local road construction capacity and maintenance
industry has been achieved. Sixty-five contractors have been trained, and the use of force account
for routine and periodic maintenance by the Department of Rural Roads has been phased out. A
system for contractor and consultant training has been institutionalized by DRR. The Roads
Branch has encouraged local medium-sized contractors to carry out periodic maintenance which
is now all contracted out, and it has facilitated the merging of several local medium sized
contractors to form a large scale contracting unit capable of winning international tenders.

(iv) The objective of strengthening the planning, implementation and management capacity of the
road sector agencies has been partly attained. Most staff in the implementing agencies have been
trained, and an institutional reform study (National Road Authority Study) has been completed.
A MoPWT Technical Steering Committee has made recommendations for management and
institutional reforms that will soon be considered by Government and will be implemented in a
proposed follow-up operation. The National Roads Authority has not yet been established.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(i) Civil works program. The civil works program was largely successfully implemented.

(a) Gradual implementation of routine maintenance on the whole classified network, and periodic
maintenance on all sections of the classified network in good or fair condition: This has been
largely achieved. DDR and RB regularly maintain (routine and periodic) from GOL funds all the
paved, gravel and constructed earth roads of the rural road network and urban arterial roads.
However, some 600 km of rural access tracks under DRR's control are not in maintainable
condition, and 1700 km of urban roads and tracks are not subject to regular maintenance. Over
5,098 km of routine maintenance (4040 km planned) was done from GOL funds, by small-scale
works contracts. Only 315 km of periodic maintenance of DRR rural gravel roads was done (499
km planned). The other 184 km of roads required rehabilitation which was done with IDA and
GOL funding.

(b) Rehabilitation of gravel road sections that have deteriorated past the point of maintenance to


                                                   - 6 -

as-built, maintainable standards, and the strengthening of RB essential/priority roads (mostly trunk
roads around Maseru): This has been largely achieved. Under the DRR, 392 km of gravel roads
were rehabilitated by small-scale works contracts, using IDA and GOL funds (70%/30%), a 90%
increase over what was originally intended. The RB rehabilitated 60 km of gravel road from
Mpiti ­ Matlali ­ Ramatseliso's Gate Road using IDA and GOL funds (70%/30%) as a capacity
building project for local construction industry. The Mphaki ­ Ongeluk's Nek and Qhoalinyane ­
Malefane gravel road rehabilitation (62 km) was deferred due to high cost estimates. The 15 km
urban arterial road in Maseru and the Butha-Buthe ­ Oxbow Road (66 km) were rehabilitated as
planned using IDA and GOL funds (70%/30%). This contract was extended for an additional 22
km of repairs on the Oxbow ­ Mokhotlong Road that were damaged by frost.

(c) Upgrading of key rural earth and gravel roads to all-weather standards (CWS roads from earth
to 5 meter engineered gravel standards by the LCU), upgrading of four LCU roads from gravel to
engineered 5 meter gravel standards by the RB, and the upgrading of four key RB unpaved trunk
road sections from gravel to paved standard: This has been largely achieved. DRR upgraded 281
km of rural earth track to gravel road standard using IDA and GOL funds (90%/10%), only 70%
of the target, due to the high cost of upgrading in the mountainous areas. The DRR training
center at Teyateyaneng was upgraded in three phases and is used to train small-scale contractors
and consultants in labor based works.

(ii) Design, engineering and supervision services in support of the program: This component was
successfully implemented.

(a) Feasibility and detail design studies for upgrading RB gravel roads to paved standards and
design for upgrading LCU roads to engineered gravel standards: These were successfully carried
out by local and international consultants. Feasibility studies and designs for the B42, B43 ad
B47 roads were done by the RB using EDF funding. The upgrading designs for DRR roads were
done in house and by consultants using IDA funds. Three other roads were designed by local
consultants but not constructed.

(b) Engineering studies for rehabilitation of LCU roads and RB paved roads: Engineering designs
were prepared for DRR works using GOL funds. The Buthe-Butha ­ Oxbow paved road
rehabilitation was designed by international consultants using IDA funds. Emergency repairs of
the Oxbow ­ Mokhotlong Road were designed in-house. The Mpiti ­ Matlali ­ Ramatseliso's
Gate Road was designed and supervised by a Maseru based consultant.

(c) Bridge assessment and studies for urban roads: Design works for Maseru Urban Roads were
carried out by international consultants, using IDA funds on behalf of the Roads Branch.

(d) Design and supervision for an LCU training center: Designs for the Training Centre were
done by the Ministry's Building Design Services with GOL funds.

(e) Supervision services for major upgrading and rehabilitation works: This was achieved in house
with GOL funds and by consultants using IDA and EDF funds.




                                                 - 7 -

(iii) Sector institutional reform and capacity building This component was largely successfully
implemented. (See also Section 4.5)

(a) Institutional reform to assist Government with regulatory and policy reforms within the
framework, including restructuring MOW and establishing sustainable road financing mechanisms:
Slower than expected institutional development in road agencies early in the project period
(particularly in contracting out) led to implementation and disbursement lags. At Mid-Term
institutional reforms were redesigned to assist Government in implementing key regulatory and
policy reforms, including restructuring MoPWT and establishing sustainable road financing
mechanisms (see Section 4.5)

The Road Fund and the Road Fund Board have been established but require further institutional
development (see Section 4.5).

A study assessed the feasibility of a National Road Authority (NRA). The objective was to assist
the Government to explore options for restructuring the road agencies to increase accountability,
transparency and service efficiency. Recommendations on a proposed model have been made and
once these are approved, will be further developed under a proposed follow-on project. At
project closing a MoPWT working paper on establishing a Road Authority was being presented to
Cabinet.

Develop the organizational and implementation capacity of the road agencies initiated under the
IEP: (see also Section 4.5)

The merger of LCU and CWS to form DRR was achieved early in the RRMP, but other
institutional development was slow to get started. Implementation capacity was developed by
training of staff members which helped lead to improved implementation during the latter part of
the project.

DRR has trained 65 small scale labor based works contractors in both road maintenance and
rehabilitation and 10 contractors in road construction and upgrading. DRR has also trained its
own staff and consultants in the industry in the design and supervision of small scale labor-based
works contracts. Training material for design, tendering, procurement, quality assurance,
contracting and contract management of small scale labor based works has been developed and is
used in the training center.

RB has facilitated and encouraged local medium scale subcontractors to expand to undertake road
construction operations, and to consolidate to provide large scale contracting potential to
compete in international competitive bidding for road construction projects.

(c) Logistical support

Logistical support was provided, including a vehicle, laboratory equipment for DRR and
computers and equipment for the MoPWT.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:



                                                  - 8 -

Annex 3 describes the ex-post economic evaluation carried out by the borrower and compares the
International Rates of Return to the Staff Appraisal Report estimates with the estimates made at
the time of detailed design. The ex-post rates of return calculated for six road segments range
between 10% and 73%. There are no calculations for four of the main road segments. This
compares to IRR estimates in the SAR which ranged from 26% to 199% and to design estimates
of 13% to 29%. The SAR estimates were based on very broad averages of traffic recording these
to be similar on all the roads in the two groups of projects considered (rural and urban). Rural
road upgrading and rehabilitation projects were not subjected too economic evaluation, but were
justified under socio-economic criteria.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return are not relevant to this type of non-revenue generating project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
During project preparation an action plan on institutional/policy reform was agreed upon. Much
has been accomplished, but some institutional improvements are still needed and are expected to
be pursued in a proposed follow-on project.

(i) The Road Fund was established by the Road Fund Act in 1995, but it did not become
operational until 1998. The Fund is financed by tollgate revenue, a fuel levy and license fees.
There were staffing and audit problems but these are largely resolved. The RF substantially
collected arrears in the last year of the project, but some 600,000 Maloti were still owed by
Treasury for revenues collected by the Department of Transport and Traffic (DTT) in previous
years. Recently 3.1 million Maloti were remitted by South African banks to the Road Fund out of
the 4 million Maloti owed by oil companies. Arrangements are needed with Treasury whereby
scheduled deposits would be made in the RF based on budgeted revenue collection by DTT.
Funds from most of these sources have been decreasing and are often remitted late to the Road
Fund. Some of the shortfalls are made up by direct transfers by the Ministry of Finance to the
road agencies, but this is inconsistent with the concept of financing maintenance through user
fees. The letter of sector policy stated that all routine and periodic maintenance would be financed
by the Road Fund by the end of the Project. This has not yet happened, but 60% to 70% of
routine and periodic maintenance needs are provided by the RF and MOF.

The public/private Road Fund Board, which was intended to oversee the Road Fund, has
functioned erratically and members have short terms. This has also led to delays because the
Board must ratify appointment of staff to positions in the Road Fund.

(ii) By early 2000 planning and budgeting at MoPWT was still piecemeal and organizational
development lagged; commercialization of the sector was not progressing. This situation
improved. There has been a shift in the DDR away from force account to the use of contractors,
and engineers were hired and to supervise contactors. Staff who were to be retrenched have been
trained as contract managers so they can be employed in the private sector. The Roads Branch is
also shifting to the use of contractors. There has been considerable capacity building of RB staff
under the project, and some engineers and technicians for RB have been attached to contractors
for on-the-job training. RB has undertaken a study of the construction industry which made
recommendations for training contractors and setting up a contractors' council. This will be



                                                   - 9 -

pursued in a proposed follow-on project. The PVPS has been restructured and its heavy plant and
equipment was valuated and auctioned off before the end of 1999. The Road Improvement Unit
(RIU) of the RB has few assets and would be more difficult to privatize. Since most road
maintenance is to be done by private sector, staff of RIU may be retrenched.

(iii) The feasibility study for a National Road Authority (NRA) was initiated in 2001. The
objective was to assist the Government to explore options for restructuring the road agencies in
order to increase accountability, transparency and service efficiency. The study concluded that
NRA was appropriate but the Ministry realized a wider consultation was necessary. This resulted
in a recommendation to establish an NRA being submitted to Government. This will be pursued in
a proposed follow-up project.

(iv) The Road Safety Section of the Department of Traffic and Transport of the MoPWT has been
strengthened with EU support. It has its own budget and will soon be a separate department. It
has identified dangerous spots on one road and rectified them. Equipment has been procured for
axel load control and staff have been hired and trained. A Road Safety Act is in place, but needs
to be more comprehensive. Efforts are being made to design road safety improvements into road
infrastructure.

Especially because of the strengthening of the agencies in MoPWT and the establishment of the
Road Fund, institutional development is modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Civil disturbances in 1998 and 1999 caused serious disruptions and delays for the project during
its early phases. Implementation was hampered for nearly two years, and Bank staff was restricted
from full supervision during this period. Additionally, in the months and years preceding the
disturbances, political uncertainties had negative effect on implementation.

The extreme fluctuations in the rates of exchange between the SDR, the US$ and the LSL caused
difficulties in assessing the available funding, because most contracts were denominated in LSL
and payments were made in US$. The exchange rate varied from LSL 6 to the US$ to LSL 12 to
the US$.

Following majority rule in South Africa, it became much more difficult to retain qualified Basotho
experts to work in the project. Some project staff found higher paying jobs in South Africa and
many students studying there did not return. This ongoing constraint to experienced personnel,
hampered the project throughout most of the implemenattion period.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government committed itself in its Letter of Sector Policy to enable the RF to finance all routine
and periodic maintenance by the end of the project. This has not happened, but progress has been
made. Staffing and auditing have been constant problems in the Road Fund. The Road Fund
Board has also not developed as expected. All funds collected in its behalf have not been remitted
to it, although it is recognized that towards the end of the project outstanding balances had been
significantly reduced.


                                                     - 10 -

Because of early delays in meeting effectiveness conditions and slow start-up of capacity building
and works, the project could not be completed prior to the original credit closing date of
December 31, 2001. The closing date was first extended to December 31, 2002 and subsequently
to December 31, 2003.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project coordination was a concern during the early years of the project (through 1999). The
Project Coordinator failed to provide follow through which contributed to delays. This situation
improved after the Mid-Term Review.

Reporting was problematic, especially at the beginning of the project. Quarterly reports were
being received by the Bank from RB, LCU and FCMU, but the integrated quarterly and annual
reports, including performance indicators, were not received. Financial management was also a
problem early in the project but became more satisfactory after the recruitment of a Financial
Controller in 1999.

The implementing agency capacity did not develop as quickly as expected. This was addressed by
engaging a technical assistant to the Road Branch. Project coordination was also a problem
initially, which was addressed by a change in Project Coordinator and the recruitment of a Project
Coordination Advisor. Procurement lagged which required the recruitment of Procurement and
Contracts Management advisor. Most of the implementation problems were resolved later in the
project period as staff acquired more experience and some outside assistance was recruited.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Of the appraisal estimate of US$ 129 million, which included funding from IDA, from
co-financiers and counterpart funding, US$ 124.6 million (97% of the estimate) were spent under
the project (see Annex 1). By far the largest amount was for road rehabilitation and maintenance
works: US$ 16.0 million by IDA, US$ 61.9 million by the Government and US$ 29.3 million by
co-financiers, a total of US$ 107 million and about 86% of the funds spent under the project. A
total of US$ 14.8 million (12% of total cost) was spent for institutional reform and capacity
building.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The organization and staffing of the Roads Branch and the Department of Rural Roads has been
strengthened. The restructuring of responsibilities within the ministry and the training of staff will
contribute to sustainability of the roads improved under the project and the overall roads program
in Lesotho.

The phasing out of force account and the development of private sector contractors and
engineering consultants will make a large contribution to the sustainability of the road works
financed under the project. This success has included the training of contractors in road
maintenance and institutionalizing a system for contractor and staff training in the future.

The future development of the Road Fund to provide funding for maintenance is more


                                                    - 11 -

questionable, although 70% of the funds needed for road maintenance are being provided by the
RF and the Ministry of Finance. The policy environment for road maintenance funding will be
further developed in a follow-up project. Discussions are again underway to create a National
Roads Authority that would bring most road-related functions under one umbrella, including the
Road Fund and the implementing agencies. This would increase efficiency and the prospect for
sustainability. Sustainability is rated likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Rehabilitated roads are the responsibility of the Roads Branch and the DRR to maintain. This
project and a proposed follow-up lending operation will continue to build the capacity and ensure
financial arrangements to fulfill this task.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was prepared in conjunction with the Lesotho Infrastructure Engineering Project.
There were ten supervision missions for that project, the last two of which focused on the
preparation and appraisal of this project. Several important steps were taken under the IEP in
preparation for this project. A Road Maintenance Management System (RMMS) was established
in RB with consultant assistance. There was training for RB staff, and small contactors were
trained in road maintenance management. The mid-term review of the IEC in October 1994
focused on the preparation of RRMP. A National Transport Study, also carried out during this
period, helped form the broader policy framework for RRMP. While these efforts were important,
the IEP alone did not provide sufficient basis for success. The establishment of a Road Fund and
objectives to be achieved by it (see Section 3.5) proved to be beyond local capacity. The potential
difficulties and time needed for change were underestimated. There was not enough local capacity
and commitment at that time to manage the large agenda that was laid out. This eventually led to
the partial cancellation and restructuring of the project. For these reasons, Bank performance
during lending is rated unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
There were 19 supervision missions from September 1996 to November 2003. Most were staffed
with one a road engineer and a financial analyst. Pavement management and procurement
specialists also joined some missions. The mid-term review of the project was a pivotal point
when key issues were brought to fore and dealt with. The restructuring that followed enabled the
project to be completed on a smaller scale but with positive results and good prospects for future
development. Despite poor design, the project was successfully restructured, setting out a more
achievable agenda, which led to improved implementation. Bank supervision is therefore rated
satisfactory.

A Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects (QSR) assessment was carried out by the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) during FY 2000 and FY 2001, following the mid-term review.
Supervision was rated satisfactory overall for all the categories except for "realism of project
performance" which was rated marginal. The assessment noted that the project design went
beyond what GOL could have been expected to implement during the project period. There were
problems with institutional reforms and the Road Fund was not operational. These problems



                                                  - 12 -

were accentuated by major civil disturbances in 1998/99. However, the mid-term review, the
reduction of the credit amount and more intensive efforts on institutional development, including
the Road Fund, improved the prospects for a successful outcome.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The preparation of the project in conjunction with IEP provided a basis for appraisal, but there
was an underestimation of the institutional rigidities and lack of capacity. However, these issues
were perceived and addressed before and during the mid-term review of RRMP. The project was
scaled down, but key institutional objectives were not abandoned. Bank missions prepared very
detailed checklists to guide implementation and followed up on them fully. In the end, most of
the objectives were accomplished. Because of this, overall Bank performance is rated
satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation and appraisal of RRMP was constrained due to slow progress in the government in
developing an overall transport policy framework, lack of a strategy for implementing selected
priority policies and slow progress with policy dialogue for the roads sector (lack of a clear
overall strategy and adequately defined priorities). Roads sector policy preparation was delayed
by three months. Preparation was also delayed for paved roads due to slow progress with
capacity building in the sector. Nevertheless, enough progress was made to establish the basis for
the project. Borrower performance in preparation is rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government did not support the project sufficiently at the beginning. Delays in meeting the
conditions of effectiveness, particularly the transfer of LCU road maintenance to MoPWT,
constrained initial progress. After the project was rated unsatisfactory at mid-term, the
Government agreed to important changes that enabled it to meet most of its objectives (see
Section 4.1). While government has created the Road Fund and the Road Fund Board, it has not
supported their development and fostered their ability to assure adequate financing for the roads
sector. Nonetheless, especially after restructuring, the government improved its support for the
project. Government performance is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agencies were slow to start the project due to lack of capacity. The original
Project Coordinator was also Director of Planning in the MoPWT which did not enable him to
devote full attention to the project. This was later rectified by appointing a full-time Project
Coordinator. As the project progressed some of the more important reforms, such as privatizing
road maintenance, were implemented. This constituted an important break from the past. Despite
the slow start and the resulting need to cancel a large part of the credit, on balance implementing
agency performance was satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The restructuring of the project at the mid-term review paved the way for a much more successful
second half of the project. The components that were left in the project were largely completed,
institutional development progressed and a follow-on project is being prepared to give further
impetus to this progress. Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.



                                                 - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned

l Privatized road maintenance is already yielding important benefits for the road sector. This
    project provides a good lesson on the process needed to move from force account to private
    sector maintenance. It also shows the difficulties and the steps necessary to implement the
    changes.

l To be effective, Road Funds need adequate assured sources of finance, independence and an
    effective governance structure. All three of these factors constrained the development of the
    RF in Lesotho. Maintenance financing is complicated. Since user fees are insufficient, it
    includes direct government contributions. If separate Government contributions continue, it
    would be better for Government to deposit its contribution into the Road funding so that all
    maintenance funds can be programmed from a single source. The Road Fund's independence
    and governance structure have also been somewhat lacking, which has constrained its
    development as originally intended.

l The resistance to privatization of road maintenance from vested interests can be overcome.
    This project has shown that road agencies can be helped to restructure maintenance with the
    necessary political support and well targeted outside assistance. Effective involvement and
    training of private contractors and supervision consultants and retraining of displaced workers
    also can contribute to success.

l Some technical assistance is often necessary when systems are reformed to the degree
    undertaken in this project. The Letter of Sector Policy given to the Bank at appraisal
    acknowledged that reforms in the roads agencies were necessary. The difficulty of
    implementing these changes required some outside assistance. This was only recognized after
    valuable time was lost.

l The time needed to achieve this type of reform should not be underestimated. A program of
    incremental improvement, possibly involving a series of operations, is often likely to be more
    realistic and effective.

l It is difficult to design project in low capacity countries. This is especially true in a country
    like Lesotho, where employment opportunities in a neighoring country are easily found.
    Projects in these situations should be carefully designed to mitigate this constraint, for
    instance through higher payscale and benefits, continuing education opportunities and in some
    cases long term and/or intermittent technical assistance.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments were not received from borrower. However, borrower prepared its own ICR, executive
summary of which is presented in Section 10.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments were received from Development Cooperation Ireland.




                                                - 14 -

"The report was very useful but is a little 'too kind' on some key issues
especially maintenance.

Maintenance
1. under-estimation of maintenance funding gap
the report estimates that GoL/Road Fund Board (RFB) can finance 60-70% of its
routine and periodic maintenance requirements but:
1.1 has the "Africon " consultants study been taken into account (indicates
that available financing meets only 35% of the need).
1.2 how was this figure of 60-70% arrived at and has the study taken into
account the frequency (reduced application of routine maintenance from 6-8 to
4 times per year) as well as the standard (our instinct is that the majority
of periodic maintenance is unaffordable). The objective of "routine
maintenance for the whole network and full periodic maintenance of the fair to
good network by 2000" is still a pipedream.
1.3 the situation with the RFB is compounded by the fact that money is not
allocated to routine maintenance as a priority but to Maseru roads upgrading
and public lighting contracts.
1.4 there are alarming references to RFB sources decreasing but I would hope
that this was a historical matter although from our meetings there were no
signs of increased funding.

2. contractors and "triggers"
in general the report points out that the World bank identified strategic
constraints such as maintenance funding and institutional issues including the
road authority and use of private sector. They should also receive credit for
taking a flexible and performance based approach cutting back funding from $40
to $23 million at the mid term review when it emerged that local capacity was
not available. This could be a useful example for other partners going
forward.

Overall in DCI we feel that lack of maintenance funding and excessive design
standards on low volume roads are the key issues threatening future DCI
support to rehabilitation of gravel roads. Unless we have a clear and honest
appraisal of the road financing position of GoL we will not be able to deliver
our ODA in the manner best suited to minimising the long term costs of
maintaining the network."

On the differing percentages: The 60-70% figure was derived at by combining the RF disbursements
(ranging about 25-30 m M) with allocations of the budget for maintenance (varying but normally about
30-40 m M). These together over the past few years have been in the 60-70% range of the financing needed
for routine and periodic maintenance only (estimated in the Africon study to be 88.5 million Maloti
annually).

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not solicited.

10. Additional Information

The Government has prepared its own Implementation Completion Report, full version of which is in
project files. Following is its executive summary of the report.



Government ICR - Final.doc




                                                   - 15 -

         ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT:

                  FINAL REPORT FOR IDA FUNDED COMPNENT


·       Executive Summary
·       Overall Outline
 Project Title:        Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
 Donors:               IDA, EDF, KfW, IRELAND AID
 Project Costs:        See Table Error! Reference source not found..1 following
 Impl.Agency:          Ministry of Public Works and Transport
 Major                 The overall aim of the RRMP is to support both economic growth and
 Objective:            the country's poverty reduction strategy by developing the GOL's
                       capacity to regularly maintain the whole classified road network, and
                       upgrade priority roads to improved serviceability standards; improving
                       access to isolated areas and basic services in district centres by
                       facilitating road traffic, and lowering transport costs; further developing
                       the emerging private local road construction and maintenance industry,
                       using       mainly        labour-based     methods       to     generate        productive
                       employment;           strengthening      the   planning,        implementation           and
                       management capacity of the Roads Sector agencies, through policy and
                       institutional reforms and capacity building support;
 Beneficiaries:        Road users, communities served by roads, construction industry
 Dates:       IDA 16/07/1996               Effectiveness       30/01/1997       Close 31/12/2003
 DCA
                EU EDF 7, EDF 8 ongoing
 Utilised funds:       See Table Error! Reference source not found..1following


·       Overall Finances

Table Error! Reference source not found..1 Finances for RRMP
Donor                 Orig. Provision Total Provision                  Amount                          %
                          (SAR)                  (after MTR)          Expended                   Expended
IDA                           40                    22.9#                 22.9                      100%
EDF                           17                     35.1                34.0*                       97%
KfW                            6                     2.3                   2.3                      100%
Irish Aid                    1.7                     2.0                   2.0                      100%
GOL (Cfunds)                 16.3                    7.7                   7.7                      100%
GOL (100%)                    48                     48.0                 54.0                      113%
Total                        129                    118.0                122.9                      104%


SAR = Staff Appraisal Report at start of project; MTR = Mid-term Review, * estimates based on latest figures - ongoing
# MTR target changed due to SDR to US$ exchange rate ­ eventually US$ 24.1 available ­ so utilisation was 95%
GOL (Cfunds) = GOL's counterpart funds for components funded by IDA and GOL jointly.
GOL (100%) = GOL's commitment to 100% funding of routine road maintenance over the project life.




                                                          - 16 -

As the subject of this report is the IDA funded components of the RRMP, the content of the
report will only deal with these items.


·      IDA Project Data
The details of the project data used for the IDA component of the RRMP are tabulated in the
following table:

Item                              Details
Name of Project:                  Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Credit Number:                    CR 2857 ­ LSO
IDA Country and Region:           Lesotho, Africa Region
IDA Sector:                       Transport
Dates:
                                  Development Credit Agreement:16 July 1996
                                  Effectiveness:30 January 1997
                                  Original Closing date:31 December 2001
                                  Extended by first extension:31 December 2002
                                  Closing date by second extension:31 December 2003
Borrower/                         Government Of Lesotho
Implementing Agency               Ministry of Public Works and Transport




·      Summary of IDA Costs
The IDA component of the RRMP was provided for as shown in Table 1.4.1, which also contains
the actual costs disbursed.




                                                - 17 -

 Table Error! Reference source not found..1: Summary of IDA Funds provided and

 actually used

                                   DCA             MTR           Realloc. 1      Realloc. 2         Actual*
 Cat.     Description.           IDA SDR         IDA SDR         IDA SDR          IDA SDR          IDA SDR
 1                                 1,150,000      1,100,000        1,000,000       1,000,000            704,426
 1a       Periodic rd mtn.          750,000         450,000          423,393          423,393           399,901
 1b       Periodic rd mtn.          400,000         650,000           96,466            96,466           96,466
 1c       Periodic rd mtn.                 0               0         480,141          480,141           208,058
 2                                14,100,000     11,150,000      11,770,000       11,700,000       11,324,977
 2a       Road Rehab.              5,400,000      8,200,000      10,420,000       10,600,000       10,398,850
 2b       DRR Rd Upgrade           4,150,000      2,950,000        1,350,000       1,100,000            926,127
 2c       RB Rd Upgrade            4,550,000               0               0                                  0
 3        Equipment                 600,000         150,000          150,000          300,000           258,650
 4        Consultancies            7,700,000      4,650,000        4,800,000       4,800,000         4,696,980
 Total                            23,550,000     17,050,000      17,720,000       17,800,000       16,985,033
 Unall.                            3,250,000        750,000           80,000                            814,967
 DCA
 Total                            26,800,000     17,800,000      17,800,000       17,800,000       17,800,000


DCA = Development Credit Agreement, MTR = Mid Term Review, IDA SDR = IDA Special Drawing Rights.
DRR ­ Department of Rural Roads, RB = Roads Branch.
* Actuals will vary marginally from indicated figures due to retention/defects liabilities periods still running.



·        Performance Ratings
Project performance ratings are attributed to the project by the IDA.                        The following table
illustrates the "borrower assessment of the performance of the RRMP":

Table 1.5.1 Borrower Assessment of Performance Rating of RRMP
ItemRatingComment
OutcomeSatisfactoryAfter a poor start, most revised targets were achieved.
SustainabilityLikelyMaintenance and rehabilitation of road infrastructure was facilitated.
Institutional reforms and capacity building achieved are robust and sustainable.
Institutional Development ImpactModest to SubstantialSome aspects (small contractor
training) were very satisfactory. Overall restructuring of road subsector only partially
achieved. Capacities in both Government and private sector improved.
Bank PerformanceSatisfactoryChanges of Team Leaders caused some delays.                                       Poor
communication between Bank and Borrower early in the RRMP lead to poor cooperation
initially.
Borrower PerformanceInitially poor
Later satisfactoryLack of clear understanding of IDA requirements lead to initial delays and
lack of absorptive capacity. This was overcome in latter part of project.
Project at riskYesRed flags identified at Mid Term Review ­ later removed when issues
addressed.


·        Summary of Assessment of Objectives and Design


                                                      - 18 -

While the overall objectives and design of the RRMP were sound, several issues that appear not
to have been satisfactorily resolved during preparation resulted in delays and misunderstandings at
the start of the Project. These included conditionalities of effectiveness relating to establishing of
the Road Fund and the standards required for the Maseru Roads Rehabilitation Project. Over
estimation of the implementation capacity and the possible rate of implementation of policy and
institutional reforms appear to be the major factor contributing to initial lack of progress of an
otherwise soundly based Project. A more holistic approach to training, including some long term
training to address capacity needs, would have been apprpriate.

·       Summary of Practical Achievements
The following table summarises practical achievements attained under the RRMP, compared to
the original list of targets identified for the Project. A full list of all IDA funded contracts with
their value, and amount paid by IDA is given in Annex A.




                                                 - 19 -

 Table Error! Reference source not found..1 Summary of Practical Achievement under
 RRMP
 Cat.    Item description             Funds  Target   Achieved            Comment
         Routine maintenance         GOL     4040 km  6721 km  Achieved value increased with
                                                               extension of time
 1       Periodic maintenance        IDA/GOL 499 km   315 km   Some    rural   roads   required
                                     50/50                     rehabilitation    rather   than
                                                               periodic maintenance
 2(a)    Rehabilitation          of  IDA/GOL 200 km   140 km   Two lots of roads deferred due
         gazetted roads              70/30                     to perceived budget constraint
 2(b)i   Rehabilitation of rural     IDA/GOL 196 km   381 km   Increase due to more roads
         roads                       70/30                     requiring rehabilitation
 2(b)ii  Upgrading     of   various  IDA/GOL 390 km   404 km   Achieved.
         rural roads (DRR)           90/10
 2(b)iii Upgrading       of     TY   IDA/GOLP         P        Achieved ­ in three phase
         training centre             90/10                     expansion
 2(c)    Upgrading     of   various  IDA/GOL 90       NIL      Reduced out at Mid term
         roads (RB)                  90/10                     review ­ some done with EDF
                                                               funds
 3       Equipment                   IDA     P        P        Laboratory equipment, vehicles
                                                               and     computer      equipment
                                                               acquired

 4(e)    Engineering Services for    IDA    P         P        All   feasibility  and   design
         upgrading                                             services complete
 4(c)i   Consultants services for
         capacity building:
                        Policy dev.  GOL     P        P        Draft Policy Review Document
                                                               in process
              Planning & program     IDA     P        P        Completed in Transport Sector
                                                               Program ­ monitoring required
                   Manpower dev.                               Deferred pending restructuring
                                                               of Ministry
                       Road Safety   EDF              P        Under taken with EDF funds
 4(c)ii  Consultants services for
         Institutional Dev
                  PVPS privatised    GOL     P        P        Completed
            Heavy plant auctioned    GOL     P        P        Completed
                                 off
           Road Fund Established     GOL     P        P        Completed ­ refinement of RF
                   and operational                             procedures continuing
           Allocations from Road     GOL     US$      US$ 21m  Road Fund to be strengthened
                      Fund to road           10m      LSL140m  to handle all road maintenance.
                       maintenance           LSL
                                             70m
           Streamline structure for  GOL              P        Labour Construction Unit &
                     road agencies                             Civil Works Section merged to
                                                               form   Department     of  Rural
                                                               Roads
               Feasibility study for IDA     P        P        NRA set up study completed ­
               roads sector reform                             Steering Committee set up
            Road Fund assessment     IDA     P        P        Study to strengthen Road Fund
                                                               carried out
In terms of practical achievement the RRMP was successful in implementing most of the



                                               - 20 -

programme as restructured during the Mid Term Review. The civil works completed have
already contributed extensively to the objectives of reducing transport costs and improving
accessibility. Major steps were achieved in institutional reform and capacity building, which
should continue in the future to bring to conclusion the objective of commercialising road
management and privatising road construction and maintenance operations as far as possible. The
achievement of the establishment of the Road Fund needs to be followed up to ensure this is
operating effectively, and that funding for road maintenance is increased, channelled through the
Road Fund and managed in the best possible way.

·       Major Factors affecting RRMP
The civil unrest experienced in Lesotho during 1998 and the fluctuating exchange rates were the
main external factors affecting the RRMP.          Within the RRMP itself better budget/contract
monitoring by implementing agencies and the Project Coordination Office could have allowed
fuller use of the Credit. These factors negatively affected the implementation and the outcome of
the project, the first by adding to the delays during the first part of the RRMP and the other two
by preventing complete disbursement of the full Credit towards the end of the Project.

·       Summary of Sustainability
All aspects of the institutional reform, capacity building and civil works that were completed
under the RRMP are sustainable. Concern about reducing resources for road maintenance are
being investigated, and monitoring of a sustainable work load for newly trained small scale
contractors will be carried out, to ensure the positive aspects of the Project are sustained into the
future.

·       Summary of Bank and Borrower Performance
By the conclusion of the RRMP good co-operation between the IDA and the Ministry was
achieved. The early problems of the Project could be partially attributed, on the IDA side, to
unrealistic expectation for the pace of policy reform leading to unattainable conditionalities,
frequent change of staff on Task Teams ­ especially the Task Team Leaders, a major
misunderstanding on the work to be undertaken on the Maseru Roads rehabilitation contract,
which also resulted in a lack of confidence and understanding between IDA staff and the Ministry,
and a lack of explanation by IDA staff, of full procedures or requirements for specific aspects,
when discussing these aspects.

From the Government of Lesotho side the performance could be said to have included poor
attainment of targets, especially policy change targets, a lack of planning for the full procurement
procedures, continued loss of trained and experienced staff resulting in a capacity constraint, a
lack of full understanding of the latest IDA procedures, which was compounded by engaging
consultants who were not fully aware of IDA procedures, and the initial assignment of the Project
Coordinator position to the Director of Planning position, resulting in overloading of this person.

·       Summary of Lesson Learnt
Several important lessons were derived from the experience of implementing the RRMP. These
included the need to realistically estimate times for policy changes and other implementation
processes, the need for more comprehensive project planning to include every step of the process,



                                                 - 21 -

that contracting out road works is the preferred way of completing the work, that transfer of skills
from Technical Assistants needs to be more effectively followed up, that a TEAM effort from
IDA, Project Coordination and Implementing agency alike needs to be made, especially in having
good clear communication. From the funding side co-financing with other donors was not really
successful and parallel financing, coordinated by the Government, would be preferable. On
sustainability the need for the Road Fund to become the source of all road maintenance funds
appears to be important and for the emerging (newly trained) contractors, continuity of work
needs to be made available to give them a sustainable lively hood.

·      Summary of Re-estimation of Economic Values
The B47 road appears to be on the threshold of being economically justified. However the traffic
on and around these roads has not yet settled into patterns to benefit from new facilities, due to
very recent completion of construction.        All the other roads indicate that the projects are
economically viable.     The Maseru Roads, generally being rehabilitation works are very
economically viable, even in spite of increased costs.

Rural road upgrading and rehabilitation projects were not subjected to economic evaluation, but
were well justified under the criteria use to select these projects.




                                                 - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Road Fund procedures operational and Road 100%                                   100%
Board secretariat in place.
Allocation of US$ 10 million equivalent from  US$10million                       Achieved on cumulative basis
Road Fund to different categories of roads on
basis of acceptable criteria.
Implementation of programming procedures      100%                               100%
at the MOW's level by the Planning Unit.
Establishment and implementation in all road 100%                                100%
agencies of contract monitoring procedures.
Elaboration of a detailed action plan for     100%                               60%
phasing out force account units
Privatization scheme of the PVPS              100%                               100%
mechanical workshop implemented.
All heavy plant pool equipment auctioned off. 100%                               100%
65 (50 small labor-based local contractors,   65                                 100%
and 15 medium-size) contractors qualified.
Elaboration of a manpower development plan. 100%                                 100%
First phase of road safety and axle-load      100%                               100%
control action plans implemented.
Environmental guidelines and design           100%                               100%
standards study completed.
New regulations for roads reclassification    100%                               100%
and gazetting enacted
Study to strengthen the Road Fund and         100%                               100%
assess the options to create an independant
Road Authority completed.
First beneficiary assessment surveys          100%                               100%
(including gender issues) conducted.
Completion of the rehabilitation of 4 major
trunk roads around Maseru.
Completion of 150 km of rehabilitation of     150 km                             140 km
gravel roads.
Completion of 300 km of the periodic          300 km                             315 km
maintenance program.
4040 km of roads under routine maintenance 3500                                  5,098 km
(50% by local contractors).
85 % of primary paved roads and 70% of        85% paved and 70% gravel           80% and 60% respectively
gravel roads in good and fair condition.
Cumulative training of 50 MOW staff.          50
                                                                                 100%


Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                              - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)

                       Component                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage
                                                         Estimate   Estimate      of Appraisal

A. Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance

      Upgrading                                                30.9          26.8          87%
      Rehabilitation                                           13.4          23.7        177%
      Periodic Maintenance                                     24.5           2.6          10%
      Routine maintenance-Road Fund + GOL 100%                 24.6          54.2        220%

B. Engineering Services

      Detailed Design and Feasibility for Upgrading             1.2          10.7        890%
      Feasibility/Assessment                                    0.8           0.7          87%
      Design and Supervision                                    2.2           1.4          62%

C. Institutional Reform and Capacity Building

      Institutional Reform                                      7.6           0.2           3%
      Capacity Building                                         5.8           4.0          69%
      Logistics                                                 0.9           0.4          49%

D. Contingencies

      Physical Contingencies                                    9.8           0.0           0%
      Price contingencies                                       7.3           0.0           0%

      TOTAL                                                   129.0         124.6          97%

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ equivalent)
     Expenditure Category             ICB        NCB         Other      NBF      Total cost


1. Works                                19.3        13.6         3.4       75.1       111.4
                                       (15.3)        (9.1)      (1.5)                 (25.9)

2. Goods                                  0.5                    0.6        1.1         2.2
                                         (0.5)                  (0.4)                  (0.9)

3.Consulting Servoces                                           13.0        0.9        13.9
                                                               (13.0)                 (13.0)

4. Operating Expenditures                                                   1.5        15.0



Total                                   19.8        13.6        17.0       78.6       129.0
                                       (15.8)        (9.1)     (15.1)                 (40.0)




                                                 - 24 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ equivalent)
      Expenditure Category                   ICB      NCB          Other         NFB      Total cost

1. Works                                       14.3        9.1                       83.8      107.3
                                              (10.0)      (6.0)                                (16.0)

2. Goods                                                                0.4                       0.4
                                                                       (0.4)                     (0.4)

3. Consulting Services                          3.3        2.4          0.8          10.4       16.9
                                               (3.3)      (2.4)        (0.8)                     (6.5)

4. Operating Expendures                                                                           0.0



5. Logistics                                                                         0.1          0.1



Total                                          14.3       11.5          1.2          94.3      101.7
                                              (13.4)      (8.4)        (1.2)                   (22.9)
Figures in Prenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA
Figures may not add up due to rounding
Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
                   Component                    Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
                                                 IDA  Govt.   CoF  IDA    Govt.   CoF.   Bank    Govt.    CoF.

A. Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance            25.6 49.0    22.8 16.0   61.92     29.3  63%    126%      129%

B. Engineering Services                            4.6    0       0 2.3    0.000        0  51%       0%       0%

C. Institutional Reform and Capacity Building      9.8    0     1.9 4.6    0.398     10.0  47%       0%     526%

D. Logistics                                                               0.069

TOTAL                                             40.0 49.0    24.7 22.9    62.4     39.3  57%    127%      159%
Note: (local funding commitment not clear from appraisal report. The $49 million amount includes all
intended contributions.)




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis shown here rely on borrowers traffic counts and calculation of rate of
returns.

Economic analysis of the main road segments to be improved under the project was undertaken at
appraisal. The results are shown in the tables below. The first table shows a comparison of traffic
volumes estimated in SAR, then estimated upon detailed design, and for six out of the nine main
road segments actual traffic following 2003 traffic count.

Much of the work done under the RRMP, especially by the Department of Rural Roads was not
based upon purely economic justification. A full report of the socio-economic impacts of certain
of these roads has been compiled. The road upgrading and rehabilitation undertaken was justified
on the criteria that were used to determine which roads should be done. The measures of change
in fundamental factors such as indicators of the extent of poverty and school attendance etc, was
clouded by a lack of baseline data.

The SAR has a table in Annex N that indicates the traffic on certain of the economically viable
roads identified in the project. Comparison of these traffic figures with the latest traffic counts
available is given in Table 1.
                     Table 1 Comparison of Estimated and Actual Traffic
                                                           Economic
Road Name/Identification          SAR Estimate        Evaluation Estimate 2003 Traffic Count
                                   1995 traffic         Year 1= 2001
B43                                     412                    612                    588
B47                                     412                    275                    382
B42                                     412                    466                   N/A


                                  SAR Estimate         Design Estimate        2003 Traffic Count
A10 Kingsway                           5239                   7549                   7444
A6 Moshoeshoe                          5239                   6959                   17751
A8&A1Lakeside Thabong                  5239                   7452                   N/A
A1                                     5239                    N/A                   N/A
A7 Pioneer                             5239                   4001                   6150
A2 Airport                             5239                   6922                   6499

The SAR used very broad averages of traffic, recording these to be same on all the roads in the
two groups of projects considered (urban and rural). The levels of traffic on Maseru Roads are
considerably higher than the levels quoted in the SAR. They are however not significantly
different to those used in the design study for the rehabilitation of these roads, except in the case
of Moshoeshoe Road, which has increased considerably.

The construction costs for the two projects considered in the SAR did vary from the original



                                                 - 26 -

estimates, and are compared in Table 2.
            Table 2 Comparison of estimated and actual costs of RRMP Roads
Road Name/Identification SAR Estimate Econ Eval. Est           Actual cost       % increase
                                 1995             1998             2003
B43                          Not recorded      51,948,000       64,089,709
B47                          Not recorded      53,618,000       66,150,035
B42                          Not recorded      44,386,000       54,760,257
B42, B43 & B47                                149,952,000      185,000,000           23


MASERU ROADS                     SAR           Design Est.     Actual Cost
A10 Kingsway                 Not recorded      10,467,600       17,622,267           68
A6 Moshoeshoe                Not recorded      10,574,300       14,051,233           33
A8&A1Lakeside Thabong        Not recorded       5,436,200        7,471,976           37
A1                           Not recorded           0               0
A7 Pioneer                   Not recorded       1,096,700        1,644,420           50
A2 Airport                   Not recorded       8,532,700       13,364,280           57

This table shows some increase in costs on all the components of the RRMP that were considered
in the SAR. The costs could be generally considered to be in line with inflation, except for works
on Kingsway, Pioneer Road and Airport road. For the Kingsway and Airport Road rehabilitations
the increases were mainly due to an element of improvements later introduced.

The source of information used for the SAR is not known and could not be traced. However a
simplified economic model was built, which gives some indication of the likely economic value of
the projects concerned. This simplified model is estimated to be conservative. These are shown
in Table 3.




                                              - 27 -

         Table 3 Comparison of original and post construction estimates of IRR
                                                        Economic
                                                        Evaluation        Post Construction
Road Name/Identification           SAR Estimate         Estimate              Estimate
                                    IRR % (1995)       IRR % (1998)         IRR% (2003)
B43                                    84.00              29.22                13.35%
B27                                   199.00               N/A                    N/A
B47                                    87.00              13.34                10.09%
B42                                    84.00              23.28                   N/A


A10 Kingsway                           92.00               N/A                 27.08%
A6 Moshoeshoe                          73.00               N/A                 73.07%
A8&A1Lakeside Thabong                 133.00               N/A                    N/A
A1                                     65.00               N/A                    N/A
A7 Pioneer                             53.00               N/A                 47.78%
A2 Airport                             26.00               N/A                 50.05%

The SAR estimate of rates of return seemed to be on the high side, especially for the B42, B43
and B47 roads and showed a much lower IRR at economic evaluation during design. The model
used indicates that with a traffic growth of 2% the B43 and B47 roads show a return of 13.35%
and 10.09%. If traffic grows at 4% this would improve to 15.14% and 11.87%. The figures for
the B47 are slightly below the normal threshold of 12%, but the recent opening of the road has
not let true traffic figures settle down as yet.

The figures for the Maseru Roads show that, in spite of the increase in costs, all the roads are well
above the threshold of viability of 12% IRR. The returns indicate that the extra investments in
Kingsway and Airport Road were well worthwhile.

3.5     Summary of Recalculation of Economic Indicators
The B47 road appears to be on the threshold of being economically justified. However the traffic
on and around these roads has not yet settled into patterns to benefit from new facilities, due to
very recent completion of construction. All the other roads indicate that the projects are
economically viable. The Maseru Roads, generally being rehabilitation works are very
economically viable, even in spite of increased costs.

Rural road upgrading and rehabilitation projects were not subjected too economic evaluation, but
were well justified under the socio-economic criteria used to select these projects.




                                                 - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/27/1991                2    Economist, Financial Analyst
              03/1993                   2    Highway Engineer, Financial
                                             Analyst
              10/14/1993                2    Highway Engineer, Procurement
                                             Expert
              03/1994                   1    Highway Engineer
              06/02/1994                1    Highway Engineer
              10/1994                   1    Highway Engineer
              02/09/1995                1    Highway Engineer
              04/14/1995                8    Highway Engineer (2), Financial
                                             Analyst, Economist, Civil
                                             Engineer, Pavement
                                             Management Specialist, Utilities
                                             Reg. Specialist, Human Resource
                                             Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/03/1995                7    Highway Engineer (2),
                                             Financial Analyst,
                                             Economist, Civil Engineer,
                                             Pavement Management
                                             Specialist, Lawyer


 Supervision
              06/24/1996                                                          S               S
              10/05/1996                1    SR OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)            S               S
              02/07/1997                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      S               S
              06/30/1997                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                     S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1)
              12/12/1997                1    ENGINEER (1)                         S               S
              03/18/1998                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                     S               S
                                             ENGINEER (2)
              02/12/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                     S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); FORMER
                                             TEAM LEADER (1)
              05/28/1999                2    SNR. ECONOMIST (1);                  S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              01/28/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                     U               U
                                             ENGINEER (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              07/14/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                     U               U
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)



                                              - 29 -

               01/26/2001                    1    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)                U    U
               03/25/2001                    1    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)                U    U
               08/02/2001                    3    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);                 S    S
                                                  MISSION LEADER (1);
                                                  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                  (1)
               02/16/2002                    2    TTL/ECONOMIST (1); CIVIL              S    S
                                                  ENGINEERING (1)
               06/21/2002                    3    TEAM LEADER/ECONOMIST                 S    S
                                                  (1); TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                                  (1); CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
               03/20/2003                    4    TTL (1); TRANSPORT                    S    S
                                                  SPECIALIST (1);
                                                  PROCUREMENT (1);
                                                  HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
               11/14/2003                    8    TTL (1); PAS (1); FMS (1);            S    S
                                                  Social Scientist (1); Engineer (1);
                                                  Environment (2); Operations (1)


 ICR
               02/04                         2     ICR Consultant, Operations           S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   72.0                            221.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        38.6                            151.4
  Supervision                                 140.4                            660.2
  ICR
  Total                                       251.0                           1032.7
Supervision includes ICR as this information is not recorded separately.




                                                   - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

For the preparation of this ICR, IEP supervision reports and PSR/590 were reviewed. From the RRMP
documentation, appraisal and other preparatory aide memoire were studied as well as relevant legal
documents, including minutes of negotiations. The SAR for RRMP was reviewed and all supervision
reports. Finally, selected studies were consulted, principally among those the SMEC report on "National
Road Authority Setup" and the Africon "Review of the Projected Road Maintenance Needs and the
Generation of Road Fund Revenues."




                                                     - 33 -

- 34 -

