Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2857 LSO
                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
              (ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT)
                               between
                         KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
                                 and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated July 16, 1996
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2857 LSO
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 1996, between the KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B) the Association has received a letter, dated December 12, 1995,
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to restructure the Borrower's roads sector and to
increase its efficiency (hereinafter referred to as the Program), and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of such Program;
      (C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Republic of Ireland
(RI) and the European Union (EU) grants in a total amount equivalent to
about $19,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in each of the respective grant agreements (the
Financing Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and RI
and EU, respectively; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
Page  2
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
      "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
      no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in
      the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank
      or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
      territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or
      entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import,
      to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the
      United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
      Charter of the United Nations.".
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)  "MOW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works;
      (b)  "MHA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Home Affairs;
      (c)  "CWS" means the Civil Works Section of the MHA responsible
for carrying out maintenance operations for rural roads;
      (d)  "FCMU" means the Financial and Contracts Management Unit
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (e) "Road Fund" means the Road Fund referred to in Section 3.04
of this Agreement, established by Legal Notice No. 179, dated December
7, 1995 and regulated by legal notice 16, dated February 15, 1996 of
the Borrower;
      (f)  "Maloti" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (g)  "NRB" means the National Road Board established by Legal
Notice No. 16 dated February 15, 1996 of the Borrower;
      (h)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (i)  "PVPS" means the Plant and Vehicle Pool Services, a unit
within MOW responsible for maintaining and repairing the Borrower's
vehicles and road maintenance equipment;
      (j)  "PCC" means the Project Coordination Committee established
by the Principal Secretary, Central Planning and Development Office,
through a letter No. CPO/4/014, dated April 29, 1996, of the Borrower;
      (k)  "Project Implementation Manual" and "PIM" means the manual
describing the Project reporting and monitoring procedures, plans and
other implementation arrangements and specifying the performance
indicators to be followed in assessing the progress achieved in the
execution of the Project;
      (l)  "Training Program" means the program referred to in Section
6.01 (d) iii of this Agreement and designed to train MOW staff members
and subsequently reassign them in appropriate positions within MOW;
      (m)  "Gazetted Road" means any road duly comprised within the
roads classification established under the Roads Act No. 24, dated
April 24, 1969, of the Borrower; and
Page  3
      (n)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 26,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
      (c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15,
2006, and ending January 15, 2036. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 2016, shall be one percent (1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider
Page  4
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
      (c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOW, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative, environmental and highway engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, including the Project Implementation Manual.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for
the future operation of the Project; and
      (b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Road
Fund under terms and conditions which shall be at all times satis-
factory to the Association; (b) take all measures required on its part
to ensure that the level of the various road users fees to be channeled
into the Road Fund are promptly adjusted from time to time in
accordance with financial parameters and forecasts included in PIM and
agreed upon with the Association to secure the availability of all
funds required for the diligent carrying out of roads maintenance and
rehabilitation operations; and (c) ensure that the proceeds of the
Road Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of defraying the cost
Page  5
of expenditures incurred for road maintenance and rehabilitation
operations in the territory of the Borrower.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1997: (a) prepare
and submit to the Association, for its review and comments, a draft
manpower development action plan and a draft reorganization plan to
restructure MOW; (b) carry out the studies referred to under Parts B.1;
B.2 and C.3 of the Project and submit the results and recommendations
of the said studies, as soon as they become available, to the Asso-
ciation for its review and comments; (c) take into account the comments
and recommendations made by the Association; (d) promptly restructure
MOW in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and (e) implement the
recommendations of the studies referred to in paragraph (b) above in
accordance with a timetable and in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
      Section 3.06. Before undertaking any new investment for road
construction estimated to cost more than $5 million equivalent, the
Borrower shall: (a) carry out: (i) a detailed design study, under
terms of reference agreed upon with the Association, aimed, inter
alia, at demonstrating that the proposed investment has an economic
rate of return of at least 12 percent; and (ii) an environmental
impact assessment; (b) promptly review the results of the said design
study with the Association; and (c) unless otherwise agreed upon with
the Association, shall not undertake any proposed road investment
which shows an economic rate of return of less than 12 percent.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall not carry any activity relating
to the execution of Part A.3 (b) and A.4 before April 1, 1998 unless
funds deposited in the Road Fund have reached a total aggregate amount
of 44,000,000 Maloti.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                   graph (a) of this Section including those for the
                   Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months after
                   the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                   the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                   such scope and in such detail as the Association
                   shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                   with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
Page  6
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                   Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                   bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
                   in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                   this Section and that the report of such audit
                   contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                   whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                   during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
                   cedures and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                     Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a) a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
      (b) Legal Notice No. 179, dated December 7, 1995, establishing
the Road Fund or legal Notice No. 16 dated February 15, 1996,
regulating the  operations of the Road Fund of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
      (c)    (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                   of any grant made to the Borrower for the financ-
                   ing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                   canceled or terminated in whole or in part,
                   pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
                   therefor.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
                   if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
                   the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
                   lation or termination is not caused by the failure
                   of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                   under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for
                   the Project are available to the Borrower from
                   other sources on terms and conditions consistent
                   with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the
event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Financing Agreements have been fulfilled, other than those related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
Page  7
      (b) the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual
acceptable to the Association;
      (c) the Borrower has allocated in its budget for fiscal year
1996/1997 adequate funds for road maintenance operations in the
amounts agreed upon with the Association;
      (d) the Borrower has: (i) transferred the responsibility for
maintaining rural roads from MLG to MOW; (ii) submitted an action
plan satisfactory to the Association for the restructuring and
privatization of PVPS; and (iii) adopted a training program satis-
factory to the Association; and
      (e) the Borrower has: (i) recruited the Financial Manager, the
Contracts Manager, the Accountant and the Financial Controller
Officer referred to in paragraph 2 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement referred to in paragraph 2 (d) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (iii) appointed the Project
Coordinator referred to in paragraph 2 (d) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 395
            Maseru 100
            Kingdom of Lesotho
                                            Telex:
                                            4367 LO
                                            4429 LO
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                   INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
Page  8
                   By /s/ Eunice Bulane
                                          Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                   Amount of the
                                     Credit                  % of
                                    Allocated            Expenditures
                                  (Expressed in              to be
Category                         SDR Equivalent)           Financed
(1) Civil works for periodic
    maintenance under
    Part A.1 of the Project:
   (a)  through December 1997        750,000              50%
   (b)  through December 1999        400,000              20%
(2) Civil works for rehabilita-
    tion and upgrading:
   (a)  under Part A.2
        of the Project             5,400,000              70%
   (b)  under Part A.3 (a)
        and A.5 of the Project     4,150,000              90%
   (c)  under Part A.3 (b)
        and A.4 of the Project      4,550,000             90%
(3)  Equipment, vehicles
     and materials                    600,000             100%
(4)  Consultants' services          7,700,000            100%
(5)  Unallocated                    3,250,000
                                   __________
         TOTAL                     26,800,000
                                   ==========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement.
3.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods and services under contracts not exceeding $100,000, and for
works under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent, under such
Page  9
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist the Borrower in
its efforts to sustain economic growth, inter alia, by generating new
employment through the rehabilitation and maintenance of road transport
infrastructure throughout the territory of the Borrower; and (b)
strengthen the Borrower's capacity to plan, program and execute public
investments in the road sector and to mobilize, in an efficient manner,
adequate internal funding required for the purpose.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Works
1.    Carrying out of periodic maintenance on a total of: (a) about
1,900 km of gazetted roads; and (b) about 1,050 km of rural roads.
2.    Carrying out of works required to rehabilitate a total of: (a)
about 200 km of selected gazetted roads; and (b) about 200 km of rural
roads.
3.    Upgrading of: (a) selected rural roads; and (b) main gravel
roads.
4.    Paving of about 90 km of selected gravel roads.
5.    Rehabilitation of the Teyateyaneng Training Center.
Part B:     Engineering Services
1.    Carrying out of feasibility and detailed design studies for
selected roads to be upgraded: (a) from gravel to paved standards; and
(b) from earth to gravel standards.
2.    Carrying out of engineering studies required for: (a) selected
roads to be rehabilitated under Part A of the Project; and (b) the
repair and maintenance of selected bridges.
Part C:     Institutional Development and Capacity Building
1.    Strengthening MOW's institutional capacity through the provision
of technical advisory services and training to: (a) formulate and
execute appropriate policies required to sustain the development of
road transport infrastructures and to maintain them in good operating
conditions; (b) plan, program and execute investments and roads
maintenance operations on a regular schedule; (c) formulate and execute
a manpower development plan; and (d) promote road safety, inter alia,
through an efficient enforcement of traffic regulations and axle-load
controls.
2.    Streamlining the organizational structure of MOW with a view to
entrusting full responsibility for the execution and supervision of roads
construction and maintenance works to a single ministry through the
provision of technical advisory services.
3.    Carrying out of: (a) a feasibility study to establish a parastatal
entity responsible for carrying out road construction and maintenance
works; and (b) selected studies to: (i) assess the performance of the
Road Fund; (ii) streamline the legal and regulatory framework of the
road sector; and (iii) establish procedures and operational manuals
setting forth technical and environmental protection standards to be
followed in designing and supervising the execution of road works.
4.    Strengthening the operations and management of the Road Fund.
Page  10
5.    Training of MOW's staff responsible for carrying out their
respective parts of the Project in technical fields relevant for the
purposes of the Project.
Part D:     Small Contractors' Capacity Building
      Formulation and implementation of a scheme designed to promote and
sustain the development of a local capacity needed to ensure the main-
tenance and upgrading of roads infrastructure through the use of suitable
contracting-out arrangements.
                                * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be pro-
cured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Dispute Review Board
      Each contract for works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or
more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth
in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph
2.12 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more
each and contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Procurement from UN Agencies
      Contracts for vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000,
may be procured from the United Nations Inter Agency Procurement Service
Organization in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the
Guidelines.
2.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract,
and up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,100,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.    National Shopping
Page  11
      Contracts for office and training equipment estimated to cost less
than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.    Procurement of Small Works
      Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association,
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work,
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procure-
ment plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment
of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection
of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equi-
valent or above.
Page  12
                             SCHEDULE 4
                       Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)  take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project is
carried out in conformity with the PIM and shall not make any change to
the PIM which would materially or adversely affect the execution of the
Project; and
      (b)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.    For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a) maintain: (i) NRB (as an advisory council on road maintenance
programming including the participation of road users) with membership,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and (ii)
FCMU with staff in adequate numbers and whose qualifications and
experience shall be at all times satisfactory to the Association. Such
staff shall include a Financial Manager, a Contracts Manager, an
Accountant and a Financial Controller; and
      (b) maintain PCC with membership and functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association. PCC shall be headed at all times by a
Project Coordinator whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall:
      (a) prepare and submit annual investment and road maintenance
programs and draft budgets related thereto for each fiscal year by
March 31 of each year to the Association for its review and comments;
and
      (b) carry out the said programs in accordance with the timetable
agreed upon with the Association;
4.    Not later than March 31, 1998, the Borrower shall carry out jointly
with the Association, a comprehensive mid-term review to assess the
progress achieved in the execution of the Project.
      (a)  Without any limitation to the generality of the foregoing, the
review shall cover the implementation and management aspects of the
Project, including policy reforms, the performance and use of the
technical assistance personnel, the role of national counterpart staff,
the status and results of training, reporting accounting and audit
performance, disbursement and procurement procedures, the functioning
and the level of amounts deposited in the Road Fund, the progress
achieved in building local small contractors' capacity and the overall
sustainability of the Project.
      (b)  Not later than thirty days (30) days prior to the said mid-
term review, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in implement-
ing the various components of the Project, and a draft action plan
containing proposals for remedying identified deficiencies.
      (c)  The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter: (i) prepare and adopt
an action plan, acceptable to the Association, based on the recommen-
dations stemming from the aforementioned review; and (ii) thereafter,
carry out the said action plan for the remaining period of Project
implementation.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
Page  13
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                   for deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                   paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                   payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                   Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
                   draw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                   Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                   have requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid out
                   of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
Page  14
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
      (b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c) if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) providesuch additional 
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such out-
standing amount.
      (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
