                                                     E1943 v6


Proponent:         The United Republic of Tanzania

Submitted to: National Environment Management Council
                  P.O. Box 63154, Dar es Salaam

 COUNTRY ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
    (CESA) FOR SAFEGUARDING AND DISPOSAL OF
        OBSOLETE PESTICIDES IN TANZANIA




         March 26, 2012

Consultant:
Niras Finland Oy
P.O.Box 23070
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
www.niras.com
                           ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The CESA study team wishes to extend sincere thanks to everyone who supported this
study in one way or another. We would especially like to acknowledge invaluable
assistance, unconditional support and hospitality extended by NEMC officials, ASP – P1
Tanzania staff, and residents as well as leaders of the communities living in the project
areas. To all of you we say thank you very much. Asante sana!




                                           ii
iii
           ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

ADO        Agriculture Development Officer
ARI        Agriculture Research Institute
ASP        Africa Stockpiles Programme
CBO        Community Based Organization
CESA       Country Environmental and Social Assessment
CGC        Chief Government Chemist
CSOs       Civil Society Organisations
DALDO      District Agriculture and Livestock Development Officer
DED        District Executive Director
DMD        Disaster Management Department
DNA        Designated National Authority
DoE        Department of Environment
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS        Environmental Impact Statement
EMA        Environment Management Act
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
ESIA       Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organisation
GCAs       Game Controlled Areas
GCLA       Government Chemist Laboratory Agency
GEF        Global Environment Facility
GRs        Game Reserves
GTZ        German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency
           Syndrome
IMDG       International Maritime Dangerous Goods
IMO        International Maritime Organisation




                                   iv
KATC       Kilimanjaro Agricultural Training College
MAB-GCLA   Ministerial Advisory Board of the Government Chemist
           Laboratory Agency
MAFS&C     Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives
MCC        Main Collection Centres
MLYD       Ministry of Labour and Youth Development
MNRT       Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
MoF        Ministry of Finance
NEMC       National Environment Management Council
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
NORAD      Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NPs        National Parks
NSGRP      National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty
OP         Obsolute Pesticides
OSHA       Occupational Safety and Health Authority
PMU        Project Management Unit
PIC        Prior Informed Consent
PMP        Pest Management Plan
PPA        Plant Protection Act
POPRC      Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee
POPs       Persistent Organic Pollutants
PSMS       Pesticide Stock Management System
R&D        Research and Development
RSA        Republic of South Africa
SAF        Stakeholder Advisory Forum
SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
SME        Small and Medium Enterprises
SUMATRA    Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority
TANAPA     Tanzania National Parks Authority
TBA        Tanzania Building Agency
TBS        Tanzania Bureau of Standards



                                     v
TCB    Tanzania Cotton Board
TPRI   Tropical Pesticides Research Institute
UN     United Nations
UNEP   United Nations Environment Programme
URT    United Republic of Tanzania
VEO    Village Executive Officer
VPO    Vice President’s Office
WB     World Bank
WHO    World Health Organisation




                                 vi
TABLE OF CONTENT                                                                                       Page

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ……………………………………………………………..……..............                                                  ii
STUDY TEAM ……………………………………………………………………………….............                                                    iii
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS ……………………………………………………………                                                        iv
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ……………………………………………………………….. ………...                                                      xiii


CHAPTER ONE            …………………………………………………………………………………                                                     1
1.0 INTRODUCTION…………………………………………………………………………………                                                            1
1.1 Background ……………………………………………………………………………………….................                                          1
1.2 Components of ASP Project in Tanzania ……………………………………….………………………...                                     2
1.3 Management of the Project …………………………………………………………………………………                                              2
1.4 Rationale for conducting CESA ………………………………………………….…………….................                               3
1.5 Objectives of CESA ………………………………………………………….……………………………….                                                3
1.6 Methodology ………………………………………………………………………………………………….                                                     4

CHAPTER TWO …………………………………………………………………………………….                                                              7
2.0 COUNTRY SETTING ……………………………………………………………………………                                                          7
2.1 Location and climate ……………………………………………………………………………….............                                       7
2.2 Relief ……………………………………………………………………………….………………………….                                                      9
2.3 Hydrology …………………………………………………………………………..…………………………                                                    10
2.4 Lakes, Oceans and Wetlands …………………………………………………………………...................                               12
2.5 Wetlands …………………………………………………………………………………… ………………..                                                    13
2.6 Groundwater ………………………………………………………………………………………………….                                                    14
2.7 Flora and Fauna ……………………………………………………………………………………………..                                                 16
2.8 Wildlife resources ……………………………………………………………………………………………                                                17
2.9 Social Economic Aspects ……………………………………………………………………………………                                              22
2.10 Hospital Facilities ……………………………………………………………………………...................                                 29

CHAPTER THREE …………………………………………………………………………………                                                             30
3.0 POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK …………………………………..                                             30
3.1 Sectoral Policies ……………………………………………………………………………………………..                                               30
3.2 Legal Framework ……………………………………………………………………………………………                                                   35
3.3 World Bank’s Environmental and Social Safeguard Requirements …………………………………..                          52
3.4 National Strategies/Programmes …………………………………………………………………………..                                         53
3.5 International Conventions …………………………………………………………………………………..                                           54
3.6 Institutional Framework for Environmental Management in Tanzania ………………...................            58
3.7 Institutional and Implementation Arrangements for Project Implementation ……………………….                   62
3.8 Involvement of the Stakeholders ……………………………………………………………………………                                         63

CHAPTER FOUR ………………………………………………………………………………… ..                                                           65
4.0 BASELINE DATA ……………..………………………………………………..……………….                                                      65
4.1 Characterisation of Obsolete Pesticide Stocks and Sites ……………………………………………….                           65
4.2 Previous Waste Management and Pesticide Disposal Initiatives ……………………………………...                        69
4.3 PSMS Data Related to Pesticide Stores ……………………………………….……………...................                        72
4.4 Assessment of Capacity for a National Safeguarding Operation ………….……………....................           91
4.5 Assessment of Current National Transport, Treatment and Disposal Capacity ………...................      93

CHAPTER FIVE …………………………………………………………………………………....                                                          98
5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS …………………………………………….…                                             98
5.1 Introduction ……………………………… ………………………………… ……………………..……...                                          98
5.2 Obsolete Pesticides in Tanzania ……………… ……………………………………………..................                       99
5.3 Impacts as per existing conditions of the stores ……………… ………………………………….……                         99
5.4 Disposal Operation Impact…………………..………………………………………..............................                 127
5.5 Views and Concerns of Local Communities on Obsolete Pesticides ...……………….....................   127
5.6 Impacts on natural habitats ………………………………………………………………………..……...                                  130

CHAPTER SIX …………………………………………………………..…………………………                                                      131
6.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP) ……………..…………………….. …...                                      131
6.1 General Context ……………………………………………………………..……………………………….                                          131
6.2 Objective ………………………………………………………………………………………………………                                               132
6.3 Environmental Management Plan Background and Considerations …………………………..…….                     132
6.4 Mitigation Measures for Current impacts ………………………………………………..………………                              133
6.5 Strategy ………………………………………………………………………………………………………..                                              134
6.6 Safeguarding Impacts …………………………………………………………………….…………………                                         139
6.7 Safeguarding Management Aspects ……………………………………………………………………….                                    143
6.8 Adopted Implementation Strategy ………………………………………………………………………….                                   152

CHAPTER SEVEN …………………………………………………………………….……………………….                                                 159
7.0 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES ……………………………………………….…………………….…….                                        159
7.1 Pesticide Safeguarding Alternatives ……………………………………………………………………….                                159
7.2 Pesticide Transport Means Alternatives …………………………………………………………………..                              161
7.3 Pesticide and Empty Containers Disposal Alternatives …………………………………....................          164
7.4 Cost Considerations for OP Safeguarding and Disposal Options …………….………………………                    167
7.5 Comparisons of Options for the Involvement of PMU and contractor in OP management Aspects       168

CHAPTER EIGHT ……………………………………………………………………….…………………….                                                 170
8.0 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MONITORING PLAN ……………………………………                                         170
8.1 Overview ………………………………………………………………………………………………………                                                170
8.2 Project Team Monitoring and Reporting …………………………………………………………………                                 176
8.3Monitoring of the PMU ………………………………………………………………………………………                                          177

CHAPTER NINE ………………………………………………………………………………………………..                                                 178
9.0 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING REQUIREMENT ….                                 178

BIBLIOGRSPHY AND REFERENCES ………………………………………………………….............                                     180

APPENDICES …………………………………………………………………………………………………...                                                 182
APPENDIX 4.1 Results Of DDT Analysis Of Water Samples From Obsolete Pesticides
               Storage Sites ………………………………………………………. ………………..                                        182
APPENDIX 4.2 Detailed Data On Distribution Of Pesticides Per Physical State And
               Package Type ………………………………………………………………………...                                          182
APPENDIX 6.1 Road Transportation Routes ………………………………………………………....                                   188
APPENDIX 6.2 Site Sketches for the Selected MCCs ……………………………………………..…                               193
APPENDIX 8.1 Sequence of Daily Briefing Activities at the Field Level and Forms ………..............   198
Appendix A: Environmental Assessment and EMP for Sulphur Stockpile in Tanga………………….                 211
Appendix B: Terms of References for CESA and EMP ………………………………………………                                 218




                                                  viii
List of Tables:

Table 2.1    Major Wetlands of Tanzania
Table 2.2    Main landuse/cover types
Table 2.3    Condition of trunk and regional roads Tanzania (December 2005)
Table 2.4    Types of health facilities in the country
Table 4.1a   Status of 22 sites surveyed for pesticide contaminated soil
Table 4.1b   Profiles of nine (9) high and medium priority pesticide contaminated sites
Table 4.2    Summary of PSMS extract as of March 9, 2010
Table 4.3    Pesticide stores and corresponding Fp and Fe data
Table 4.4    Profile of pesticides toxicity (WHO class)
Table 4.5    Types of Pesticides
Table 4.6    Distribution of pesticides per physical state and package type
Table 4.7    Identification of hazards
Table 4.8    Assessment of country’s capacity for a national safeguarding operation
Table 4.9    Assessment of national OP and OP contaminated waste disposal capacity
Table 4.10   Broad assessment of country’s current obsolete pesticide transport, treatment and disposal
             capacity
Table 5.1    Summary of environmental and social impacts
Table 6.1    Emergency safeguarding measures that can be taken with respect to a selection of OP stores
Table 6.2    Safeguarding measures that can be taken with respect to a selection of OP stores
Table 6.3    List of stores selected as main collection centres (MCCs)
Table 6.4a   Impacts during safeguarding, transportation and disposal
Table 6.4b   Impacts and related mitigation measures during safeguarding, transportation and disposal
Table 6.5    Environmental and Social Management Plan
Table 6.6a   Coastal Zone stores from which OP will be hauled directly to the DSM port
Table 6.6b   Coastal Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the Kibiti CORECU main collection
             centre
Table 6.6c   Central Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the Morogoro main collection centre
             (200 km to Dar es Salaam port)
Table 6.6d   Northern Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the TPRI Arusha main collection
             Centre (685 km to Dar es Salaam port)
Table 6.6e   Western Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the Nzega main collection centre
             (900 km to Dar es Salaam port)
Table 6.6f   Southern Highlands Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the Mbarali Estate main
             collection centre (770 km to Dar es Salaam port)
Table 6.6g   Zanzibar Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the Mahonda Sugar Factory main
             collection centre (16 km to Zanzibar Port)
Table 7.1    SWOT analysis of alternatives for safeguarding obsolete pesticides
Table 7.2    SWOT analysis of alternative transport means for obsolete pesticides from original stores to
             shipping port
Table 7.3    SWOT analysis of alternative transport means for obsolete pesticides from shipping port to
             disposal facility outside the country
Table 7.4    SWOT analysis of alternatives for disposal of obsolete pesticides
Table7.5     SWOT analysis of alternative options for disposal of obsolete pesticide containers and their
             washwater
Table 7.6a   Option 1: A clean sweep of inventorised OP and safeguarding of contaminated soils
Table 7.6b   Option 2: Risk reduction strategy combining safeguarding and destruction of OP and
             contaminated soil based on PSMS risk profiles
Table 7.7    SWOT analysis of alternatives for safeguarding obsolete pesticides
Table 8.1    Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan
Table 9.1    Environmental and social management training requirements




                                                ix
List of figures:
Figure 2.1      Long-term (1960 to 1990) annual rainfall distribution
Figure 2.2      Physical Features
Figure 2.3      Tanzania hydrological networks
Figure 2.4      Tanzania Drainage Basins
Figure 2.5      Major Wetlands of Tanzania
Figure 2.6      Tanzania landcover map for year 2002
Figure 2.7      Protected areas in Tanzania
Figure 2.8      Tanzania Population density by Region (2002)
Figure 2.9      Settlements distribution in Tanzania
Figure 2.10     Roads, railways, airports of Tanzania
Figure 3.1      The EIA process
Figure 4.1      Obsolete pesticides store locations in Tanzania
Figure 4.2a-f   Fe and Fp plot results for various obsolete pesticide storage premises and contaminated sites
Figure 5.6      Lushoto DALDO buried pesticide site
Figure 5.6a     Blue copper as excavated from the buried site beside Lushoto DALDO store
Figure 5.6b     Sugarcane growing on the contaminated soil of buried copper at Lushoto DALDO
Figure 5.7a     Vikuge store – front view
Figure 5.7b     Vikuge site – inside store
Figure 5.7c     DDT Contaminated soil at Vikuge
Figure 5.7d     Soil saturated with DDT at Vikuge site
Figure 6.1      Schematic illustration of roles of PMU and disposal service contractor with respect to
                safeguarding and final disposal of OPs




                                                     x
List of Plates:
Plate 5.1     TPRI store as seen from outside
Plate 5.1a    Salvage drums at TPRI
Plate 5.1b    Variety of pesticides in the second store at TPRI
Plate 5.2     MOFACU Store 1
Plate 5.2a    Varieties of pesticides in MOFACU store 1
Plate 5.2b    Vegetable farm at Mji mpya stream, 300m from the site
Plate 5.3     Tumbi pesticides store
Plate 5.3a    Pesticides covered by plastic material at Tumbi store
Plate 5.3b    Tumbi store with a poster restricting people from grazing around
Plate 5.4     Highland Mbarali Store
Plate 5.4a    Pesticides in salvage drums
Plate 5.4b    Leaking pesticides in Mbarali store
Plate 5.5     Uyole farm store
Plate 5.5a    Pesticides stacked on shelves at Uyole
Plate 5.5b    Repackaged pesticides
Plate 5.6     Pesticides repacked in drums at Vingunguti store
Plate 5.7     Rusting drums with unknown pesticides in the TCB Store
Plate 5.7a    Cotton wastes and pesticides contaminated materials at the TCB store
Plate 5.8     Kimara Baruti Store No. 58
Plate 5.8a    Various pesticides containers at Kimara Baruti store No. 58
Plate 5.8b    Stocks at Kimara Baruti store no. 59
Plate 5.9     MSF site showing chemical store- front and back view
Plate 5.9a    Caked pesticides which leaked into floor after the container collapsed
Plate 5.9b    Glass bottles containing unknown pesticides in MSF store
Plate 5.10    Rufiji/Utete store: Front view
Plate 5.10a   Rufiji/Utete store as viewed from the left side
Plate 5.10b   A cow and poultry shed located adjacent to the Rufiji store
Plate 5.11a   TPHS site contaminated with Malathion
Plate 5.11b   Site situated adjacent to PHS offices
Plate 5.11c   Site situated adjacent to PHS offices
Plate 5.12    A steel container packed inside with varieties of unknown pesticides at KATC site
Plate 5.12a   Broken steel drums containing carbides in the KATC store
Plate 5.13    TBA store and its surrounding environment
Plate 5.13a   DDT and other unknown pesticides in TBA store
Plate 5.14    Sulfur and sulfur contaminated soil and packaging materials within GBP compound in Tanga
Plate 5.15    Public meeting at Vikuge
Plate 5.15a   Public meeting at MOFACU in Morogoro
Plate 5.15b   Public Meeting at Uyole




                                                xi
Appendices:
Appendix 4.1   Results of DDT analysis of water samples from obsolete pesticide storage sites
Appendix 4.2   Detailed data on distribution of pesticides per physical state and package type
Appendix 6.1   Road transportation routes
               Coastal Zone road map
               Road Map for Central Zone
               Road Map for Northern Zone
               Central Zone Road Map
Appendix 6.2   Site Sketches for the selected MCCs
               Site plan for Morogoro NHC MCC
               Site plan for TPRI Arusha MCC
               Site plan for Nzega – Tabora MCC
               Site layout plan for the MCC at Highlands Mbarali Estate
               Site layout plan for the MCC at Kibiti
               Site layout plan for the MCC at Mahonda in Zanzibar
Appendix 8.1   Sequence of daily debriefing activities at the field level and forms
               Daily progress report format
               Daily briefing format
               Daily check list format
               Material Safety Data Sheet Format
               Safe working method
               Task based risk assessment format
               Weekly progress report format
               Mission report format
               Movement of hazardous waste transport-log format
               Cargo list form format
               Weighing list format
               Loading list format

APPENDIX A     ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
               FOR SULPHUR STOCKPILE IN TANGA

APPENDIX B     TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CESA AND EMP




                                                        xii
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1.0    Background

The United Republic of Tanzania (URT) has large stockpiles of obsolete pesticides that
have deteriorated over the years. These materials are considered as hazardous waste.
According to the inventory database, Tanzania has about 700 tons of obsolete pesticides
identified in 149 stores countrywide. Other associated wastes identified include: 3.6 tons
of contaminated materials, 1.2 tons of contaminated equipments, 2755 tons of
contaminated soils and about 382 empty containers. The obsolete pesticides include large
volumes of organo-chlorinated products, notably DDT, which is classified among
persistent organic pollutants (POPs) under the Stockholm Convention. There are also
large quantities of organo-phosphate pesticides with high toxicity. Tanzania is included
among the first seven countries to benefit from the financing through the Africa
Stockpiles Program (ASP) funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) through the
WB as implementing agency to the ASP. The objective of the ASP Tanzania Project is to
assist the government in: (a) eliminating inventoried publicly held obsolete pesticide
stocks and associated waste; and (b) implementing measures to reduce and prevent future
related risks. The ASP Tanzania Project has four main components of clean up and
disposal, prevention of accumulation, capacity building and project management. The
National Environment Management Council (NEMC), which is within the Vice
President’s Office (Environmental Affairs), is the executing agency for ASP – Tanzania.

The storage, handling, transportation, disposal of pesticide and site remediation activities
and operations are associated with adverse environmental impacts. Consequently,
Country Environmental and Social Assessment (CESA) was prepared for the
implementation of the ASP programme in the country. The major aim of CESA is to put
in place a decision making tool for environmentally sound management of obsolete
pesticides.


2.0    Country Setting

Tanzania has about 945,000 square kilometers and lies approximately between latitudes
1o and 12o south and longitudes 29o and 40o east. The climate of Tanzania is influenced
by two main factors, of location in terms of latitude and position at the eastern edge of the
African continent. The country is a land of vast plains, plateaus and mountains. Except
for a narrow belt along the coast, most of country land lies 300m above sea level with
much of the country at an altitude higher than 1,000m above sea level. Annual rainfall in
Tanzania ranges from 400mm per annum mainly in the central parts of the country to
2300mm in the highlands and western parts of Lake Victoria (Figure 2.1). Precipitation is
not uniform across the country, but is marked by spatial, annual and inter-annual
variability. In terms of temperature country’s mean annual ranges from 21oC in the
highland areas to 29oC at the sea level. The year-to-year variability is very small and
departures from the long-term means generally insignificant. In all parts of country July
is the coolest month of the year.



                                            xiii
The major river systems found in the country include Rufiji, Pangani, Malagarasi, Ruvu,
Wami, Ruhuhu, Kiwira, Kagera, Mara, and Kilombero. The surface river flow regime
and moisture conditions in the country correspond to the general rainfall pattern. Rivers
and lakes start rising in November/December and experience a maximum in March –
April, with a recession period from May to October - November. Generally, the rainfall
season starts in October/November and ends in September/October. Tanzania has seven
major lakes including Lake Victoria, Eyasi, Nyasa, Manyara, Natron, Rukwa and
Tanganyika. Lake Victoria is the largest Lake in Africa and the largest tropical lake in the
World and the second largest fresh water Lake in the World in terms of surface area. The
main wetlands of Tanzania include Moyowosi swamps and floodplain, Kilombero flood
plain, Usangu, Wembere and Ruvu wetlands. Coastal wetlands are formed by wave
action along the shoreline. It includes mud flats, marshes, mangrove swamps, estuaries
and deltas.

The vegetation types found in Tanzania include forests, woodlands, bushlands and
grassland. Forests cover 47617 sq km or 5% of the country, woodlands 313871 sq km or
33%, bushland 234983 or 25%, grassland 151128 or 16%, mangrove forest 1512 or
0.16% and agriculture 128171 or 14%. Out of this area, 13000 million ha have been
gazetted as forest reserves while about 1.6 million ha of the gazetted forest reserves are
under water catchments management. Tanzania has a rich and diverse spectrum of fauna
including a wide variety of endemic species and sub-species. The most common game
species include buffalo, wildebeest, hippo, elephant, zebra, impala, bushbuck and
reedbuck, and predators such as the leopard and lion are widely distributed throughout
the country. The country boasts of an extensive wildlife protected areas network,
covering about 28% of the total land area. Out of this, 4% fall under the category of
National Parks (NPs), 15% Game Reserves (GRs), 1% the Ngorongoro Conservation
Area (NCA), and 8% Game Controlled Areas (GCAs). About 3% of protected areas
devoted wildlife conservation overlap with forest reserves.

According to the 2002 census, the country’s total population stood at 33.5 million (URT,
2003). The population of the country has nearly trebled in the four decades, growing at an
annual average growth of 3.22% between 1967 and 1978, at the rate of 2.8% between
1978 and 1988 and 2.9% between 1988 and 2002 (URT, 1967, 1978, 1988 and 2002).
The high population increase is found in areas with high employment opportunities
especially urban areas. The urban centers have been increasing over time. The overall
hierarchy of settlements in Tanzania is therefore depicted by 5 cities (Dar es Salaam,
Mwanza, Mbeya Tanga and Arusha), 12 municipalities (Dodoma, Moshi, Morogoro,
Mtwara Mikindani, Songea, Iringa, Singida, Tabora, Shinyanga, Bukoba, Kigoma and
Musoma), 9 towns (such as, Njombe, Korogwe, etc), 86 Townships (Kulaba and Mkai,
2004). Until 2006, reports from the Ministry of Local Government showed that there
were 10,334 registered Villages.

The total road network in Tanzania covers about 85,000 km, of which trunk roads take
12%; regional roads 24%; district roads 24%; urban roads 1%, and unclassified roads
take 35% (URT 2006), whereas 40% of the total road network is bituminized. Trunk



                                            xiv
roads are the national and international through routes, which link several regions and
provide access to important border posts. Analysis on the conditions of trunk and regional
roads in Tanzania shows that 51% of the roads are in good condition, 33% in fair
condition and 11% are in poor condition. Statistics for the year 1972 show that there were
only 121 hospitals country-wide. In the year 2000 there was an increase in health services
in the country, for example there were 529 health centres and 4005 dispensaries. In 2004
there was further increase in heath services to 217 hospitals, 434 health centres and 4,408
dispensaries.


3.0    Policy, legal and Institutional framework

Tanzania has a number of instruments for sustainable development guidance in the
country in terms of policy, legal and institutional arrangement. The national policies,
strategies, acts and the institutional framework as well as international conventions and
treaties that underpin the management of obsolete pesticides were taken into account in
developing CESA. The following are some of the key policies that are relevant to CESA:
National Environmental Policy (1997), Wildlife Policy of Tanzania (1998) (and its
revised version of 2007), Water Policy (2002), National Gender Policy (1999), National
Land Policy (1995), Agriculture and Livestock Policy (1997), National Health Policy
(2003), National Disaster Management Policy (2004).

The main legal frame work instruments includes the Environmental Management Act
(2004) with its associated Regulations of Environmental Impact assessment and
Auditing(2005), The Plant Protection Act (1997), Land Use Commission Act (1984),
The Water Resources Management Act (2009), Merchant Shipping Act (2003), The
Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority Act (2001), the Public Health Act
(2008), Occupational Health and Safety Act (2003), Industrial and Consumer Chemicals
(Management and Control) Act (2003), and the Environmental Management (Soil
Quality Standards) Regulations (2007). In addition to policy and legal instruments, the
following National and International programmes or conventions were taken into
account. These are the National Strategy for growth and Reduction of Poverty (NSGRP)
and the National Environmental Action Plan (1994). The international conventions that
were taken into account include the Basel Convention for the Control of Tranboundary
Movements of Hazardous Waste and their Disposal (1989), The Rotterdam Convention
on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and
Pesticides in International Trade; and the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic
Pollutants (POPs).


4.0    Baseline Information

According to the inventory database, Tanzania has about 700 metric tons of obsolete
pesticides, 3.6 metric tons of contaminated materials, 2,000 kg of contaminated building
materials and components, 1.25 tons of contaminated equipment, 2755 tons of
contaminated soils and about 382 empty containers. The stores were classified into three



                                            xv
categories of high, medium and low risk based on toxicity, quantity, surrounding
environmental conditions and the security of the store. The categorization of the stores
followed the FAO Environmental Management Toolkit in which Environmental Factor
(Fe) value higher than 50 have been considered problematic. Related to the risk posed by
the type and quantity of the obsolete pesticides (Fp), an Fp criterion value of above
50,000 was considered to be a high risk factor. The main factors for obsolete pesticide
accumulation are purchase of pesticides in excess of demand, contingency stocks that
remained unused, product ban e.g. DDT; Untimely distribution from central purchasing
stores to different parts of the country; acceptance of inappropriate donations (e.g. near
expired products, improperly labled products with foreign languages like Japanese etc)
and poor storage and management of pesticides stocks. The capacity of the country to
undertake a nationwide safeguarding operation of the obsolete pesticide stocks and
contaminated soil sites can be assessed based on availability of financial resources,
human resources (expertise) required, appropriate technology, experience, equipment and
facilities, appropriate safeguarding premises, types and condition of the obsolete pesticide
stocks and contaminated soils locations sites, and quantities of obsolete pesticide stocks
that need to be safeguarded. The capacity has been found to be adequate for small
operations but inadequate for large operations.


5.0    Environmental and Social Impacts

Obsolete pesticides have caused many, varied and widespread adverse impacts on human
health and the environment. Examples of these adverse impacts include death and
disability among pesticide users and the communities around them, global transport and
bio-accumulation of pesticides, contamination of local water supplies and loss of income
to farmers whose produce contains unacceptable levels of pesticide residues.

Stores containing obsolete pesticides and associated waste (149 in total) have been
categorized into high, medium and low risk. Nine stores were categorised as of high risk
which are at Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI); Morogoro Farmers
Cooperative Union (MOFACU); Highland Mbarali Estates Farm; Tumbi Agricultural
Research Institute; Lushoto DALDO; Vikuge in the Coast Region (both store and
contaminated site); Uyole Research Farm; Utete former agricultural store; Kingori village
which include Ngyani Cooperative Society in Arumeru district.

Nineteen (19) stores have been categorized as of medium risk and are located at
Vingunguti Plant Health Services (PHS); Tanzania Cotton Board (Kurasini); Kimara
Baruti; Mahonda Sugar Factory in Zanzibar; Utete Boma; Tengeru PHS (contaminated
site); Tanzania Building Agency (TBA); Bagamoyo DALDO; Kilombero Sugar
Company; Arusha Seed Farm; Regional Agricultural Advisor Tanga; TACRI Lyamungo;
Tanzania Flowers in Arusha; Burka Coffee Estate; Mara Co-operative Union; Kolping
Society in Kagera; Urambo Seed Farm; Tunduru DALDO; and TLTC in Iringa. The rest
of the stores were classified as low risk.




                                            xvi
Similarly the seriousness of social and environmental impacts is put in three main groups
based on risk level of the pesticide stores. The impacts are most serious in high risk stores
and low in medium and low risk sites. Typical examples of impacts in high risk stores
include the exposure of the workers due to the leakage of the pesticides and also due to
the generation of fumes and offensive odour. Secondly, the contamination of irrigation,
ground water or soils, food crops and livestock forage. Additionally the workers and the
local communities are exposed to nuisance due to offensive odour that is generated by
obsolete pesticides. In addition some impacts will be generated during the repackaging,
transportation and disposal of the obsolete pesticide.


6.0    Environmental Management Plan (EMP)

The objective of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for this CESA is to provide
a strategy for the management of OPs with a specific focus on safeguarding and final
disposal of the OPs and pesticide contaminated empty containers in order to reduce the
impacts and risks posed by poor management of OPs throughout Tanzania.

The EMP covers all aspects related to the safeguarding and disposal operations such as
the prioritisation of sites to be safeguarded, the identification of suitable interim and main
collection centres; repackaging operations including registration; transport; storage and
also it shall address the final disposal options (local/international) of the OP including
compliance with relevant international chemical conventions, codes of practice and
guidelines (e.g Basel Convention; IMDG Code and ADR Agreement, among others).

To ensure that all current and potential future impacts of the OP stores and contaminated
sites are covered, the EMP will be implemented in two steps. Step 1 will focus on
mitigation of effects of the current situation while Step 2 will focus on mitigation of
effects of safeguarding and disposal operations.

To prevent public health and environmental hazards from getting out of hand at OP stores
and contaminated sites that are in critical conditions, emergency safeguarding will be
carried out while awaiting the main safeguarding and disposal measures.

Before the main planned safeguarding operations commence, emergence safeguarding
measures need to be taken to put an end to health and environmental risks from
deteriorated OP storage facilities.

The emergence safeguarding measures will be similar to the ones previously carried out
by NEMC at various OP stores in the country. They include repackaging of chemicals
whose containers are deteriorated. The emergency safeguarding measures include fencing
off OP stores and pesticide contaminated areas, and rehabilitation of seriously dilapidated
OP stores. The types and extents of the emergence safeguarding measures will be
assessed on a case by case basis using data obtained from surveys carried out by NEMC
nationwide previously.




                                            xvii
7.0    Analysis of Alternatives

7.1    Pesticide Safeguarding Alternatives

With respect to the safeguarding needs of the obsolete pesticides, implications of three
alternatives were considered and analysed. The alternatives are: i) no safeguarding action,
ii) safeguarding at the current location of each store, and iii) use of collection centres to
safeguard pesticides moved from the currently dispersed individual stores. To
comprehensively assess the three alternatives, an analysis of their Strengths, Weaknesses,
Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT) was carried out.

Notably the SWOT analysis revealed that, unlike the options of safeguarding at the
current store locations and use of collection centres, the option of no safeguarding action
does not present any meaningful opportunities. This is understandable because the no
action option simply maintains the status quo whose deficiencies are the very reason for
carrying out this project.

Based on the SWOT analysis, it is evident that the use of collection centres for
safeguarding is the option that is most favourable. This opion is the one that is likely to
be most cost-effective and as such the one recommended for adoption in subsequent
decisions in this project.


7.2    Pesticide Transport Means Alternatives

To come up with the best option for transporting the obsolete pesticides within the
country from their eventual safeguarding locations to their disposal place or final
shipping port, three alternatives were identified and analysed. The alternatives are: i)
railway transport, ii) road transport, and iii) a combination of railway and road transport.
For the transportation needs of the obsolete pesticides outside the country, two
alternatives were considered and analysed: i) air freighting and ii) ocean freighting.

The SWOT analysis of the alternative transport means for the OP from the original stores
to the shipping port indicates that road transport is the most favourable option. On the
other hand, the SWOT analysis shows that for transporting the OP from the shipping port
to the ultimate disposal place, ocean freighting is the favourable option.


7.3    Pesticide and Pesticide Container Disposal Alternatives

With a view to objectively determining the best options for the disposal of the obsolete
pesticides and their containers, identification of disposal alternatives was done on the
basis of where rather than how the pesticides and pesticide containers could best be
disposed of. It was assumed that proven and established disposal technologies as well as
appropriately competent and experienced disposal contractors would be employed. The
options for disposing of the pesticides within the country and shipping to another country



                                            xviii
for eventual disposal were considered and assessed using a SWOT analysis. Similarly,
the options for disposing of pesticide containers within the country and shipping to
another country for eventual disposal were considered and analysed.

The SWOT analysis indicates that it is more advantageous to carry out the final disposal
of obsolete pesticides outside than within the country. With respect to the disposal of OP
containers and washwater, however, the SWOT showed that it is better to dispose of them
within than outside the country.


7.4    Cost Considerations for options for safeguarding and disposal of OP

Option 1: A clean sweep of inventorised OP and safeguarding of contaminated soils

 Waste stream component                          Quantity             Estimated cost (USD)
                                                 (tones)
 Obsolete pesticides                                          700                2,800,000
 Contaminated soils                                          2755               11,020,000
 Total                                                       3455               13,820,000

Option 2: Risk reduction strategy combining safeguarding and destruction of OPs and
contaminated soil based on PSMS risk profiles

 Waste stream component                          Quantity             Estimated cost (USD)
                                                 (tones)
 Obsolete pesticides                                           700               2,800,000
 Contaminated soils                                           2755              11,020,000
 Other contaminated materials                                   3.6                 14,400
 Total                                                      3458.6              13,834,400

From the analysis presented in the two tables presented above, none of the options
considered is significantly more advantageous than the other. Based on this analysis,
therefore, neither Option 1 nor Option 2 deserves preferential treatment.


8.0    Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan

8.1    Background

Monitoring is needed to check if and to what extent the impacts are mitigated benefits
enhanced and new problems addressed. Plans for monitoring have been included in the
Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan. The monitoring plan as for ESMP also
assigns responsibilities for monitoring activities.

Monitoring of safeguarding activities shall be undertaken by members of the Project
Management Unit (PMU) involving (the Field Managers (FMs) from NEMC, National


                                           xix
Project Coordinator (NPC), and Technical Advisor for Disposal (TAD) and Zonal
coordinators (ZC) from MAFS&C. Where resettlement will be necessary, local
government officials will be involved in the monitoring exercise. Non-governmental
Organisations and other Community Services Organisations will constitute the
monitoring team for the safeguarding activities FAO technical Support Missions
monitoring and simultaneously provide backstopping advice and follow up from the FAO
Headquarters etc.


8.2    Project Team Monitoring and Reporting

Field Managers (FMs)

The day to day monitoring of the field activities shall be undertaken by the FMs. There
will be a variety of standard forms to communicate and monitor activities which are
maintained in the database within the project office and files and electronically for
reference, follow-up and auditing. The forms concern:

       Daily briefing
       Project checklists
       Daily progress reports
       Weekly progress reports
       Work plans


Monitoring of the PMU

It is recommended that a suitably qualified independent consultant be procured to
monitor and evaluate the performance of the PMU. The consultant should necessarily be
well qualified in important aspects of OP management based on both academic training
and experience acquired through undertaking similar assignments.


9.0    Environmental and Social Management Training Requirements

Tanzania currently has some capacity in obsolete pesticides management. This capacity
has been developed as a result of training and field experience gained from the
implementation of past initiatives in Tanzania. One of the main objectives of the ASP in
Tanzania is to build on the existing capacity and to establish new capacity in each of the
key components of the project. Specifically, those who will be involved in safeguarding
and disposal activities as elucidated in this CESA document need to be properly trained
to enable them discharge their duties effectively, safely and in an environmentally
friendly manner.


In view of the foregoing, capacity needs to be developed in the following areas:


                                           xx
 (i)     Health and safety,
 (ii)    Environmental protection,
 (iii)   Equipment supply,
 (iv)    Public consultation, management,
 (v)     Environmental policies and programs
 (vi)    Management, planning and budgeting

The envisaged training objectives will be achieved by organizing appropriate induction
courses and training workshops. Beneficiaries of the training will include NEMC staff,
MAFS&C staff, PMU members, and zonal coordinators.




                                          xxi
                                         CHAPTER ONE
1.0 INTRODUCTION

1.1      Background

The United Republic of Tanzania (URT) has large stockpiles of obsolete pesticides that
have deteriorated over the years. These materials are considered as hazardous waste. In
1997-1998, the Government of the Netherlands supported the URT in carrying out a
nationwide inventory of obsolete stockpiles and identified about 1000 metric tons of
obsolete pesticides and some 200 metric tons of veterinary waste, mainly drugs and
vaccines. The obsolete pesticides include large volumes of organo-chlorinated products,
notably DDT, which is classified as Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) under the
Stockholm Convention. There are also large quantities of organo-phosphate pesticides
with high toxicity for people and livestock which were scattered over more than 300
stores. The majority of the stores do not meet the basic requirements for environmentally
sound storage of hazardous chemicals as set by FAO and United Nations Environment
Programme (UNEP). The stocks were posing a direct threat to human health and the
environment.

In recognition of this problem identified by the 1997/1998 inventory, URT made an
official appeal for assistance from the international donor community during the FAO
Third Consultation on Prevention and Disposal of Obsolete Pesticide Stocks, which was
held in Rome in March 1998. Tanzania was subsequently included among the first seven
countries to benefit from the financing through the Africa Stockpiles Programme (ASP)
funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF)1 through the WB as implementing
agency to the ASP2. A Country workshop was held in August 2002 in Dar es Salaam to
discuss and evaluate the scope of the obsolete pesticide problem in the country and made
recommendations regarding appropriate actions to be undertaken. Thereafter, a project
Formulation mission from the FAO Investment Centre and the Plant Production and
Protection Division (AGPP) visited Tanzania in November 2002. Subsequently, a Pre-
appraisal mission was conducted by the WB in March 2003. This was followed by the
ASP Partners meeting at Midrand, Republic of South Africa (RSA) in September 2003,
which was attended by representatives of the Government of URT. This culminated with
an Appraisal mission by the WB in April 2004.

A GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement was subsequently signed between the Government
and the World Bank and ASP Tanzania Project became effective upon its signature in
December 2006.




1
  Other countries include Ethiopia, Mali, Morocco South Africa, , Tunisia (full disposal) and Nigeria
(preparation only)
2
  The WB was invited by the ASP partners to take the role of implementing agency


                                                     1
1.2    Components of ASP Project in Tanzania

The Tanzania project comprises four inter-related components aimed at removing the
obsolete pesticides and ensuring that the problem does not re-occur. They include:
1) Clean up and disposal: (i) inventory (pesticides, containers, soils and buried
     pesticides), risk assessment, data base development and a register of contaminated
     sites; (ii) preparation of the CESA; (iii) safeguarding of the pesticides (repackaging,
     collection, transportation and interim storage) and (iv) environmentally sound
     disposal of the obsolete pesticides and associated wastes either locally or
     internationally. The clean up and disposal component also includes store cleaning
     and/or decontamination after the obsolete pesticides and associated waste have been
     cleared from the stores.
2) Prevention of Accumulation: (i) communication and awareness raising activities
     on the ASP, (ii) a review and where needed update of the legal and regulatory
     framework for the management of pesticides, (iii) preparation and implementation
     of a pilot scale Integrated Pest Management (IPM) strategy.
3) Capacity Building: The strengthening of the capacity of the Government and other
     sectors to implement the three project components through the provision of training
     by the Technical Support Unit (TSU) based at FAO, World Bank (WB) and other
     training providers.
4) Project Management: This includes resource support to the Government including
     the Project Management Unit (PMU) to implement the project. In addition the TSU
     and the WB will provide project monitoring, reporting and evaluation.

1.3    Management of the Project

The National Environment Management Council (NEMC) which is within the Vice
President’s Office (Environmental Affairs) is the executing agency for ASP – Tanzania.
The Programme is managed through a Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by
Project Coordinator. Other key staff members include two field managers, a prevention
coordinator seconded from the Ministry of Agriculture, Technical Advisor for disposal,
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer and Communication Officer. Six agriculture zonal
coordinators coordinate with the ASP- PMU in project implementation. A procurement
officer is also available within NEMC.

A steering committee is set up to oversee ASP implementation in the country. The
Committee comprises members from the following key institutions: (1) Permanent
Secretary fromVice Presidents Office (Chair), (2) Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Security (Vice Chair), (3) Director General from NEMC (Secretary), (4) Occupational
Safety and Health Authority (OSHA), (5) Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI),
(6) Government Chemist Laboratory Agency, (7) Department of Environment (Zanzibar)
(8) Tanzania Ports Authority (9) Department of Agriculture, Zanzibar, and (10) Focal
Point for the Basel and Stockholm Convention based at the Division of Environment. A
parallel Forum is set up to include members from NGOs, Civil Society organizations and
Intergovernmental organizations.




                                             2
1.4      Rationale for conducting CESA

Pesticide repackaging, storage, handling, transportation, disposal and site remediation
activities in country operations are associated with adverse environmental impacts.
Because of the significance of the impacts, Country Environmental and Social
Assessment (CESA) and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) need to be prepared
for the safeguarding and disposal activities. The major aim of developing the Country
Environmental and Social Assessment (CESA) and Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) is to put in place a decision making tool for environmentally sound management
of obsolete pesticides.

The project triggers two World Bank policies, i.e. OP 4.01 on Environmental
Assessments, which requires the preparation of a full EA and OP 4.09 on Pest
Management which requires a Pest Management Plan (PMP). However, since the project
itself meets the requirements of a PMP, there will be no need to prepare a self-standing
document. The applicability of two additional policies OP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement and OP 4.04 on Natural Habitats was evaluated by consulting communities
located in vicinity of the obsolete pesticides storage sites and conducting recconaisance
survey.

It is also worth mentioning that it is a legal requirement for countries under the ASP
umbrella to complete a CESA and EMP as defined above before funds can be released
for the safeguarding and disposal of obsolete stocks and associated waste. In view of the
above, conducting the Country-project Environmental and Social Assessment (CESA) is
a critical component of the ASP project in Tanzania.

1.5      Objectives of CESA

Preparation of the CESA is one of the activities under the Clean up and Disposal
component of the ASP project in the United Republic of Tanzania. In respect to the ASP,
the CESA aims to:

      Provide data on the inter-relationship between the locations where pesticides are
      stored and the broader environment in a country;
      Prioritise storage locations based on the risk posed to public health and the
      environment;
      Allow the country to make decisions on the strategy to be adopted for the
      safeguarding of obsolete pesticides (repackaging, transport and storage);
      Allow the country to select the most appropriate disposal strategy for the waste
      identified at the inventory stage based on an assessment of national capacity to treat
      wastes in an environmentally sound manner;
      Develop EMPs for all category of sites (high risk, medium and low risk) which will
      be incorporated into the technical specifications for the tender of the disposal
      contractor, and will guide the development of detailed and operational health and
      safety plans.




                                              3
      Factor in any social issues as determined during the assessment of the inventory data
      and identify any locations where resettlement of inhabitants may be required
      (temporary or long term).

1.6      Methodology

1.6.1 Data Collection and Consultations – Stage I

The environmental and social assessment was carried out using a combination of methods
including literature review, desk research, country project documents, extensive
consultations with NEMC and other stakeholders, and from information to be collected
during the fieldwork.

Analysis was done using a "process approach" and "activity-impact interaction matrices"
to identify, prioritize, and develop mitigation plans. The data collected from the process
was analyzed using a structured approach. This approach is based on the development of
a simple life cycle analysis of pesticides within Tanzania and results in the identification
of the main activities (and associated sub-activities) in the pesticides life cycle.

Work Plan

The following activities were undertaken in developing CESA:
       Baseline Survey – Analysis of the Detailed Inventory. This is a multi-disciplinary
       site survey conducted prior to or in the initial stage of a joint operational
       deployment. The survey included the following:
             (a) A summary of the previous waste management and pesticide disposal
                  initiatives
             (b) A statement on the causes of accumulation as identified by previous
                  studies
             (c) All PSMS data related to the pesticide stores in the country, including
                  the plot of Environmental and Pesticide Risk Factors.
             (d) A preliminary register of all contaminated sites
             (e) An assessment of national management capacity to complete a national
                  safeguarding operation and
             (f) An assessment of current disposal capacity in the country to determine
                  the potential for local treatment of the wastes as identified at
                  inventory.

         Review of Tanzania’s Policies, Legal and Institutional Framework – Area of
         focus included:
               (a) National waste management legislation,
               (b) National transport of hazardous goods regulations (includes repackaging
                    for transportation, loading/unloading trucks, trucking to storage or
                    disposal facility, and possible accidents)
               (d) Environmental Assessment/ Impact Regulations
               (e) Permitting of works, etc


                                              4
       Visit of selected sites – the sites visited include: Vingunguti, Korogwe, TPRI,
       Mbarali, Store A, B and C in Morogoro
       Application of FAO Environmental Management Toolkit (EMTK) i.e. Volume 1
       that is based on the concept of environmental risk assessment and Volume 2
       provided support in the areas of pesticide storage and transport to guide the
       Process of Identifying Risks and Prioritizing Sites
       Identification of Priority Sites: Sites were sorted by Risk Category (High,
       Medium and Low) and representative sites were selected from each group
       Environmental sampling (related to soil and water contamination) and other
       (testing where necessary) at high risk sites was carried out.
       Public Consultation and Education included the following:
              (a) Development and implementation of a comprehensive and integrated
                    public awareness, education and consultations programme to support
                    implementation of the ASP at the national and local levels, as well as
                    efforts aimed at prevention (reducing the stream of obsolete
                    pesticides); and
              (b) Building longer term capacity in the country for engaging citizens and
                    communities in addressing national and local environmental
                    challenges. Public consultation was an integral and an important part
                    during the preparation of CESA
       Development of Prevention Plans – That precluded future stockpiles of obsolete
       pesticides
       Review and Implementation of Country Clean Up - Cleanup and disposal
       activities is based on a detailed inventory of pesticide stockpiles and contaminated
       sites, determining the identity of the contaminant, its quantity and proximity to
       people
       Involuntary Resettlement Plans – if Triggered. Project implementation may call
       for physical relocation of people from contaminated sites. Adequate mitigation
       measures should be planned
       Analysis of Alternatives - Alternatives disposal options were explored. Several
       options are open to the project for the disposal of obsolete pesticides and pesticide
       wastes. During this process, the findings presented in the World Bank report on
       the Disposal Technology Options Study (2008) which provides information about
       the treatment and disposal of obsolete pesticides and associated wastes for
       countries and project partners in the Africa Stockpiles Programme (ASP) were
       used.

1.6.2 Development of Environmental Management Plan (EMP) – Stage 2

Overall Design of the EMP for ASP Tanzania Project

The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) describes the actions (including mitigation
measures, cost, and institutional arrangements) that must be taken in order to ensure that
ASP Tanzania Project implementation is undertaken in an environmentally sound manner
and without adverse socio- economic impacts. The structure of the EMP is linked to the
"staging" of project activities and is driven by the following three issues:


                                            5
       The importance of ensuring that the "inventory activity" is conducted in a manner
       that minimizes risks to the environment, to inventory workers and to local
       communities;
       The importance of successful completion of Stage 1 activities as a precursor to
       starting Stage 2 within the country; and
       The need to conduct a country project environmental and social assessment -
       CESA

The EMP includes formulation of the mitigation measures for each risk category sites and
estimation of the associated costs for the selected measures. This will also include
establishing performance indicators for monitoring the implementation of the mitigation
measures.

The EMP is considered to be a tool that will allow Tanzania country project teams to
identify the risks associated with their proposed safeguarding and disposal strategy and
present the mitigation measures which will be adopted to minimize the potential impact
of those risks on human health and the environment.

The EMP provide a basis for the development of the detailed and site specific operational
health and safety plans. The health and safety plans are very detailed operational work
plans that will be developed for all high risk sites by the disposal contractor (and the
format will be provided in the tender document), and at the generic level for all other
sites by the country teams once the CESA/EMP has been completed. The plan will
explain how the operations must be completed, will incorporate all the mitigations
measures included in the EMP, and describe how these mitigation measures will actually
be implemented in the field.




                                           6
                                   CHAPTER TWO

2.0 COUNTRY SETTING

The country setting covers six main items 1) the physical aspects, in terms of location,
size, climate, relief, and hydrology, 2) the biological aspects of the country in terms of
the flora and fauna, 3) the socio economic aspects of the country including the
population, settlement distribution and general administration of the country, and 4) the
road networks in the country, port facilities and main hospital facilities.

2.1    Location and climate

Tanzania has about 945,000 square kilometers and lies approximately between latitudes
1o and 12o south and longitudes 29o and 40o east. The climate of Tanzania is influenced
by two main factors, of location in terms of latitude and position at the eastern edge of the
African continent. Annual rainfall in Tanzania ranges from 400mm per annum mainly in
the central parts of the country to 2300mm in the highlands and Western parts of Lake
Victoria (Figure 2.1). Precipitation is not uniform across but is marked by spatial, annual
and inter-annual variability. In terms of spatial variability the Regions found in central
parts and northern areas of the country receive the lowest amount of rainfall of between
400mm to 900mm per annum. Regions located in the Coastal and Western parts of the
country receive medium amounts of rainfall, ranging from 900mm to 1200mm per
annum. The Regions that get the highest amount of rainfall include Morogoro, Iringa,
Mbeya and parts of Kilimanjaro, Kagera and Rukwa with the average rainfall exceeding
1200mm per year. In terms of temperature country’s mean annual ranges from 21oC in
the highland areas to 29oC at the sea level. The year-to-year variability is very small and
departures from the long-term means generally insignificant. In all parts of country July
is the coolest month of the year. The warmest month shows more variation. It can be
either before or after the main rainy period. When it is before the rain period then
October or November has the highest mean temperature. This condition occurs over most
of southern Tanzania. In the second case when it is after the rains the maximum
temperatures occur during February or March and this condition prevails along the east
coast and in the north-west of the country. There are many deviations from these general
trends, but the differences between monthly mean temperatures at the same area are
usually very small. In only a very few areas December and January are the hottest months
of the year.




                                             7
Figure 2.1: Long-term (1960 to 1990) annual rainfall distribution

In Tanzania, wind speed and direction vary strongly with local conditions. Generally the
wind velocity is highest during the monsoon seasons and lowest in the intermediate
periods, but there are many exceptions to this rule. From December to March air masses
move from high to low-pressure areas, and eastern Africa is therefore under the influence
of a northeasterly air-stream during this period. This is called the northeast monsoon or
“Kaskazi?. From about June to September, the eastern parts of Africa are under the
influence of a strong air stream from the south-east, the south-east monsoon or “Kusi?. It
carries air from a large high pressure area over South Africa and adjacent parts of the
Indian Ocean, where the winter brings relatively low temperatures, to a very strong low
over Saudi Arabia, which is related to the high summer temperature there.




                                            8
2.2    Relief

The country is a land of vast plains, plateaus and mountains. Except for a narrow belt
along the coast, most of country land lies above 300m above sea level with much of the
country at an altitude higher than 1,000m above sea level (Figure 2.2). The coastal
lowland areas, rising to 100m extends inland for a very short distance except between the
mouths of Ruvu and Rufiji rivers. In the somewhat broadened coastal belt between those
limits lie the Pugu hills, rising to 300m. Alluvial lowlands are found along rivers draining
into the Indian ocean, particularly Wami, Ruvu, Rufiji and the latter’s tributary, the
Kilombero. Except for the river deltas, the coastline of Tanzania is characterized by coral
growth. The low coastal cliffs are cut out of old coral reefs once under the sea, while
offshore growing coral reefs are common.

The hinterland of Tanzania is marked by plateaus, plains and mountains, rising above
1000m above sea level. There are three major plateau areas. The southeast plateau
extends from west of Songea to east of Newala, and northwards to the Great Ruaha
(Ruaha Mkuu). River valleys cut the Handeni-Masai plateau in its eastern part. The
Masai steppe is rolling countryside with occasional inselbergs, bare rocking hills or
groupings of very large boulders. The central Plateau, covering over one third of the
country, lies between the two rift valleys. It is more than 1,000m in altitude, covered for
the most part with miombo woodland and broken here and there by inselbergs. The
Serengeti Plain rises to more than 1,500m.

A distinctive feature of Tanzania is the rift valley, whose form is marked in many places
by long, narrow and deep depressions, often filled with lakes. The Great Rift Valley runs
from near the mouth of the Zambezi River northward through Tanzania, Kenya, and
Ethiopia and across the Red sea to Israel. Where it approaches Tanzania from the south,
at the northern end of Lake Nyasa, it divides into western and eastern rifts. Lake
Tanganyika lies in the western rift, which continues northwards through Lake Kivu in the
Democratic Republic of Congo. Lake Rukwa depression marks a subsidiary rift to the
western one. The eastern rift is largely undistinguishable until Saranda between Dodoma
and Manyoni, but further north it is marked by Lake Manyara, whose western shore is a
steep scarp, and by Lake Natron. Lake Eyasi lies in a subsidiary fissure of the eastern rift.




                                             9
Figure 2.2: Tanzania Physical features

2.3    Hydrology

The hydrological aspects cover the major river systems, lakes and wetlands and ground
water. Figure 2.3 shows some of the major river systems found in the country. It includes
Rufiji, Pangani, Malagarasi, Ruvu, Wami, Ruhuhu, Kiwira, Kagera, Mara, and
Kilombero River. The surface river flow regime and moisture conditions in the country
correspond to the general rainfall pattern.          Rivers and lakes start rising in
November/December and experience a maximum in March – April, with a recession
period from May to October - November. Generally, the hydrological year starts in
October/November and ends in September/October. In the dry northern and central parts
with annual rainfall between 500 – 800 mm, streams are seasonal, and the mean annual
specific runoff is generally below 2 litres per second per square kilometer (l/s/km2). On


                                           10
the highlands, like the south – western highlands, the Uluguru, Ukaguru and Usambara
mountain ranges, and on the slopes of Mountains Kilimanjaro and Meru, as well as in
most of the western parts of the country, where annual rainfall is in the range of 1200 –
1600mm, streams and rivers are perennial.




Figure 2.3: Tanzania hydrological networks




                                           11
About 50% of the country’s surface runoff flows directly into the Indian Ocean from the
major river systems of Pangani, Umba, Sigi, Msangazi, Wami, Ruvu, Rufiji, Mbwenkuru,
Matandu and Ruvuma. The remaining 50% of the country’s runoff drains northwards
into Lake Victoria and then through the Nile River to the Mediterranean; westwards into
Lake Tanganyika and then through the Congo River system to the Atlantic Ocean;
southwards into Lake Nyasa and through the Zambezi river system to the Indian Ocean;
and into internal drainage basins. Based on the drainage pattern the country is divided
into nine drainage basins for sound and sustainable management of water resources. They
are as follows: Pangani, Wami/Ruvu, Rufiji, Ruvuma and southern coast, Lake Nyasa,
internal drainage, Lake Rukwa, Lake Tanganyika, and Lake Victoria. Figure 2.4 shows
the nine water basins of the country.




Figure 2.4: Tanzania Drainage Basins


2.4    Lakes, Oceans and Wetlands

Tanzania has seven major lakes including Lake Victoria, Eyasi, Nyasa, Manyara, Natron,
Rukwa and Tanganyika. Lake Victoria is the largest Lake in Africa; largest tropical lake
in the World and the second largest fresh water Lake in the World in terms of surface
area. Lake Victoria is relatively a shallow lake with a mean depth of 40m, and a
catchment area of 184,000 sq kms. The Lake is a source of the White Nile and is shared
by three countries of Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda. Lake Eyasi is located south of the
Serengeti National Park on the floor of the East African Rift Valley at an elevation of


                                          12
1,040m. It is a shallow lake with a surface area of 1050 sq kms. Lake Manyara, which
has alkaline water, is located in the Lake Manyara National Park and it covers about 89
sq miles. The Lake is famous for its abundances of different types of wildlife including
baboons, hippos, elephants, wildbeast, flamingos and many more. Lake Natron is located
in northern Tanzania, close to Kenya border within the rift valley system. Its water is
saline due to high evaporation rates during the dry season. Depending on the temperature
and rainfall, salinity can reach a pH of 9 to 10.5. The Lake is the only breeding location
for lesser flamingos because the high salinity values acts as barrier against the predators.
Due to its uniqueness, Lake Natron is on the Ramsar list of wetlands of international
importance. Lake Rukwa is found in the southwestern part of the country in the rift valley
zone between Lake Tanganyika and Nyasa at an elevation of about 800 metres. It is an
alkaline Lake with surface area of 5760 sq kms. The lake is famous for its crocodiles and
fishing activities. Lake Tanganyika is located in the western part of the country bordering
Burundi, Zambia and Democratic Republic of Congo. It is believed to be the second
largest freshwater lake in the world by volume and also the second deepest with
maximum depth of 1470 metres. Lake Tanganyika discharges its water to the Atlantic
Ocean through the Congo River system.

2.5     Wetlands

The wetlands in Tanzania can be classified into three main types of Coastal wetlands,
Rift system and Highland drainage basins. Table 2.1 and Figure 2.5 show the main
wetlands of Tanzania including Moyowosi swamps and floodplain, Kilombero flood
plain, Usangu, Wembere and Ruvu wetlands. Coastal wetlands are formed by wave
action along the shoreline and, it include mud flats, marshes, mangrove swamps, estuaries
and deltas. Rift system wetlands are found in rift depressions and are characterized by
salt lakes with inland drainage. Wetland of highlands and drainage basins are found in
the long rivers originating in the highlands that meander through plains forming lakes,
swamps and flood plains. It is estimated that about 5061sq km or 5.5% of Tanzania is
covered by different types of lakes.


Table 2.1: Major Wetlands of Tanzania. NO = no special status, NP = national park ,and
GR = game reserve.

Name                            Size (ha)         Status           Comments
Kagera Valley lakes               35 000          (Ramsar)         15 000 ha are in Rwanda
Moyowosi swamps                  320 000            NO
Moyowosi floodplain              250 000           Ramsar          In wet years
Ugalla floodplain                 90 000           Ramsar
Lake Sagara                       85 000           Ramsar          In wet years
Masirori Swamp                    30 000            NO             Papyrus swamp
Nyumba ya Mungu                   22 000            NO             Impoundment
Pangani River                     90 000            NO             Some papyrus
Wami floodplain                   80 000            NO             Some papyrus
Ruvu floodplain                   43 200            NO
Kilombero floodplain             626 500           Ramsar
Ihefu Swamp                        4 000            GR



                                            13
Name                            Size (ha)         Status           Comments
Usangu Flats                     150 000            NO             In wet years

Mtera reservoir                     66 000         NO              Area of open water
Lake Rukwa                        600 000          NO              Some GR
Katavi National Park                67 000          NP             Floodplain
Katavi National Park                 2 520          NP             Lakes
Bahi Swamp                        125 000          NO              Worked in 2005
Wembere floodplain                140 000          NO              In wet years
Lake Kitangire                      11 500         NO              Are of open water
Lake Eyasi                        116 000          NO              In wet years
Yaida Swamp                         16 200         NO              Seasonal lake/swamp
Lake Natron                         85 500        Ramsar           Lake level in wet years
Lake Natron                         12 000        Ramsar           Swamp
Lake Manyara                        41 300         NO              West shore only in NP
Lake Burungi                         4 000         NO
Shuriro swamp                       36 000         NO              In wet years
Tarangire NP swamps               >60 000           NP             In wet years
Lake Buigi                           7 000         GR
Lake Ikamba                         12 500         NO
Lake Victoria                   3 375 600          NO              Area in Tanzania
Lake Tanganyika                 1 350 736          NO              Area in Tanzania
Lake Nyasa                      2 975 000          NO              None in Tanzania
The Balangidas                      10 000         NO
Latham Island                           <3         NO              Major seabird colonies
Lake Victoria Shoreline         1 420 km           NO
Tanganyika shoreline               650 km          NO
Nyasa shoreline                    305 km          NO
Indian Ocean coast             >1 500 km           NO              Rufiji Delta – Mafia Ramsar
Source: Boere et al (2006)

2.6     Groundwater

Groundwater availability, mainly controlled by the geology of the country, is variable.
About 75% of the country is underlain by Precambrian Basement complex, which
comprises of hard, consolidated and sometimes metamorphosed rocks. These rocks form
basement aquifers, where they are weathered, fractured or faulted. Other types are Karroo
and younger aquifers, coastal sedimentary formation of limestone and sandstone, and the
alluvial sedimentary sequence which mostly include clay, silt, sand and gravel and
volcanic material found in alluvial plains. Volcanic areas of northern Tanzania as well as
the sedimentary coastal basins are potential groundwater resource areas. Groundwater is a
major supplement for surface water for many parts in the country and is a vital source of
water in the semi-arid areas where surface water is scarce. The Pangani basin has a high
groundwater potential as compared to the other basins. It is in this basin where significant
amounts of groundwater are extracted for irrigation (High Yield boreholes giving more
than 100 m3 per hour have been drilled in Kahe flats). In this basin groundwater recharge
is mainly from rainfall and rivers. The nature of geologic formations existing in basin i.e.
fault zones, contact zones and coastal sediments influence groundwater recharge. In
Wami/Ruvu basin the aquifers are of sand, limestone, and partially fractured granite. The
groundwater potential in the basin is estimated to be high. Wells drilled in the basin can


                                             14
yield up to as high as 28 m3/hour. Geological formations within the basin favor fast
groundwater recharge from rainfall, surface and groundwater. Recharge in the basin is
generally from rainfall. Sand formations, which occupy a large part of the basin, are
porous, thus accelerating the rates of infiltration and percolation respectively. Apart from
the sand formations fault zones also act as media for the basin’s groundwater recharge.
Interpretation of resistivity soundings show that saline water is below 70m.




Figure 2.5: Major wetlands of Tanzania




                                            15
The Rufiji basin is the second with highest groundwater potential. The basin is underlain
by Karoo, especially in Tunduru area, formations having high groundwater potential.
There are also numerous faults in the area covered by rocks of the basement system.
Groundwater recharge in the basin is mainly from rainfall and existing water bodies
including rivers, ponds and man-made reservoirs. In the basin, groundwater recharge is
high in the sedimentary deposits of the coastal zone while in the less permeable rocks the
recharge is in the faulted and fissured zones. The Internal Basin has a high groundwater
potential and contributes significantly to the livelihood of the people living in the basin
because mostly they are dependent on this water resources. Groundwater recharge is
mainly from rainfall and rivers. The recharge areas are the major fault lines which
surround Makutupora, and the porous volcanic formations.

The groundwater potential in Rukwa Basin has a high potential as evidenced by the high
success of wells drilled in the basin. Groundwater recharge is mainly from rainfall, rivers
and other existing water bodies. It is high in recent deposits of sand and clay. The
recharge is also high in faulted and fissured zones within the Dodoma and Ufipa gneisses.
However, the rate of recharge is unknown as no studies have been carried out. In the
Lake Tanganyika basin the groundwater potential is also high in parts of Rukwa region in
the areas bordering Lake Tanganyika and parts part of Tabora Region. This is evidenced
by the success of wells drilled in the basin. However, shallow groundwater potential in
the basin is not very high. Groundwater recharge in the basin is generally from rainfall
and existing water bodies including rivers, ponds and lakes. In the Lake Victoria basin
high groundwater potentials is found in Musoma, Bunda, Ngara, Magu and part of
Bukoba Districts. In the basin, groundwater recharge is mainly from rainfall, rivers and
lakes. The main recharge areas are lake deposits around the lake, which include Bukoba
sandstone and limestone deposits and main rift lines. However, the pattern and annual
recharge rate is not yet established.

2.7     Flora and Fauna

Tanzania is a rich country in terms of vegetation and wildlife abundance. Based on
Africover land cover map of 2002, the main vegetation types in the country includes,
forest, woodlands, bushland and grasslands. The wildlife types in Tanzania include both
the large and small mammals found in the plains, the amphibious wildlife in the water
bodies including the lakes, rivers and wetlands and birds mostly in the wetlands.

2.7.1   Main vegetation types

The vegetation types found in Tanzania include forests, woodlands, bushlands and
grassland. Figure 2.6 shows the major vegetation types of Tanzania. Forests cover
47617 sq km or 5% of the country, woodlands 313871 sq km or 33%, bushland 234983
or 25%, grassland 151128 or 16%, mangrove forest 1512 or 0.16% and agriculture
128171 or 14%. Out of this area, 13000 million ha have been gazetted as forest reserves
while about 1.6 million ha of the gazetted forest reserves are under water catchments
management. Table 2.2 shows the main cover types in Tanzania.




                                            16
Table 2.2: Main landuse/cover types

Cover type                   Area (sq km        Area in %
Agriculture                  128171             14
Built-up area                1545               0.16
Bushland                     234983             25
Grassland                    151128             16
Mangrove forest              1512               0.16
Forest                       47617              5
Woodland                     313871             33
Bare soil                    1411               0.15
Forest plantation            1093               0.12
Wetland                      57768              6
Source: Africover Map of 2002

2.8     Wildlife resources

Tanzania has a rich and diverse spectrum of fauna including a wide variety of endemic
species and sub-species. The most common game species, includes buffalo, wildebeest,
hippo, elephant, zebra, impala, bushbuck and reedbuck, and predators such as the leopard
and lion are widely distributed throughout the country. The diversity and degree of
endemism in the country is more pronounced for primates (20 species where 4 are
endemic), antelopes (34 species where 2 are endemic), fish (many species endemic in
Lake Victoria, Tanganyika and Nyasa and other small lakes and rivers), reptiles (290
species where 75 are endemic), amphibians (numerous where 40 are endemic),
invertebrates and plants (around 11,000 species including many that are endemic).
Besides, the diversity and high degree of endemism, Tanzania possesses important
populations of species that are threatened, but are also widespread across Africa. These
include endangered wild dog, black rhinoceros and slender – snorted crocodile,
chimpanzee, cheetah and African elephant.

2.8.1   Wildlife protected areas

Tanzania boasts of an extensive wildlife protected area network, covering about 28% of
the total land area. Out of this, 4% fall under the category of National Parks (NPs), 15%
Game Reserves (GRs), 1% the Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA), and 8% Game
Controlled Areas (GCAs). About 3% of protected areas devoted to wildlife conservation
overlap with forest reserves. Also, significant numbers of wildlife abounds in many
unsettled areas popularly known as “open areas? as well as in village lands. Some of
these areas constitute important migratory routes, wildlife corridors and dispersal areas.
Currently, there are 14 national parks, all together covering an area of about 141,090 sq.
km and two new ones are still in the establishment process; 33 game reserves with a total
area of approximately 121,152 sq. km; 43 game controlled areas covering more that
63,815 sq. km and the Ngorongoro Conservation Area with 8,292 sq. km (See Figure
2.7).




                                           17
Figure 2.6: Tanzania land cover map for year 2002




                                         18
Figure 2.7: Protected areas in Tanzania
Source: Wildlife Division 2004




                                          19
The following is a more detailed explanation of the major protected areas:

Arusha National Park

Arusha national Park covers an area of about 137 km2. It is located near Arusha town
between the peaks of Mountains Kilimanjaro and Meru. The park and town derive their
name from the Wa-Arusha people who traditionally lived in this area. The Ngurdoto
Crater, Momela Lakes, the highland montane forest, and the rugged mount Meru (about
4,575 m above sea level) are the four distinctive features of the park. The park has a
wealth of wildlife including colobus monkeys, velver monkeys, bushbacks, buffaloes, red
forest duikers, hippos, elephants and giraffes. Bird life especially waterfowl is abundant
and interesting.

Gombe National Park

It is situated 16 km, north of Kigoma town in western Tanzania. Gombe National park
occupies 52 km2 of land. The beauty of Gombe National Park is unique; it is a park
without roads, where you can walk and experience nature with all your senses. Due to its
altitude, the park’s vegetation varies from evergreen forests of tall trees to open
woodlands and grasslands. Common mammals found in the park are forest species
mostly primates. These include chimpanzees, baboons, blue monkeys, red tailed
monkeys and red colobus monkeys. In a sense, the park is indeed an island of wilderness
surrounded on three sides by cultivation and on the north by the Lake Tanganyika.

Katavi National Park

Covering an area of 2253 km2 Katavi National Park is located in Mpanda Districts,
Rukwa Region about 40 km south east of Mpanda town. The park is famous for its
undisturbed natural face compared to other parks in the country. Major features of
attraction include Lake Katavi with its vast short grass flood plans in the north, palm
fringed Lake Chada in the Southeast and Katuma River. Animals found in the park
include zebras, sable and roan antelopes, elands, leopard, elephants, buffalos and lions.
Waterfowls also abound.

Kilimanjaro National Park

With an area of 756 km2, Kilimanjaro National Park exists to preserve Mount
Kilimanjaro’s outstanding scenic features and its flora and fauna. At an altitude of 5895
m above mean sea level, Mount Kilimanjaro is the highest mountain in Africa, the
highest freestanding mountain in the world and one of the largest volcanoes ever to burst
through the earth’s crust. Attractive features include one extinct volcano, Shira (3962m)
and two dormant volcanoes peak, Mawenzi (5149 m) and Kibo (5895 m).

Also, significant numbers of mammals, birds and insects inhabit the area. Mammals
include elephants, buffalos, elands, duikers, leopards, baboons, blue monkeys and black
and white colobus monkeys. The park is also frequented with colorful birds.



                                           20
Lake Manyara National Park

It is located 125 km west of Arusha town, under the wall of the Great Rift Valley. The
park is about 330 km2 in size of which Lake Manyara covers 230 km2. It contains a
large variety of habitats such as the rift wall, the ground water forest, Acacia woodland,
area of open grassland, to mention but a few thus being able to support large number of
species. The most famous spectacle in the park is the tree-climbing lions, which are
occasionally seen along branches of Acacia trees. Other animals found in this area
include elephants, leopard, impala, hippos as well as millions of birds (pelicans and
flamingos). Lake Manyara national Park has the highest population of elephants per
square km in the country.

Ngorongoro Crater

This remarkable and world famous geographic feature is a “caldera? – a collapsed
volcano. There are several prides of lion, and some of the last surviving rhino to be
found in Tanzania. The alkaline soda lake is home to huge flocks of flamingos, a
remarkable and unforgettable sight. The whole crater has a quite unique almost magical
atmosphere. Also there is a place called Olduvai Gorge found in Ngorongoro crater,
which is a historical site considered as a seat of humanity after the discovery of the
earliest specimen of the human genus, Homo habilis.

Tarangire National Park

Covering approximately 2600 km2, Tarangire National park is second, only to the
Ngorongoro Crater, in the concentrations of wildlife to be seen in the dry season. It lies
to the south of large open grass plains of southern Maasai land, 115 km from Arusha
along the Arusha-Dodoma road. The features of Tarangire which correlate with the type
of animals residing in the area are grassland and flood plains. Tarangire is commonly
famous for its tree-climbing pythons, zebras, hartebeasts, elephants, buffalos, waterbucks,
gazelles, oryx and abundant birdlife.

Ruaha National Park

Covering an area of 10,300 km2, Ruaha National Park is the second largest park in
Tanzania. Ruaha national Park lies in the central part of Tanzania just west of Iringa
highlands. It is also the second largest elephant sanctuary in the country, next to Selous
Game Reserve. The game animals found here are herds of elephant and buffalo. The
exciting Great Ruaha River features are larger number of hippos and crocodiles. During
the dry season the river attracts great number of game: giraffe, warthog and eland. In the
plains, ostrich, cheetah and Grant’s gazelle can be seen. The park offers a paradise of the
outstanding natural world as it lies within a belt which interfaces species of Fauna and
Flora of southern and northern Africa.

Serengeti Nation Park

The Serengeti national Park with 14763 km2 is one of the largest wildlife sanctuaries in
the world and it is the site of one of the most breathtaking events in the animal kingdom,

                                            21
the migration of thousands of wildebeest. It was accepted by the World heritage
Convention as a World heritage Site and Biosphere Reserve in 1981. It is about 329 km
from Arusha town. The national Park has large number of species of plain animals, from
a hare to the elephant and a wonderful selection of birdlife.

Mikumi National Park

The park occupies an area of about 3237 km2. It is found in Mkata river plain bordered by
the Ukiruguru mountain range to the east and Rubebo Mountains to the west. The most
attractive wild life animals include buffaloes, elephants, giraffe, zebra, wildebeests and
wild dogs to mention a few. The park is passed by the main road, the Dar es Salaam
Tunduma. Therefore, a great precaution has to be taken during the transportation of
stocks from the Southern highlands zone to Dar es Salaam port which will be used as an
exit point.

Selous National Reserve

This reserve is one of the most remote and least visited game parks in Africa. It occupies
an area of about 15,000 square miles and it is the largest world game reserve. Interesting
uniqueness of the game is that it can be explored by boat sailing through swamps and
lagoons. It has the world’s largest big games which include elephants, buffaloes,
rhinoceros and it contains African’s concentration of hippopotamus, crocodiles and wild
dogs.


2.9    Social Economic Aspects

2.9.1 Population

According to the 2002 census the country’s total population stood at 33.5 million (URT,
2003). The population of the country has nearly trebled in the four decades, growing at an
annual average growth of 3.22% between 1967 and 1978; at the rate of 2.8% between
1978 and 1988 and 2.9% between 1988 and 2002 (URT, 1967, 1978, 1988 and 2002).
The high growth rates of population in Tanzania is brought about by high fertility, and
declining mortality levels (URT, 2005). The decline in mortality levels is due to
improvement in health, living conditions and nutritional conditions in both rural and
urban areas. According to the 2002 Population and Housing Census, life expectancy at
birth for Tanzanians is 51 years. The population of Tanzania has continued to be
predominantly rural even though the proportion of urban population has been increasing
over time. The proportion of urban population was just 6% in 1967 compared to 18% in
1988 and 23% in 2002. Increasing rural to urban migration contributes significantly to the
growth of urban population in the country.

Just as there has been an increase in population, a similar trend has been observed in
increase in population density. The high increase is observed in areas with better
livelihood opportunities especially in fertile land for agricultural purposes and mining
activities. Also high population increase is found in areas with high employment
opportunities especially urban areas. In 1967 the average density was 14 persons per

                                           22
square kilometer. However, by 2002 this figure had increased to 39 persons per square
kilometer (Figure 2.8). Dar es Salaam has had the highest increase in population density,
in 1967 it was 256 peoples per square kilometer and by 2002 it had an average of 1793.
Population densities in the three municipalities of Dar es Saam have increased more than
four fold between 1967 and 2002.


2.9.2 Settlement distribution

The present settlement pattern of Tanzania is distinctively marked by the two categories
of urban and rural settlements (see Figure 2.9). The urban centers have been increasing
over time. At the time of independence there were only 8 regional towns (urban centres)
while in 1967 already there were 21 settlements classified as urban centres
accommodating 5% of the total national population. In the year 1978, this number had
grown to 52 and further to 286 urban centres in 1988 accommodating approximately 13%
and 17% of the total Country’s population respectively. In 2002, there were a total of 205
urban centres accommodating 23% of the Total Population (NHP, 2002; URT 2002). In
2005, the government promoted Mwanza, Tanga and Mbeya from Municipality to City
status making a total of 4 cities together with Dar es Salaam City. Arusha Municipality
was recently promoted to a city status, making a total of 5 cities in the country.

The overall hierarchy of settlements in Tanzania is therefore depicted by 5 cities (Dar es
Salaam, Mwanza, Mbeya and Tanga and Arusha), 13 municipalities (Dodoma, Arusha,
Moshi, Morogoro, Mtwara Mikindani, Songea, Iringa, Singida, Tabora, Shinyanga,
Bukoba, Kigoma and Musoma), 9 towns (such as, Njombe, Korogwe, etc), 86 Townships
(Kulaba and Mkai, 2004). Until 2006, reports from the Ministry of Local Government
showed that there were 10,334 registered Villages. The pattern of these settlements
follows the general pattern of population distribution country wide.




                                           23
Figure 2.8: Tanzania population density by Region (2002)




                                         24
Figure 2.9: Settlements distribution in Tanzania




                                           25
2.9.3 Road Infrastructures

The total road network in Tanzania (Figure 2.10) covers about 85,000 km, of which trunk
roads take 12%; regional roads 24%; district roads 24%; urban roads 1%, and
unclassified roads take 35% (URT, 2006), whereas 40% of the total road network is
bituminized. Trunk roads are the national and international through routes, which link
several regions and provide access to important border posts. The Trunk roads network is
divided into nine principal corridors, including the main roads in Dar es Salaam City. The
nine trunk roads corridors are briefly explained below.

   1) The TANZAM Corridor which extends from Dar es Salaam – Morogoro –
      Mikumi (with a link of Ifakara to Mahenge) – Iringa – Mafinga (with a link to
      Mgololo) – Makambako – Mbeya (with a link to Itungi Port and Malawi border) –
      toTunduma (Total distance 1,328.5 km).
   2) The North – East Corridor which extends from Dar es Salaam - Chalinze – Segera
      (with a link to Tanga and Horohoro) – Same (with a link to Gonja – Mkomazi) –
      Himo (with a link to Holili and Marangu – Tarakea) –Moshi – Arusha to
      Namanga (Total distance 950km).
   3) Southern coastal corridor, which extends from Dar es Salaam – Lindi – Mtwara
      (566km).
   4) Central corridor from Morogoro on TANZAM – Dodoma – Mwanza – Rusumo
      and Kobero (Burundi border) in the west (1584km).
   5) Lake circuit from Sirari on Kenyan border to Musoma – Mwanza – Bukoba and
      Mutukula on the border with Uganda (1019km).
   6) Southern corridor (1326km) linking Lindi – Mtwara – Songea to Makambako on
      the TANZAM and to Mbambabay on Lake Nyasa.
   7) Great North corridor (1024km) that extends from Iringa on the TANZAM
      Corridor to Arusha - Namanga.
   8) Western corridor (1286km) from Tunduma on the TANZAM Corridor to
      Sumbawanga – Mpanda – Uvinza – Kigoma – Nyakanazi and Nyakahura on the
      Lake Circuit Corridor.
   9) Mid-west corridor extending from the Central corridor in the east to the
      TANZAM corridor in the south west.

Analysis on the conditions of trunk and regional roads in Tanzania shows that 51% of the
roads are in good condition, 33% in fair condition and 11% are in poor condition. Table
2.3 shows the road conditions for roads in Tanzania.




                                           26
Table 2.3: Condition of trunk and regional roads in Tanzania (December 2005)

     ROAD        Good condition    Fair condition       Poor condition   TOTAL
     TYPE        (Km)       (%)    (km)        (%)      (Km)       (%)   (Km)        (%)
  TRUNK ROADS
  Paved        2,720.07     70     974.53          25   227.00     6     3,913.77    100
  Unpaved      2,925.99     49     2,203.52        37   897.06     15    6,020.56    100
  SUB-TOTAL 5,646.06        57     3,178.05        32   1,124.06   11    9,934.33    100
  REGIONAL ROADS
  Paved        250.50       77     65.49           20   11.13      3     327.45      100
  Unpaved      8,867.85     48     6,371.44        34   3,353.39   18    18,629.94   100
  SUB-TOTAL 9,118.35        48     6,436.93        34   3,364.52   18    18,957.39   100
  TOTAL        14,764.41    51     9,614.98        33   4,488.58   16    28,891.72   100
(Source: TANROADS in URT (2006))



2.9.4 Ports and marine transport

Tanzania has three main seaports namely Dar es Salaam, Mtwara and Tanga, while
smaller seaport facilities exist at Kilwa, Lindi, Mafia, Pangani and Bagamoyo. Among
the three main seaports, Dar es Salaam Port has the highest capacity that enables the port
to handle comparatively larger quantities of freight. In the period 2001 – 2005 a number
of countries had their traffic (import and export) pass through Dar es Salaam Port,
including Zambia, DRC, Burundi, Rwanda, Malawi, Uganda, as well as Tanzania itself.
Principal commodities handled at Dar es Salaam Port in that period include bulk oils,
molasses, Copper (for Zambia and DRC), Tin and Zinc plates as well as other mining and
quarry products. Other commodities were oil seed cake, coffee, cotton and cashew nuts,
maize meal and flour, rice and rice meal, hides and skin, sisal, sugar, tea, tobacco and
other general cargo.




                                              27
Figure 2.10: Roads, railways and airports of Tanzania




                                          28
2.10   Hospital Facilities

Tanzania has about 4,961 health facilities that are owned by both public and private
sector. Out of these the public sector has 409 health centers and 2450 dispensaries. The
health centers and dispensaries are linked to 74 district and regional hospitals and four
specialized teaching hospitals. There are about 65,000 health workers engaged in health
care and delivery. 70% of the health workers belong to the public sector. Table 2.4
shows the type and number of the health facilities in the country.

Table 2.4: Types of health facilities in the country
 S/N       Type of facility                          Number
 1         Consultancy/specialized hospital                 8
 2         Regional hospitals                              17
 3         District Hospitals                              55
 4         Other hospitals                                 84
 5         Health center                                  479
 6         Dispensaries                                  3975
 7         Private laboratories                           223
 8         Nursing homes                                    6
 9         Private X ray units                             27
           Total                                        4,961

The total number of patients who attended the hospitals, dispensaries and health centres
in the country grew from 7,687,329 in 1995 to 16,561,435 in 2000. During the same
period the number of people per hospital decreased slightly from 178,000 to 168,000
indicating that there has been a slight increase in the number hospitals as compared to
population growth (URT, 2004).

In the current situation there is no specialized health centre or hospital to deal with
pesticide poisoning. However, as described above there are hospitals in each district and
regional centers which have a capacity to deal with general health problems including
cases related to pesticides poisoning. Therefore it can be said that in any case of pesticide
poisoning during safeguarding operation in Tanzania it will be dealt with or attended
accordingly.

Tanzania like other countries is prone to a number of natural and human made disasters.
Consequently, a system is in place for either reducing the risks for the occurrence of
disaster or responding to disaster when they occur. At the national level the Disaster
Management Department (DMD) in the Prime Ministers office is responsible for the
overall management of the disasters in the country. At the regional, district and village
levels disaster committees have been set to respond to disasters. Similarly, emergency
units in the Ministry of Home Affairs and Emergency and Response Section in the
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare are in place. Therefore based on the facilities
available and the institution setup for emergency response in the country it can be
concluded that the health sector in collaboration with other government institutions can
cope with disaster related to pesticide accident.


                                             29
                                CHAPTER THREE

3.0 POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK

3.1    Sectoral Policies

Tanzania is committed to attaining sustainable development goal. This urge is envisaged
in the recent policy review and formulation processes to incorporate environmental
management aspects in their lattice. Among others, the objective of these policies is to
regulate the development undertaken within respective sectors so that they are not
undertaken at the expense of environment. The national policies, strategies, acts and the
institutional framework as well as international conventions and treaties that underpin the
management of obsolete pesticides are briefly analysed below.

3.1.1 National Environmental Policy (1997)

The environmental policy document seeks to provide the framework for making
fundamental changes that are needed to bring environmental consideration into the
mainstream of decision- making in the country.

One of the overall objectives of the National Environmental Policy as a national
framework for environmental management in the country is to prevent and control
degradation of land, water, vegetation and air, which constitute our life support systems.
In view of this, the proposed project for safeguarding and disposal of obsolete pesticides
for protection of public health and the environment is inline with the policy.

Specific policy issues regarding the agriculture sector, which are pertinent to the project
are strengthening of environmental sound use, monitoring, registration and management
of agrochemicals and control of agricultural runoffs of agrochemicals to minimise
pollution of both surface and groundwater. The proposed project, therefore, will
implement key objectives articulated in the environmental policy document.

3.1.2 The Wildlife Policy (1998)

The vision of the wildlife sector for the next 20 years conforms to the Development
vision 2025 for Tanzania on sustainable environment and socio-economic transformation.
Among others, the vision of the wildlife sector is to:

       Promote conservation of biological diversity;
       Administer, regulate and develop wildlife resources;
       Involve all stakeholders in wildlife conservation and sustainable utilization, as
       well as in fair equitable sharing of benefits;
       Promote sustainable utilization of wildlife resources; and
       Contribute to poverty alleviation and improve the quality of livelihood in
       Tanzania.


                                            30
The Wildlife Policy envisages addressing the following national challenges:

       To conserve areas with great biological diversity which are representative of the
       major habitats of Tanzania;
       To continue to support and where necessary, enlarge the protected area network
       as the core of conservation activities;
       To promote involvement of local communities participation in wildlife
       conservation in and outside the protected area network;
       To increase foreign exchange earnings;
       To integrate wildlife conservation with rural development;
       To foster sustainable and legal use of wildlife resources;
       To ensure that wildlife conservation competes with other forms of land use;
       To enhance the recognition of the intrinsic value of wildlife to rural people; and
       To minimize human-wildlife conflicts whenever it occurs.

There is need to synchronize and implement strategies to protect and utilize wildlife,
management and development of protected areas and promotion of international
cooperation. In order to address the mentioned challenges above; among others, the
strategies to be undertaken include:

       Continue to establish the protected area on the basis of ecosystem planning;
       Stress maintenance and development of protected area network in order to
       enhance biodiversity.
       Promote conservation of wildlife and its habitat outside core areas by establishing
       wildlife management areas;
       Transfer for management of wildlife management area to local communities thus
       taking care of corridors, migration routes and buffer zones;
       Prevent illegal use of wildlife;
       Promote the use of protected areas to provide government revenue, employment
       and other benefits to Tanzania;
       Create the opportunities for Tanzania to become involved in wildlife industry;
       Create an enabling environment which will ensure that legal and sustainable
       wildlife scheme directly benefits local communities;
       Promote greater public awareness and understanding of wildlife issues;
       Retain sufficient revenue from wildlife utilization in the protected areas for
       management and development purposes.
       Encourage involvement of donors to support the country to conserve wildlife
       resources;
       Encourage participation in implementation of relevant treaties concerned with
       conservation of wildlife;
       Co-operate with neighbouring countries in the conservation of transboundary
       ecosystem; etc.

Since some of the routes, which will be used for transportation of obsolete pesticides to


                                           31
exportation ports should it be necessary to export them for treatment abroad pass through
wildlife reserves and national parks, care will be exercised to avoid exposing animals to
the pesticides through accidental spillages. The proposed project will put in place
contingency plans to handle cases of spillages should they happen for safeguarding the
integrity of wildlife ecosystems in accordance with the standing provisions in the wildlife
regulations.

3.1.3 The National Water Policy (2002)

The overall objective of the policy is to develop a comprehensive framework for
sustainable management of the national water resources. The policy seeks to ensure that
water plays important role in poverty alleviation. The policy calls for integrated water
resources management whereby a wider scope of uses for water is considered in the
overall plan of the water resources.

The policy recognizes that agrochemicals including pesticides are serious water
pollutants and as such it advocates creation of public awareness in the importance of
protecting water resources from pollution including that resulting from inappropriate use
of agrochemicals. Therefore, safeguarding and disposal of obsolete pesticides will protect
water sources from pollution resulting from improper disposal and storage of obsolete
pesticides as advocated in the National Water Policy.

3.1.4 National Gender Policy (1999)

The key objective of the policy is to provide guidelines that will ensure that gender
sensitive plans and strategies in all sectors and institutions are developed. While the
policy aims at establishing strategies to eradicate poverty, it puts emphasis on gender
quality and equal opportunity of both men and women to participate in development
undertakings and to value the role-played by each member of the society. The gender
dimension in this project will be aligned so as to provide equal opportunity to both men
and women.

3.1.5 National Land Policy (1995)

The overall objective of the policy is to promote and ensure a secure land tenure system,
to encourage the optimal use of land resources, and to facilitate broad-based social and
economic development without upsetting or endangering the ecological balance of the
environment. Specifically, the policy aims at ensuring that existing rights in land
especially customary rights of small holders are recognized, clarified, and secured in law
and that land is put to its most productive use to promote rapid social and economic
development of the country among others. The proposed project on safeguarding and
disposal of obsolete pesticides will abide to the provisions of the policy in land
acquisition and management should it be absolutely necessary to displace people in the
course of cleaning-up sites contaminated with pesticides.




                                            32
The policy has proposed the formation of an Inter-Ministerial Co-ordination Committee
for Consultation on issues of granting of mining claims, hunting licenses, timber
harvesting licenses, water rights and other leases. The issuing of such permits or leases
and claims normally conflicts with other land uses.

The policy directs protection of sensitive areas which include water catchment areas,
small islands, border areas, beaches, mountains, forests, national parks, rivers, river
basins and bank, seasonal migration routes of wildlife, national heritage and areas of
biodiversity. According to the policy, these areas or parts of them should not be allocated
to individuals. The proposed project will ensure that ecologically sensitive areas such as
wildlife reserves and national parks, wetlands, rivers, river basins, national and
international heritage sites and areas of biodiversity are protected from pollution in
compliance with the stipulations of the policy.

3.1.6 Agriculture and Livestock Policy (1997)

Objectives of the Agriculture and Livestock Policy (1997) are to promote integrated and
sustainable use and management of natural resources, ensure basic food security and
improve standards of nutrition and improve standards of living in rural areas and promote
access of women and youths to land, credit, education and information.

The policy also recognizes the dependence of agriculture on environmental resources,
hence the need for environmental protection. It identifies the need for developing
mechanism for linking agriculture sector with other sectors in protecting and enhancing
the environment. The policy also recognizes the important role played by women in
agriculture, hence the need for gender sensitization.

The policy advocates the strengthening of agro-chemical monitoring and registration as
well as controlling of agricultural run-offs of agrochemicals to minimise pollution of both
surface and groundwater. Promotion of application of environmentally friendly tsetse fly
eradication methods is admonished in the policy. However, the policy is silent about
management of agrochemicals and pesticides in particular in an environmentally friendly
manner.

3.1.7 National Health Policy (2003)

One of the objectives of the National Health Policy (2003) is to reduce the burden of
disease, maternal and infant mortality and increase life expectancy through the provision
of adequate and equitable maternal and child health services, facilitate the promotion of
environmental health and sanitation, promotion of adequate nutrition, control of
communicable diseases and treatment of common conditions. This objective can be
achieved by management and control of chemicals in a proper manner among other
approaches.




                                            33
According to the policy, the Ministry of Health through the Government Chemist
Laboratory Agency is responsible for management and control of chemical hazards and
contamination of their products. The priority areas identified by the policy include: -
   Raising public awareness on safe chemicals use and handling;
   Establishing legislation and regulatory instruments to manage chemicals;
   Establishing enforcement structure for the existing legislation and regulations;
   Provision of adequate national capacity to ensure safety through management and
   control of chemicals and their products;
   Providing guidelines on proper disposal practices of waste/expired chemicals;
   Establishing a national information system for chemicals management and
   establishing a National register for chemicals.

The proposed project is in concordance with the provisions of the Policy since its main
objective is to safeguard and dispose of obsolete pesticides in a way that does not cause
harm to human health and the environment.

3.1.8 The National Disaster Management Policy (2004)

The National Disaster Management Policy (2004) and the National Operational
Guidelines (NOG) for disaster management (2003) set the policy framework that aims at
developing adequate capacity for co-ordination and co-operation for comprehensive
disaster management among key players at all levels. The purpose of the policy has been
to develop higher level of preparedness, mitigation capacities for all types of disasters; to
promote public knowledge and awareness of disaster management and, to establish and
maintain an effective institutional arrangement for co-ordination and collaboration. Other
objectives of the policy are to promote research, information generation and
dissemination as well as mainstreaming disaster management issues into development
plans and other sector policies and programmes at all levels.

The National Disaster Management Policy (2004) implores all stakeholders to ensure that
disaster prevention and mitigation activities are included in all sector plans. All
stakeholders are urged to ensure adherence to the laws and regulations governing all
aspects of disaster management relating to land use, fire, environment and industrial
waste. In this respect the proposed project on safeguarding and disposal of obsolete
pesticides is inline with the disaster management policy.

The Policy also sets clear responsibilities for other stakeholders including the civil
society, non-governmental organisations, the media and humanitarian agencies. In
addition, the policy recognises the importance of environmental conservation in
minimising the impact of natural disasters and encourages capacity building to create
awareness on the importance of environmental management among local communities.
For early warning systems, the policy stipulates that effective disaster manageability
depends on the level of development of warning systems. It states that the severity of
disaster consequences depends on the interplay between the warning issued and the
degree of public response to the warning. Warning systems need to be known, developed
and tested continuously in order to make them effective. However, the policy points out



                                             34
that the efficiency of all units mandated with the obligation of early warning is
inadequate because they lack financial resources, expertise and state-of-the-art
equipment.

As required by the National Disaster management Policy, contingency plans will be put
in place in case of spillage of pesticides during transportation for minimising the impacts
of pesticides to public health and the environment.

3.2    Legal Framework

This section gives brief description of the existing legislation on environmental
management in Tanzania, with special focus to EIA conduction. In principle, there are
several enacted laws that provides for environmental protection in Tanzania. The
umbrella framework is the Environmental Management Act (2004), which requires
conduction of EIA for all development projects in the country. Legislations pertinent to
the proposed project are also reviewed.

3.2.1 Environmental Management Act Cap 191

The Environmental Management Act, 2004 seeks to provide for legal and institutional
framework for sustainable management of environment in implementation of the
National Environment Policy. The Act outlines principles for environment management
such as precautionary principle; polluter pays principle; and the principle of public
participation in development policies, plans and processes for the management of the
environment. The Act also provides for impact and risk assessments, prevention and
control of pollution, waste management, environmental quality standards, public
participation as well as compliance and enforcement.

The Act puts in place conducive environment for the participation of the private sector in
the promotion and protection of the environment by providing economic and financial
incentives designed to influence behaviour of economic agents that will ensure
sustainable use and protection of natural resource.

The Act contains provisions which recognize the need for the empowerment of the
communities to be able to sustainably manage the environment in their respective areas
and in the achievement of the goals set for poverty eradication and securing of their
livelihoods.

Only parts of the Act, which are relevant to the proposed project, are discussed
hereunder.

Provisions on management of the environment under Part V provide for Environmental
Protected Areas and Environmental Management Plans for national protected areas and
for the conservation and protection of such important elements of the environment as
environmentally sensitive areas, riverbank, lakes, lakeshores, wetlands, mountains,
landscapes conservation of biological diversity, access to genetic resources of Tanzania,



                                            35
and handling of genetically modified organisms and products. There are also provisions
for the protection of cultural heritage, protection of atmosphere and climate change. The
Act contains provisions regulating processes or substance dangerous to the environment.
The Act delegates to the Minister legislative powers to regulate persistent organic
pollutants, hazardous chemicals and pesticides, and to provide for inculcation of cleaner
production and sustainable consumption measures.

Part VI provides for Environmental Impact Assessment which is recognized under
several international environmental agreements as a tool for systematic examination
which is conducted to determine whether or not a programme, activity or project will
have any adverse impacts on the environment and their mitigation. The Act makes
elaborate provisions on projects that will require prior environmental assessments and
categorically provides that only registered experts or firms of experts will be allowed to
conduct environmental impact assessments.

Specific pollution prevention and control measures are provided for under Part VIII of
this Act. This Part has elaborate provisions prohibiting pollution, and powers of the
Minister to make regulation to prevent and control pollution. Amongst the other pollution
prevention and control measures include prohibition of water pollution, prohibition of
discharge of hazardous substances including pesticides, chemicals and oil into
environment media, and prohibition of certain prescribed activities or process.

Part IX provides for Waste Management. This Part specifically makes separate provisions
governing the management of solid waste; litter; disposal and transportation of liquid
waste and sewerage; management of gaseous waste and management of hazardous waste.
Local government authorities are given specific obligation to minimize solid, liquid,
gaseous and hazardous wastes falling under their respective jurisdictions.

The power to make environmental quality standards is provided for under Part X. This
part recognizes the important role of the National Environmental Standards Committee of
the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS).

Part XI provides for restoration, easements and conservation orders. Environmental
restoration orders are used in order to ensure that a person who has degraded the
environment restores it as near as possible to a state in which it was before the taking of
the action which is the subject matter of the order. Environmental easement orders are
normally imposed and attached on a burdened land in order to facilitate the conservation
and enhancement of the environment through the imposition of obligations in respect of
the use of that land. Also where it is necessary an environmental conservation order may
be imposed on burdened land for the creation of easements for the purposes of
preservation of the environment and its resources.

The functions of NEMC under this new legislation is mentioned in Sections 17 and 18,
and includes undertaking enforcement, compliance, review and monitoring of
environmental impact assessments. NEMC shall specifically review and recommend for
approval of environmental impact assessment statements.



                                            36
3.2.2 Environmental Impact Assessment and Audit Regulations 2005

The objectives of environmental impact assessment under these Regulations are, among
others, to: (a) establish before a decision is taken by any entity intending to undertake any
activity, impacts that may likely or to a significant extent affect the environment or have
environmental effects on those activities; (b) ensure that environmental considerations are
explicitly addressed and incorporated into the development decision making process; (c)
anticipate and avoid, minimize or offset the adverse significant biophysical, social and
other relevant effects of development proposal; (d) protect the productivity and capacity
of natural systems and the ecological processes which maintain their functions; and (e)
promote development that is sustainable and optimizes resources use and management
opportunities.

Steps for conducting EIA as provided in the Fourth Schedule of the EIA and Audit
Regulations of 2005 are given below:

Steps 1: Project Registration and Screening
1. Developer or proponent submits a dully filled registration form and project brief to the
Council (as per Regulation 9).
2. Council then undertakes a review of the project brief (in accordance with Regulation
10 and 11).
3. Council undertakes the screening of the proposed project in accordance with
Regulation 12.

In making the decision whether full, preliminary or no EIA is required, consideration of
the following factors is taken: sensitivity of the environment, location of a project,
technology used, concern of the public, land use consideration, magnitude/scale of
environmental impacts and any other relevant factors.

Steps 2: Scoping
The developer, proponent, environmental experts or firm of experts shall undertake a
scoping exercise in order to: (a) identify the main stakeholders that will be negatively or
positively impacted by the proposed project; (b) identify stockholder’s main concerns
regarding the proposed project, (c) identify main project alternatives; (d) identify likely
impacts, data requirements, tool and techniques for impact identification, prediction and
evaluation; (i) identify project boundaries in terms of spatial, temporal and institutional
aspects; (ii) environmental experts or firm of experts must ensure there is adequate
stakeholder participation in this and all the other stages of the environmental impact
assessment; and (e) the developer or the environmental experts or firm of experts
prepares a scoping report and terms of reference for the environmental impact assessment
of a proposed project and submits to the Council for approval.

Steps 3: Baseline Study
(i) The environmental experts or firm of experts undertake detailed survey of the existing
social, economic, physical, ecological, social-cultural and institutional environment




                                             37
within the project boundary area; and (ii) The consultant must ensure adequate
stakeholder participation is engaged.

Steps 4: Impact Assessment
(i) The consultant undertakes impact identification, impact prediction and evaluation of
impact significance following a variety of appropriate techniques and approaches as
specified in the guidelines issued under this Regulation.
(ii) The environmental experts or firm of experts must ensure that concerns and views
from stakeholders are fully taken into account during the assessment of impacts; and
(iii) The environmental experts or firm of experts assesses all possible alternatives and
their impacts and recommends most appropriate options.

Steps 5: Impact mitigation and enhancement measures
(i) environmental experts or firm of experts prepare impact mitigation measures for all
negative significant impacts, either by elimination, reduction or to remedy them;
(ii) environmental experts or firm of experts prepare enhancement measures for all
significant positive effects arising from the project so as to increase the contribution from
the project to social development and environmental conservation;
(iii) environmental experts or firm of experts prepare Mitigation and Enhancement Plan
for all significant negative impacts and positive effects, with details about institutional
responsibilities and costs where appropriate; and
(iv) environmental experts or firm of experts prepare a Monitoring Plan and
Environmental and Social Management Plan with details about institutional
responsibilities, monitoring framework, parameters, indicators for monitoring and costs
of monitoring where appropriate.

Steps 6: Preparation of Environmental Impact Statement
(i) environmental experts or firm of experts prepare an environmental impact statement
adhering to contents outlined in these Regulations;
(ii) environmental impact statement must be accompanied with a stand-alone non-
technical summary in both Kiswahili and English languages; and
(iii) All technical details, including assessment methodologies, list of consulted
stakeholders and their signatures, drawings and terms of references are put in the
appendix.

Steps 7: Review of Environmental Impact Statement
(i) Council reviews the Environmental Impact Statement adhering to the review criteria
and any guidelines that may be issued under these Regulations; (ii) Council may call for a
public hearing and public review of the Environmental Impact Statement in accordance
with conditions and procedures stipulated under these Regulations; and
(iii) Council shall submit review report to the Minister with its recommendations and all
documents used in the review for approval or disapproval.




                                             38
Review Criteria

The Council undertakes review of an environmental impact statement in accordance with
the following criteria:

(a) Review Area 1
Description of the Development Local Environment and Baselineconditions:
(i) description of the development; and (ii) local environmental and baseline conditions.

(b) Review Area 2
Identification and Evaluation of key impacts:
(i) identification and evaluation of key impacts; (ii) residual impacts; (iii) cumulative
impacts; (iv) prediction of impact magnitude; and (v) assessment of impact significance.

(c) Review Area 3
Alternatives, mitigations, EMP, and commitment: (i) alternatives; (ii) mitigations; (iii)
Environmental Management Plan; and (iv) commitment.

(d) Review Area 4
Stakeholder participation and communication of results:
(i) stakeholder participation; (ii) presentation; (iii) balance; and (iv) non-technical
summary.

Onsite visits
Tha Council may arrange for onsite visits with the developer or proponent for purposes of
inspecting the project or undertaking which is the subject of review.

Steps 8: Environmental Monitoring and Auditing
The Council shall conduct environmental monitoring in order to evaluate the
performance of the mitigation measures following the prepared Environmental and Social
Management Plan as well as Monitoring Plan, thus:
(i) monitoring include the verification of impacts, adherence to approved plans,
environmental standards and general compliance of terms and conditions set out in the
Environmental Impact Assessment certificate; (ii) developer can also undertake
monitoring of the implementation of the project to ensure if mitigation measures are
effective; (iii) both the developer and the Council collects data that can be used in future
projects and for environmental management; (iv) Council and the developer undertakes
environmental audits for the project; (v) mechanisms for stakeholder participation during
the monitoring and auditing process must be defined and followed through; (vi) the
auditing exercise may focus in the following areas: (a) implementation/enforcement
audit, which takes place when the Council verifies if the mitigation measures and levels
of pollution are within limits (b) performance/regulatory audit that entails identification
of compliance to relevant legislation or safety standards (c) impact prediction audits
checks the accuracy and efficacy of the impact prediction by comparing them with
monitored impacts. (d) Council collects and compiles information arising from auditing




                                            39
for future use; and (e) developer collects data from the auditing and compiles information
for project management and also for submission to the Council.

Steps 9: Decommissioning
This is the end of the project life. The decommissioning report shall be prepared either as

part of the environmental impact statement or separately, indicating how impacts will be
dealt with, including costs of mitigation measures: (i) developer undertakes the
decommissioning of the project as per the proposals stipulated in the environmental
impact statement; (ii) Council shall continue to monitor implementation of the
decommissioning plan, including rehabilitation of the land and other resources that were
affected by the project; and (iii) The decommissioning report must ensure issues such as
welfare of workers, resource users as well as their general livelihoods are not worse off as
a result of the decommissioning.

The process for conducting full EIA in Tanzania is as depicted in Figure 3.1


Appeals

(1) Any person who is aggrieved by-
(a) a refusal to grant an environmental impact assessment certificate or by a refusal to
transfer an environmental impact assessment certificate under these Regulations;

(b) the imposition of any condition, limitation or restriction on an environmental impact
assessment certificate; (c) the revocation, suspension or variation of an environmental
impact assessment certificate issued under these Regulations; (d) the amount of money which
the person is required to pay as fees; (e) the imposition of any environmental restoration
order or environmental improvement order on the project by the Council; or (f) the approval
or reinstatement by the Minister of an environmental impact assessment certificate; may
within thirty days after the date of the decision against which he is dissatisfied, appeal to the
Environmental Appeals Tribunal. (2) A person aggrieved by a decision or order of the
Environmental Appeals Tribunal may, within thirty days of such a decision or order, appeal
against such decision or order to the High Court. (3) The fact that approval is given in respect
of an environmental impact assessment shall not be a defence to any civil action or to a
criminal prosecution under any written law.




                                               40
Figure 3.1: The EIA process




                              41
3.2.3   Land Use Planning Commission Act of 1984

The National Land Use Planning Commission was established under this act as the
principal advisory organ of the Government on all matters related to land use. Among
other things, it recommends measures to ensure that the Government policies including
those for development and conservation of land, take adequate account of their effects on
the land use, seek the advancement of scientific knowledge of changes in land use and
encourage the development of technology to prevent, or minimize adverse effects that
endanger man's health or welfare, specify standards, norms and criteria for the protection
of beneficial uses and the maintenance of the quality of the land. In accordance with the
functions mentioned above, the commission can indirectly help to prevent or minimise
pollution by restricting location of potential and actual pollution sources and not
otherwise. The proposed project seeks to eliminate sources of pollution by safeguarding
and disposing obsolete pesticides safely for protection of the environment and public
health.

3.2.4   The Water Resources Management Act, 2009

This Act provides for institutional and legal framework for sustainable management and
development of water resources; outline principles for water resources management;
provide for the prevention and control of water pollution; provide for participation of
stakeholders and the general public in implementation of the National Water Policy,
repeal of the Water Utilization (Control and Regulation) Act Cap. 331 and to provide for
related matters.The new Act intends to ensure that the nation’s water resources are
protected, used, developed, conserved, managed and controlled for basic human needs for
the present and future generation.

The Act is divided into sixteen parts. The provisions which are pertinent to the proposed
project are covered in Part II and VI of the Act. Part II of the Act provides for the
principles, and objectives of water resources management. Among the objectives and
principles include promotion of equitable access to water; polluter pays principle and the
principle of eco-system integrity. Part VI provides for protection of water resources
which include water resources classification and reserve, establishment of protected
zones, declaration of groundwater controlled areas and prevention of pollution.
Specifically, Part VI of the Act stipulates that the occupier or owner of land on which any
activity or process is or was performed (such as indiscriminate disposal of pesticides) or
undertaken, or any other situation exists which causes, has caused or is likely to cause
pollution of a water source is required to take all reasonable measures to prevent any such
pollution from occurring, continuing or recurring. The proposed project will protect water
resources from pollution and safeguard the ecological integrity of the water bodies by
disposing the obsolete pesticides in an environmentally friendly manner as required by
the Act.




                                            42
3.2.5   Merchant Shipping Act of 2003

This Act provides for the Registration and licensing of ships, to regulate proprietary
interests in ships and terms of engagement of seafarers and matters ancillary thereto; to
provide for the prevention of collisions at sea, the safety of navigation and of life at sea,
the Regulations of load lines, the carriage of bulk and dangerous cargoes, unsafe ships,
inland waterways, passenger ships, wreck and salvage, the liability of ship owners and
others and inquiries and investigations into maritime causalities. It also provide for
pollution prevention and protection of marine environment and marine security; to
consolidate the law relating to shipping and for connected matters. The Act is divided
into nineteen parts.

Part XI is the most relevant part related to the proposed project. This part of the Act
provides for carriage of bulk cargoes and dangerous cargoes. This part gives powers to
the Minister to prescribe which goods, articles or materials to be carried in a ship are
dangerous goods in accordance with the Safety Convention relating to the carriage of
dangerous goods, and such regulations shall incorporate by reference, the International
Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code of the IMO. The Minister may by regulations
prescribe-(a) the method of packing and stowing dangerous goods; (b) the quantity of
dangerous goods which may be carried in any ship; (c) the place or places within a ship
in which dangerous goods may be carried; the marking that is to be placed on any
package or container in which dangerous goods may be placed for shipment; and (d) the
precautions to be taken with respect to the carriage of dangerous goods and the powers of
inspection to determine compliance with the provisions of the regulations.

According to the International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code of the IMO,
pesticides fall under Class 6.1: toxic substances. Therefore, should it be necessary to
export by ship obsolete pesticides, which can not be treated and safely disposed of
locally, provisions of this Act shall be adhered to.

3.2.6   The Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority Act, 2001

This Act established a regulatory authority in relation to the surface and marine transport
sectors, and to provide for its operation in place of former authorities and for related
matters. The Authority takes over and continues carrying out the functions formerly of
the Tanzania Central Freight Bureau set out in section 4, 4A and 4B of the Tanzania
Central Freight Bureau Act, 1981.

In carrying out its functions, the Authority is required by the Act to strive to enhance the
welfare of Tanzania society by taking into account the need to protect and preserve the
environment among other duties. However, the policy does not articulate safety measures
to be taken during transportation of hazardous goods. Transportation of obsolete
pesticides will abide to the provisions of this Act for protection of the public health and
environment.




                                             43
3.2.7   The Public Health Act, 2009

An Act to provide for the promotion, preservation and maintenance of public health
with a view to ensuring the provisions of comprehensive, functional and sustainable
public health services to the general public and to provide for other related matters. In the
process, it is proposed to repeal the Infectious Diseases Act, Cap. 96, the Mosquito
Control Act, Cap.99 and the Internationally Notifiable Diseases (Prevention) Act, Cap.73
and to consolidate, in one piece, laws governing public and environmental health.

The law is intended to enhance public health delivery system in Tanzania and to
empower health care providers and other persons who provide health services to the
public.

The Act is divided into VII Parts.

Part I provides for preliminary provisions pertaining to the title of the proposed law,
provisions for its commencement and interpretation of terms and expressions used in the
Bill.

Part II deals with administrative matters. The Part sets out duties of the Minister
responsible for health in facilitating the effective provisions of public health services in
the country. The Part also spells out the duties and functions of the Local Government
Authorities in the promotion, implementation and powers to enforce public health
standards within their jurisdictions. It further empowers the Local Government
Authorities to make by-laws for the smooth operation of public health services.

Part III makes provisions for notification and control of Infectious diseases,
communicable and non-communicable diseases and the control of mosquitoes. It also
provides for the prevention and control of the spread of infectious diseases and
communicable diseases, vaccination against childhood diseases or other communicable
diseases. The Part further provide for the destruction and control of mosquitoes, other
disease vectors, vermins, and other disease causative agents.

Part IV relates to sanitation, housing and hygiene. The Part also makes provisions for
matters relating to nuisance, housing and human settlement, waste management,
sewerage and drainage. The Part also has provision relating to cemeteries, crematoria,
funeral homes and mortuaries. The part provides for their establishment and
management.

Part V deals with food and food hygiene, nutrition and market places. The Part also
empowers the Minister to make regulations in respect of the treatment and disposal of
unfit food. The Part also provides for prevention and abatement of nuisance.

This Part also contains provisions relating to food, food hygiene and nutrition. In this
regard, the Minister has been empowered to make regulations in respect of the treatment




                                             44
and disposal of unfit food to protect the public from food which is unfit for human
consumption. The Part also makes provisions relating to abattoirs, and their management.

Part VI deals with establishment and operation of lodging houses, guest houses, hotels,
hair dressing salons, beauty salons, barbershops and the like. Public baths, swimming
pools, sauna, massage parlours schools and the like are also contained in this Part. The
Part also empowers the Minister to make regulations in respect of matters relating to
beauty barbershops, salons and the like.

Part VII deals with miscellaneous provisions. The Part contain provisions relating to
powers of the Minister to make regulations relating to notification of infectious diseases
and communicable diseases, prevention and control of infectious diseases, control of
mosquitoes and vaccinations. It also provides for general penalty where specific penalty
has not been specified. The Part also provides for the authorized officers and their
functions and the immunity against legal proceedings of authorized officers and other
persons, in exercising the powers and performance of functions conferred under the Act.

The Part also contains provisions relating to repeal of the Infectious Diseases Act,
(Cap.96), the Internationally Notifiable Diseases (Prevention) Act, Cap.73 and the
Mosquito Control Act Cap.99. It also provides for transitional provisions.

3.2.8   Occupation Health and Safety Act (2003)

This Act repealed the Factories Ordinance; to make provisions for the safety, health and
welfare of persons at work in factories and other places of work; to provide for the
protection of persons other than persons at work against hazards to health and safety
arising out of or in connection with activities of persons at work; and to provide for
connected matters. It is a comprehensive legislation on occupational health and safety,
which is divided into 10 parts. It contains provisions for appointment of factory
inspectors and their powers. It regulates registration of factories and workplaces. It sets
forth safety, health and welfare provisions. The Act also contains special provisions
regarding safety. It deals with hazardous materials and processes. Provisions for chemical
substances, offences, penalties and legal proceedings are also covered.

The Act provides for safety measures to be taken where dangerous fumes are liable to be
present including wearing of suitable breathing apparatus and ensuring adequate supply
of air for respiration. Persons working in any process involving exposure to any injurious
or offensive substance or environment must be provided with effective protective
equipment according to the Act. Workers exposed to asphyxiant or irritants must be
provided with breathing apparatus or other equipment of the type approved by the Chief
Inspector. Part IV of the Act gives General Precautions in Handling Chemicals. The Act
specifies that where circumstances make it necessary for a worker to enter an atmosphere
contaminated by a harmful concentration of a hazardous substance, the worker shall be
made fully aware of the hazards and be provided with and wear appropriate protective
gear. The proposed project shall abide to all relevant provisions of this Act.




                                            45
3.2.9   Industrial and Consumer Chemicals (Management and Control) Act, 2003

This Act provides for the management and control of the production, importation,
transportation, exportation, storage, dealing, and disposal of chemicals and for matters
connected therewith. The Objective of this Act is to regulate the management and control
of industrial and consumer chemicals. Specifically, the Act makes provisions to how best
is to deal with chemicals used in homes, institutions of learning, workplaces, (e.g.
Industries and factories) and research institutes. The Industrial and Consumer Chemicals
(Management and Control) Act focuses on management and control of production,
import or export, transport, distribution, sale, use, storage and disposal of such chemicals.
The aim of the control and management throughout the various stages which constitute
the normal ''life-cycle'' of a chemical is to minimize potential risks to health and the
environment. This Act shall be implemented under the Government Chemist Laboratory
Agency established under the Executive Agencies Act, 1997 (No. 30 of 1997). The
Administration of this Act shall be in accordance with the Executive Agencies Act, 1997
(No. 30 of 1997). The Ministerial Advisory Board is empowered to manage and control
the industrial and consumer chemicals.

The Act is divided into six (6) main parts. Part I deals with preliminary provisions where
as Part 11 provides for the establishment and functions of the Chemicals (Management
and Control) Technical Committee and the Chemical Registration Technical sub-
Committee. However, the provision of additional sub-Committee to advise the Registrar
and The Ministerial Advisory Board of the Government Chemist Laboratory Agency on
implementation of the Act is also provided. The power and main function of the Board
shall be to manage and control chemicals through registration and issuance of certificate
to all those involved in production, importation or exportation, sale, use, transportation,
storage, distribution and disposal of chemicals. The Act provides that the Chief
Government Chemist (CGC) shall be Secretary to the Technical Committee, while the
secretariat shall include the CGC and other officers of the Government Chemist
Laboratory Agency (GCLA). Provisions on procedures of appointment of members of the
Technical Committee and sub-Committee are also provided

Part III of the Act contains provisions regarding control of production, importation,
exportation, transportation, storage, and dealing in chemical and the registration of
chemicals circulating in Tanzania is provided for. This part of the Act also provides for
types of chemicals to be registered and conditions to be followed by registered permit
holders as well as additional specific conditions that are to be fulfilled by producers, store
and warehouse operators. Furthermore, provisions are made for the registration of
producers, importers, exporters, transporters, users and sellers (dealers) in and those
operating stores and warehouses for chemicals, and the premises in which these activities
are carried out. This Part also provides for various types of restrictions, whereas severe
restrictions are strongly emphasised on other chemicals for specific reasons including
protection of health to human beings and animals or the environment. Provisions are
made for the restriction of chemicals known to be precursors of drugs of abuse. The
Government will be able to fulfil obligations under some of the International ratified
conventions, treaties and agreements, concerning control and management of hazardous



                                             46
chemicals. Under this Part, provisions are also made for inspection, appointment of
inspectors and their duties, and powers, taking of samples and consequent analysis at
designated and reference laboratories.

Part IV of the Act, provides for the provisions for the management of industrial and
consumer chemicals, focusing on precautionary measures to minimize harm to human life
and the environment. Specific provisions are made for labelling, safe handling and
medical surveillance of workers, management of chemicals and chemical wastes.

Among other requirements, a person who produces, distributes, sells, transports, imports,
exports, stores or deals in a chemical must ensure that the chemical is packaged
according to recognised and approved national, international or foreign standards and the
package is required to bear a label specified by the Act. The person is also required to
provide to the Board, all information on the chemical and its handling that may be needed
to assess the hazards it presents to human health or to the environment. Abandoning or
handling of chemicals purposely or knowingly contrary to the provisions of the Act is
considered as an offence. The Act also gives the Board, on the basis of scientific research
to assess levels of chemical wastes in the social and economic activities and to prescribe
safety measures for exportation, production, storage, dealing in and disposal of such
wastes. Specially trained personnel are required by the Act to handle waste chemicals for
temporary storage or for final storage unless otherwise directed by the Board.

Regarding disposal, the Act stipulates that no person shall dispose of any chemical,
chemical wastes, chemical containers without obtaining a certificate from the Board
issued after consultation with the NEMC or any other competent authority or institution
as the Board may deem fit. It also specifies that the final disposal of any hazardous
chemical wastes may only be executed by personnel having a certificate issued by the
Board. According to the Act, disposal of chemical wastes should only be done after a
person involved has applied in writing and granted a certificate by the Board. Among
other information, a person applying for a certificate for disposing chemical wastes must
specify the nature and quantity of the chemical and where and in what manner the
chemical wastes is to be treated and disposed of. Pertinent to prevention and management
of accidents, among other things the certificate holder is required by the Act to take such
steps and otherwise observe such precautions as are needed to prevent accidents and
harm to human health and environment and to prepare contingency plans and procedures
for managing accidents which are required to be presented to the Board for approval.

For management of spills and contaminated sites, among other requirements, the Act
requires the certificate holder to prepare contingency plans and procedures for managing
spills and contaminated sites, which shall be presented to the Board and immediately
notify the public, the Board and other relevant authorities for further action and put into
effect the approved contingency plans. The Act gives the Board the powers to prescribe
the procedures for clean-up and removal operations in the event of a spill as well as the
powers to prescribe the method of storage and disposal of any pollutant of any object,
plant, animal, or any part of the environment removed in a clean-up or removal operation
or otherwise affected by a pollutant.



                                            47
Part V of the Act, provides for the funds and resources of the Government Chemist
Laboratory Agency with the aim of managing and controlling chemicals and for the
furtherance of the objectives of this Act, whereas Part VI of the Act deals with
miscellaneous provisions. These are provisions for notification and investigation of death
or injury suspected to have been caused by chemicals; liability and penalties in case of
any violation against the Act, and provisions for appeals against decision of the Board.
Finally, the Act also gives powers to the Minister for Health to make Regulations and the
power to amend or vary Schedules made under this Act.

3.2.10 The Environmental Management (Soil Quality Standards) Regulations, 2007

These regulations set limits for soil contaminants in agriculture and habitat, enforce
minimum soil quality standards, prescribe measures designated to maintain, restore and
enhance the sustainable productivity of the soil and prescribe minimum soil quality
standards for sustaining ecological integrity and productivity of the soil. According to the
regulations, among others, the National Environmental Standards Committee has the
powers to set pollutant limits and specify procedures for determination of the quality of
soil for protection of the soil from degradation as a result of anthropogenic activities such
as agricultural and mining activities and waste disposal. Owners and operators of a main
polluting activity are required to voluntarily register with NEMC and obtain a soil
pollutants discharge permit. Obligations of polluters are also given. According to the
regulations, the NEMC plays a crucial role in soil quality compliance and enforcement.
Recording and reporting requirements, offences and penalties for non-compliance as well
as how appeals against aggrieved decisions should be handled are stipulated.
Contaminant limits for selected soil pollutants mainly halogenated hydrocarbons
(example, trichloethylene, dichloromethane, tetrachloroethylene, carbon tetrachloride,
etc.), fuel hydrocarbons (benzene, ethylbenzene, total xylenes, toluene, etc.), organic and
inorganic pesticides (lindane, Atrazine, DDT, sulphur, Hexachlorobenzene, Aldrin, etc.)
and their respective test methods are specified. The Regulations also cover contaminant
limits for some heavy metals (e.g. arsenic, cadmium, nickel, copper, zinc, etc.) together
with their test methods.

Safeguarding activities shall be conducted in such a manner that contamination of soil by
pesticides is minimised. Where necessary, these regulations will be used for ensuring that
the ecological integrity of soil is protected.


3.2.11 The Plant Protection Act, 1997

The Act provides for the prevention of the introduction and spread of harmful organisms,
ensure sustainable and environmental protection, the control of importation and use of
plant protection substances, regulate exports and imports of plants and plantproducts and
ensure the fulfillment of international communities, entrust all plant protection regulatory
functions to Government, and for matters incidentalthereto or connected therewith.




                                             48
The Plant Protection Act has six parts which are: Part I-Preliminary provisions which
cover short title and commencement, together with its interpretations; Part II- Plant
Protection; Part III- Plant protection substances and plant resistance Improvers; Part IV-
Assignment of duties and appointment of officers; Part V – Offences and penalties; and
Part VI- Miscellaneous provisions.

The Plant Protection Act of 1997 and its Plant Protection Regulations of 1999 are
currently undergoing review to conform to relevant international chemical conventions
and codes of conduct.


3.2.12 Environmental Management (Hazardous Waste Control) Regulations, 2009

These Regulations apply to all categories of hazardous waste and to the generation,
storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and their movement
into and out of Mainland Tanzania. The Regulations is divided into eleven (11) main
parts.

Part 1 covers Preliminary Provisions of the regulations. Part II gives the General
Principles for guiding principles of environment and sustainable development relevant to
hazardous waste management including the precautionary principle; polluter pays
principle; and the producer extended responsibility. It emphasizes on minimization of
generation of hazardous and toxic waste by adopting the cleaner production principles. It
further underscores that every person living in Tanzania shall have a stake and a duty to
safeguards the environment from the adverse effects of hazardous wastes and to inform
the relevant authority on any activity and phenomenon resulting from hazardous waste
that is likely to adversely affect the environment and human health. It also stipulates that
generator of hazardous waste shall be responsible for the sound management and disposal
of such waste and shall be liable for damage to the environment and injury to human
health arising thereby.

Part III addressed issues pertinent to Administration and Institutional Arrangement
including the functions of the Minister responsible for the environment. The Minister is
responsible for providing policy direction and leadership in all matters pertaining to
hazardous waste management under the Environmental Management Act.

Part IV covers Hazardous Waste Management and Handling. The Minister responsible
for the environment is mandated by the regulations to classify all waste generated,
transported, stored, disposed or exported from the United Republic on the basis of the
method used under the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movement of
Hazardous Waste and Their Disposal, 1989 and the Bamako Convention on the Ban of
the Import into Africa and the Control of Transboundary Movement and Management of
Hazardous Waste Within Africa, 1991. Provisions pertinent to transport, packaging and
labeling of hazardous waste are also covered in this part.




                                            49
PART V contains Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Waste whereby the Director
of Environment is identified as the Focal Point and competent Authority for the operation
of the Prior Informed Consent procedure for the export, transit or other transboundary
movement of hazardous waste in accordance with the provisions of the Basel Convention
on the Control of Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Waste and Their Disposal,
1989. The obligations of hazardous waste exporters are covered whereby among others a
person intending to export hazardous wastes from the United Republic is required to fill
in a movement document and submit it to the Director and a copy to the Commissioner of
Customs. A hazardous waste export license and insurance are mandatory for exporters or
importers of hazardous waste.

Health Care Waste is covered in Part VI. Any person who generates health care waste is
required by the regulations to segregate at the point of generation and at all stages
thereafter the waste in accordance with the categories provided under the Fifth Schedule
of the Regulations. Issues pertaining to securing and packaging, treatment, monitoring,
storage, transportation and transfer stations of health care waste are also addressed.

Pesticides, Radioactive and Chemical Waste are addressed in Part VII. The management
of pesticides waste is required by the Regulations to be done in accordance with the Plant
Protection Act, the Tropical Pesticides Research Institute Act, the Veterinary Act and the
Public Health Act. The Minister responsible for the environment is required to liaise with
the Minister responsible for pesticides with a view to putting in place regulatory
framework that will ensure that the treatment and disposal of pesticides waste complies
with the requirement of the Act in relation to management of hazardous waste.
Management of radioactive waste and industrial and consumer chemical waste are as well
covered in this part.

Part VII of the Regulations addresses Electrical and Electronic Waste. Every person who
posses or have control of electrical or electronic tools, accessories or equipment is
generally obliged to ensure that electrical and electronic wastes are separated from other
types of wastes and deposited separately into receptacles as prescribed by the Council or
local government.

Part IX contains issues pertinent to Permits and Licenses. This part requires that all
persons who export hazardous Wastes must possess a valid permit issued by the Minister
and a valid Prior Informed Consent document issued by the designated authority of the
receiving country. The procedure for application of the export permit and conditions of
the same are also articulated. The part also covers matters concerning application for
transportation of or storage of hazardous waste. The Director of Environment has the
mandate to issue a license for transportation of hazardous waste or for storage of
hazardous waste if he or she:-

   (i) is satisfied that the applicant has adequate and appropriate facilities and
       equipment to transport or store hazardous waste on his premises without causing
       significant damage to public health and the environment.




                                           50
   (ii) is satisfied with the applicant’s collection schedule of hazardous waste and, in the
        case of storage of hazardous waste, that premises are adequate for storing the
        category of hazardous waste for which the license is required; and

   (iii) has published his intention to issue the license by notice of the Gazette and in one
        or more local newspapers of daily circulation in the United Republic thirty days
        before the issue of license.

A person granted a license to transport hazardous waste is obliged to ensure that (i) the
collection and transport of the hazardous waste is conducted in a manner that shall not
cause scattering of the waste; (ii) the vehicles for transportation and other means of
conveyance of hazardous waste follows the approved scheduled routes from the point of
collection to the disposal site or plant or facility; and (iii) the personnel involved in the
collection, transportation of storage of waste are provided with, adequate protective and
safety clothing, adequate appropriate equipment of facilities for loading the hazardous
waste, safe and secure sitting facilities in the vehicles used for transporting hazardous
waste, and proper training and information.

Part IX goes further to specify that a person licensed to transport or store hazardous waste
is obliged to (i) ensure that all employees involved in the collection, transportation or
storage of hazardous waste undergo such annual medical check-up as may be
commensurate to the risks faced by the employees, and (ii) on completion of the medical
check-up, submit a medical report of fitness in respect of each employee to the Director
of Environment.

The Director of Environment may, at any time, subject the person involved in the
collection, transportation or storage of waste to a medical check-up and the costs of the
examination shall be borne by the licensee. The vehicles used for transportation, or other
means of conveyance and the premises shall be labeled in such a manner as may be
directed by the Director of Environment by Order published in the Gazette.

The penalty for improper disposal of hazardous wastes is also specified.

Compliance and Enforcement issues are covered in Part X. The Powers of environmental
inspectors to serve prevention orders are stipulated. According to the Regulations,
Director of Environment or an Environmental Inspector or an officer of Council has
reasonable grounds to believe that a person is or will be conducting an activity, is or will
be in possession or control of substances or anything that may result in violation of the
provisions of these regulations, he may serve a prevention order on that person. Penalties
for noncompliance are also given in this Part.

Part XI gives General Provisions. It is stipulated that where any damage is caused by
hazardous waste which has been deposited into the environment, a person who deposited,
caused or permitted a waste to be deposited, is liable for the damage to the environment
and human health. A generator of hazardous waste is liable to subscribe to an insurance
policy to cover risks likely to be caused to the environment and human health.



                                             51
3.2.13 Other Laws

Other laws of the land that relate with the intended project on safeguarding and disposal
of obsolete pesticides include;
     Wildlife Conservation Act of 2009
     Protected Places and Areas Act
     Local Government (Urban Authority) Act Cap 277of 2002
     Agriculture Act (2003)
     Employment and Labour Relations Act (2004)
     Road Act of 2007
     The Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Act, Cap 413 of 2002
     Land Use Planning Act No. 6 of 2007
     The Occupier Liability Act Cap 64 of 2002

3.3    World Bank’s Environmental and Social Safeguard Requirements

The World Bank’s Operational Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessment (now
referred to as Operational Policy and Bank Procedure 4.01) requires that environmental
assessments be undertaken in those categories of projects that have or are likely to have
potentially significant impacts on the environment. Besides identifying the general policy
of the World Bank about the EIA, this document lays down the procedures and guidelines
for conducting EIA of the projects including the aspects to be considered in EIA, public
consultation and information disclosure procedures. It also provides environmental
screening guidelines for classifying the projects into various categories (A, B, C and FI).

Potential adverse environmental impacts of the proposed project are principally related to
pesticide storage, handling, transportation, disposal and site remediation. Because of its
significance, the project is classified as Environmental Category A. A full
(comprehensive) EIA is normally required for all projects falling under Environmental
Category A since such projects may have significant adverse impacts that may be
sensitive, irreversible and diverse. These are mainly new construction projects. The
project triggers two of the World Bank’s safeguard policies; OP 4.01 on Environmental
Assessments, which requires the preparation of a CESA, and OP 4.09 on Pest
Management which require a Pest Management Plan (PMP). Since the project itself
meets the requirements of a PMP, it was not necessary to prepare a self-standing
document. The applicability of two additional policies OP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement and OP 4.04 on Natural Habitats have been evaluated on a case by case
basis, as it is conceivable that project implementation may affect established access rights
of people to contaminated sites, or include activities that represent a significant risk on
natural habitats.

For all Category A and B projects proposed for financing, during the EA process, the
borrower is required to consult project-affected groups and local nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) about the project's environmental aspects and take their views into
account. For Category A projects, the borrower must consult these groups at least twice:



                                            52
(a) shortly after environmental screening and before the terms of reference for the EA are
finalized; and (b) once a draft EA report is prepared. In addition, the borrower shall
consult with such groups throughout project implementation as necessary to address EA-
related issues that affect them. This CESA has complied with this requirement.

For meaningful consultations between the borrower and project-affected groups and local
NGOs on all Category A and B projects proposed for financing, the borrower is obliged
to provide relevant material in a timely manner prior to consultation and in a form and
language that are understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted. This
project has abided to this requirement through holding consultative meetings in Kiswahili
language with people residing in the vicinity of the OPs storage facilities for registering
their views and concerns pertinent to the implementation of the proposed project.
Consultations have also been done with relevant government ministries, agencies and
departments as well as NGOs for soliciting their views, concerns and aspirations on the
social and environmental impacts of the proposed project. A stakeholders’ workshop was
also held to discuss the CESA report for ensuring that it has addressed all their key social
and environmental issues.

Regarding resettlement, the Bank guidelines prescribe measures to minimize the negative
impacts and ensure that the displaced community benefits from the project. Therefore the
Policy requires that displaced person should be:

      Compensated for their losses at full replacement cost prior to the actual move;
      Assisted with the move and supported during the transition period in the resettlement
      site;
      Assisted in their effort to improve their former living standards, income earning
      capacity, and production levels, or at least restore them.
      Integrated socially and economically into host communities so that adverse impacts
      on host communities are minimized. The best way of achieving this integration is for
      resettlement to be planned through consultation involving affected people and future
      hosts and affected people.

In addition, land, housing, infrastructure, and other compensation should be provided to
the adversely affected population, indigenous groups, ethnic minorities, and pastoralists
who may have customary right to the land and other resources taken for the project. The
Guidelines stipulate that the absence of legal title to land by such groups should not be a
bar to compensation.

3.4      National Strategies/Programmes

The purpose of this sub-section is to determine how environment and pesticide issues are
addressed in various national strategies/programmes.

3.4.1    The National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (NSGRP)




                                             53
The NSGRP paper recognizes that sound environmental management is critical for the
attainment of the NSGRP and Millennium Development Goals targets. It also recognises
the role of other sectors in poverty eradication and the need for mainstreaming
environment as one of the crosscutting issues into those sectors.

3.4.2   National Environment Action Plan (NEAP, 1994)

The NEAP provides analysis and guidelines for dealing with environmental management
problems at sectoral level. It also addresses the six key problems outlined in the National
Environmental Policy (1997), which are land degradation; lack of access to good quality
water for both urban and rural inhabitants; environmental pollution; loss of wildlife
habitats and biodiversity; deterioration of aquatic systems; and deforestation. It gives
strategic approach for mainstreaming environmental issues into decision-making process
and the need for defining sector policies and action plans. The proposed project will
therefore contribute in elimination of pollution sources by safeguarding and disposing
obsolete pesticides properly.

3.5     International Conventions

3.5.1   The Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous
        Waste and their Disposal (1989)

The Basel Convention is a global treaty that grew out of the need to stop the dumping by
the developed countries of hazardous waste in developing countries who were ill-
prepared to deal with its impacts. The Convention covers toxic, poisonous, explosive,
corrosive, flammable, ecotoxic and infectious wastes that are being moved from one
country to another (transboundary movements). Countries, which have ratified the
Convention are obliged to ban the import of hazardous wastes. They should minimise the
production of hazardous wastes and cooperate to ensure that wastes are treated and
disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. The primary objective of the
Convention is to minimise, with the aim of eliminating, the generation and transboundary
movement of hazardous waste. The Convention also aims at preventing illegal trafficking
in waste. The purpose of the Basel Convention is to:

        reduce transboundary movements of hazardous wastes;
        minimise the production of hazardous and toxic wastes;
        ensure that disposal of wastes is done in environmentally sound manner and as
        close to the possible source as possible; and,
        assist developing countries in the environmentally sound management of
        hazardous and other wastes they generate.

By providing access to information and technical assistance on best practice guidelines
and procedures for waste handling, storage and destruction, the Convention promotes the
environmentally sound management and disposal of hazardous waste. The Basel
Convention does not cover radioactive waste or waste discharged from ships. The
Convention entered into force in 1992. In 1995, the Ban Amendment was introduced to



                                            54
strengthen the Basel Convention by prohibiting the export of hazardous waste, for any
reason, from a member state of the OECD to non-OECD countries. In 1999, a protocol on
liability and compensation was adopted.

The Secretariat of the Convention cooperates with national authorities in developing
national legislation, setting up inventories of hazardous wastes, strengthening national
institutions and preparing hazardous waste management plans. Regional Centres for
Training and Technology Transfer have been established to assist developing countries to
gain the skills and tools necessary to properly manage and dispose of their wastes in an
environmentally sound way.

The Convention requires that a competent authority and a Focal Point be identified. The
amount of staff time required to administer the Convention will depend on the volume of
waste being held or transported. As a minimum, a country may need to allocate some
time to customs officials, a Focal Point and possibly a scientist/engineer. Each year,
member countries, are required to avail information on efforts to reduce the amount of
hazardous wastes and information on the generation, export and import of hazardous
wastes covered by the Convention.

The Government of the United Republic of Tanzania ratified the Basel Convention in
1993. Division of Environment in the Vice President’s Office is the Designated National
Authority (DNA) in overseeing the implementation of the provisions of the Basel
Convention in the Country.

The Convention obliges member countries to ensure that disposal of wastes is done in
environmentally sound manner and as close to the possible source as possible. Therefore,
the proposed project is part of and supports the implementation of the Basel Convention.
Should it be absolutely necessary to export the obsolete pesticides for treatment
elsewhere outside the country for treatment because of inadequate capacity to handle the
pollutants locally, provisions of the Basel Convention will strictly be adhered to.

3.5.2   The Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure

The Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Certain
Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, more commonly known
simply as the Rotterdam Convention, is a multilateral treaty to promote shared
responsibilities in relation to importation of hazardous chemicals. The convention
promotes open exchange of information and calls on exporters of hazardous chemicals to
use proper labeling, include directions on safe handling, and inform purchasers of any
known restrictions or bans. Parties can decide whether to allow or ban the importation of
chemicals listed in the treaty, and exporting countries are obliged to make sure that
producers within their jurisdiction comply.The objectives of the Convention are:

    to promote shared responsibility and cooperative efforts among Parties in the
    international trade of certain hazardous chemicals in order to protect human health
    and the environment from potential harm;



                                           55
    to contribute to the environmentally sound use of those hazardous chemicals, by
    facilitating information exchange about their characteristics, by providing for a
    national decision-making process on their import and export and by disseminating
    these decisions to Parties.

The text of the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent (PIC) Procedure for
Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade was adopted on 10
September 1998 by a Conference of Plenipotentiaries in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The
Convention entered into force on 24 February 2004. To achieve its objectives the
Convention includes two key provisions, namely the Prior Informed Consent (PIC)
procedure and information exchange.

The Convention covers pesticides and industrial chemicals that have been banned or
severely restricted for health or environmental reasons by Parties and which have been
notified by Parties for inclusion in the PIC procedure. One notification from each of two
specified regions triggers consideration of addition of a chemical to Annex III of the
Convention. Severely hazardous pesticide formulations that present a hazard under
conditions of use in developing countries or countries with economies in transition may
also be nominated for inclusion in Annex III.

There are 40 chemicals listed in Annex III of the Convention and subject to the PIC
procedure includes 25 pesticides, 4 severely hazardous pesticide formulations and 11
industrial chemicals. Many more chemicals are expected to be added in the future. The
Conference of the Parties decides on the inclusion of new chemicals. Once a chemical is
included in Annex III, a "decision guidance document" (DGD) containing information
concerning the chemical and the regulatory decisions to ban or severely restrict the
chemical for health or environmental reasons is circulated to all Parties for scrutiny and
endorsement.

The Convention promotes the exchange of information on a very broad range of
chemicals. It does so through:

    the requirement for a Party to inform other Parties of each national ban or severe
    restriction of a chemical;
    the possibility for a Party which is a developing country or a country in transition to
    inform other Parties that it is experiencing problems caused by a severely hazardous
    pesticide formulation under conditions of use in its territory;
    the requirement for a Party that plans to export a chemical that is banned or severely
    restricted for use within its territory, to inform the importing Party that such export
    will take place, before the first shipment and annually thereafter;
    the requirement for an exporting Party, when exporting chemicals that are to be used
    for occupational purposes, to ensure that an up-to-date safety data sheet is sent to the
    importer; and
    labeling requirements for exports of chemicals included in the PIC procedure, as well
    as for other chemicals that are banned or severely restricted in the exporting country.




                                            56
A country becomes a Party when it lodges with the depositary its instrument of
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession to the Convention. Each Party including
member states must designate one or more national authorities, which are the primary
contact points for matters related to the operation of the Convention and are authorized to
perform the administrative functions required by the Convention.

The Rotterdam Convention was ratified by the Government of the United Republic of
Tanzania in 2002. The Designated National Authority (DNA) for overseeing the
implementation of the provisions of the Rotterdam Convention in the Country for
pesticides is Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives while for consumer
and industrial chemicals the DNA is Government Chemist Laboratory Agency. The
Convention handbook will be one of the guiding documents during the planning and
implementation phases of the proposed project on safeguarding and disposal of obsolete
pesticides.

3.5.3   The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs)

The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) is a global treaty to
protect human health and the environment from chemicals that remain intact in the
environment for long periods, become widely distributed geographically and accumulate
in the fatty tissue of humans and wildlife. POPs include the organochlorine pesticides:
DDT, endrin, dieldrin, aldrin, chlordane, toxaphene, heptachlor, hexachlorobenzene,
mirex; and the industrial chemicals and by-products: PCBs, dioxins and furans. These
initial twelve chemicals, the 'poisons without passports' were chosen because they have
the common hazardous characteristics of toxicity, persistence and bioaccumulation, and
are capable of travelling vast distances via water and air. Several discontinued or little-
used pesticides (including aldrin, heptachlor and DDT) are also included in the first list of
substances identified as POPs.

Exposure to Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) can lead to serious health effects
including certain cancers, birth defects, dysfunctional immune and reproductive systems,
greater susceptibility to disease and even diminished intelligence. Given their long range
transport, no one government acting alone can protect its citizens or its environment from
POPs. In response, the Stockholm Convention, which was adopted in 2001 and entered
into force in 2004, requires Parties to take measures to eliminate or reduce the release of
POPs into the environment. The Convention is administered by the United Nations
Environment Programme and based in Geneva, Switzerland.

The Convention sets out several objectives including:
      the elimination from commerce of identified POPs and others that may be
      identified in the future;
      encouraging the transition in commerce to safer alternatives;
      identifying additional POPs;
      the clean-up of old stockpiles and equipment containing POPs; and,
      encouraging all stakeholders to work towards a POP-free environment.




                                             57
The screening criteria for POPs include identity, persistence, bio-accumulation, long-
range transport and adverse effects. Any country that is a party to the Convention can
submit a proposal to the secretariat for consideration.

All criteria must be met and be regarded as scientifically justified by the Persistent
Organic Pollutants Review Committee (POPRC) before it can accept a proposal to list a
new chemical as a POP. Following acceptance of a proposal, a risk-benefit profile is
prepared and possible control measures considered.

Depending on the risk profile and the risk management evaluation, the POPRC will
recommend to the Conference of Parties (COP) whether the chemical should be subject
to any controls. The COP formally makes the decision to list the chemical and specify its
related control measures.

To become a Party to the Convention a State or regional economic integration
organization needs to submit its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or
accession to the depositary. Parties nominate official contact points for the purpose of
administrative functions and all official communications under the Convention. Parties
are also required to nominate national focal points for the purpose of information
exchange pursuant to Article 9 of the Convention. The Government of the United
Republic of Tanzania ratified the Stockholm Convention in 2004. Division of
Environment in the Vice President’s Office is the Designated National Authority (DNA)
in overseeing the implementation of the provisions of the Stockholm Convention in the
Country.

The proposed project supports the implementation of the Stockholm Convention since it
involves clean-up of old stockpiles and equipment containing pesticides, which is one of
the main objectives of the Convention. The proposed project on safeguarding and
disposal of obsolete pesticides will assist the Country in meeting its obligations to
remove POPs as required under the Stockholm Convention. In addition, the Stockholm
Convention will inevitably be used in guiding the planning as well as the implementation
phases of the proposed project because the Government of the United Republic of
Tanzania has ratified the Convention.

3.6     Institutional Framework for Environmental Management in Tanzania

3.6.1   Overall management responsibility

The institutional arrangement for environmental management in Tanzania is well spelt
out in the EMA (2004). There are seven (7) institutions mentioned by the act, of which
the minister responsible for environment is the overall in-charge for administration of all
matters relating to the environment.
The legal institutions for environmental management in the country include;
     National Environmental Advisory Committee;
     Minister responsible for Environment;
     Director of Environment;



                                            58
       National Environment Management Council (NEMC);
       Sector Ministries;
       Regional Secretariat;
       Local Government Authorities (City, Municipal, District, Township, Ward,
        Village, sub-village “Mtaa and Kitongoji?)

However, only the functions of National Environmental Advisory Committee, Minister
responsible for Environment, Director of Environment, and National Environment
Management Council (NEMC) will be discussed here since they are considered to be
more relevant to the proposed Project.

3.6.2   National Environmental Advisory Committee

The National Environmental Advisory Committee is comprised of members with
experience from various field of environmental management in the public, private sector
and the civil society. The advisory committee advises the Minister on any matter related
to environmental management. Other functions include:
     Examine any matter that may be referred to it by the Minister or any sector
        Ministry relating to the protection and management of the environment;
     Review and advise the Minister on any environmental plans, environmental
        impact assessment of major projects and activities to which environmental impact
        review is necessary;
     Review the achievement by the Council (NEMC) of objectives, goals and targets
        set by the Council and advise the Minister accordingly;
     Review and advise the Minister on any environmental standards, guidelines and
        regulations;
     Receive and deliberate on the reports from Sector Ministries regarding the
        protection and management of the environment;
     Perform other environmental advisory services to the Minister as it may be
        necessary.

3.6.3   Minister Responsible for Environment

The Minister is responsible for matters relating to environment, including giving policy
guidelines necessary for promotion, protection and sustainable management of
environment in Tanzania. The Minister approves EIS. The Minister may also delegate the
power of approval for EIA to the DOE, Local Government Authorities or Sector
Ministries. The Minister also:
    Prescribes (in the regulations) the qualifications of persons who may conduct
       ElA;
    Reviews NEMC reports on the approval of EIS;
    Issues EIA certificate for project subject to EIA;
    Suspends EIA certificate in case of non-compliance.




                                          59
3.6.4   Director of Environment

The Director of Environment (DoE) heads the Division of Environment and is appointed
by the President of the United Republic of Tanzania. The functions of the Director of
Environment include:
    Coordination of various environmental management activities undertaken by
       other agencies;
    Promotion of integration of environmental considerations into development
       policies, plans, programmes, strategies, projects;
    Undertaking strategic environmental risk assessment with a view to ensuring the
       proper management and rational utilization of environmental resources on a
       sustainable basis for the improvement of quality of human life in Tanzania;
    Advise the Government on legislative and other measures for the management of
       the environment or the implementation of the relevant international environmental
       agreements in the field of environment;
    Monitoring and assessing activities undertaken by relevant Sector Ministries and
       agencies;
    Preparation and issuing of reports on the state of the environment in Tanzania
       through relevant agencies;
    Coordination of issues relating to articulation and implementation of
       environmental management aspects of other sector policies and the National
       Environment Policy.

3.6.5   National Environment Management Council (NEMC)

The NEMC's purpose and objective is to undertake enforcement, compliance, review and
monitoring of EIA and to facilitate public participation in environmental decision-
making.

In reference to EMA (2004), NEMC:
     Registers experts and firms authorized to conduct EIA;
     Registers projects subject to EIA;
     Determines the scope of the EIA;
     Set-ups cross-sectoral TAC to advise on EIA reviews;
     Requests additional information to complete the EIA review;
     Assesses and comments on EIA, in collaboration with other stakeholders,
     Convenes public hearings to obtain comments on the proposed project;
     Recommends to the Minister to approve, reject, or approve with conditions
        specific EIS;
     Monitors the effects of activities on the environment;
     Controls the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP);
     Makes recommendations on whether to revoke EIA Certificates, in case of non-
        compliance;
     Promotes public environmental awareness;
     Conducts Environmental Audits.




                                          60
3.6.6   Sector Ministries

Under the existing institutional and legal framework the Sector Ministries are required to
establish Sector Environmental Sections headed by the Sector Environmental
Coordinator.

The Sector Ministries Environmental Sections:
      Ensure environmental compliance by the Sector Ministry;
      Ensure all environmental matters contained in other written laws falling under
      sector ministry are implemented and report of their implementation is submitted
      to the DoE;
      Liaise with the DoE and the Council (NEMC) on matters involving environment
      and all matters with respect to which cooperation or shared responsibility is
      desirable or required;
      Ensure that environmental concerns are integrated into the ministry or
      departmental development planning and project implementation in a way which
      protects the environment;
      Evaluate existing and proposed policies and legislation and recommend measures
      to ensure that those policies and legislation take adequate account of effect on the
      environment;
      Prepare and coordinate the implementation of environmental action plans at
      national and local levels;
      Promote public awareness of environmental issues through educational
      programmes and dissemination of information;
      Refer to the Council (NEMC) any matter related to the environment;
      Undertake analysis of environmental impact of sectoral legislation, regulation,
      policies, plans, strategies and programmes through strategic environmental
      assessment (SEA);
      Ensure that sectoral standards are environmentally sound;
      Oversee the preparation of and implementation of EIA required for investments in
      the sector;
      Ensure compliance with various regulations, guidelines and procedures issued by
      the Minister responsible for environment and;
      Work closely with Ministry responsible for local government, to provide
      environmental advice and technical support to district level staff working in the
      sector.

In terms of the Institutional arrangements for implementation of the ASP in general and
the CESA in particular, responsibilities for mitigation and monitoring should be defined
along with arrangements for information flow, especially for coordination between
agencies responsible for mitigation. This is especially important since this project
requires cross-sector and cross-institutional integration.




                                           61
3.7     Institutional and Implementation Arrangements for Project Implementation

3.7.1   National Project Steering Committee (NPSC)

At the national level, a National Project Steering Committee (NPSC) has been established
to act as main advisory body for the project. The NPSC membership composition consists
of senior representatives of key government departments involved in the project. The
NPSC is responsible for:

        Monitoring of overall project progress based on regular reporting by the PMU and
        reviewing progress reports to be provided to the World Bank;
        Confirming the implementation of the various activities by agencies to the project
        as per operational manual and work plan and verifying appropriate allocation of
        resources;
        Ensuring that agencies responsible for implementation of key activities provide
        regular reports to the PMU;
        Ensuring adherence to World Bank and Tanzania safeguard/EIA requirements
        including environmental assessment, risk assessment and health and safety
        aspects; and,
        Review and recommend actions that enhance inter-agency coordination and
        collaboration.

The NPSC is chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Vice President’s Office (or a
nominee) and comprises of the following Government institutions: NEMC, MAFS&C,
Vice President’s Office, Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI), Chief
Government Chemist, Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA), Division of
Environment (Focal point for Basel Convention), Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA),
Department of Environment - Zanzibar and Department of Agriculture – Zanzibar.

NEMC is the overall Project executing agency and its responsibilities in cooperation with
relevant government institutions, including Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security
(MAFS&C), the private sector, NGOs and other key organizations. NEMC has
established a Project Management Unit for the day-to-day operation of the project.

3.7.2   Stakeholder Advisory Forum (SAF)

This Forum is open to representatives from donors, International Organizations, NGOs,
organized agriculture and other groups interested in the project. Through the SAF these
stakeholders are provided with an opportunity to review project progress and to advise
the NPSC on implementation issues and how they can assist in this regard especially with
outreach and communication activities in order to make the project a success. The SAF
is a non-executive body and has no decision making powers. It is accepted, however, that
the recommendations of the SAF should be given due respect and consideration by the
NPSC.




                                            62
3.7.3   The Project Management Unit (PMU)

The PMU has been established in line with Government and WB policy. The project is
as far as possible being implemented using existing government staff and structures with
as little creation of separate project structures and management systems as possible. The
PMU is accountable to the Director General of NEMC. The PMU is responsible for
coordinating and monitoring the overall project, with actual implementation largely
undertaken by zonal staff from Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security (MAFS&C)
supported by two Field Managers. The PMU comprises of the following positions:

               National Project Coordinator (NPC)
               Prevention Coordinator (PC) from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food
               Security and Cooperatives (MAFSC)
               Technical Advisor for Disposal (TAD)
               Field Managers (FM) from NEMC
               Project Accountant
               Procurement Officer
               Communication officer
               Monitoring and Evaluation officer


3.7.4   Project Implementation Arrangements

For day to day project implementation, the PMU has formed Task Teams (TT). Under
the disposal component, two main TTs have been established namely the
Inventory/Safeguarding team and the CESA task team. The inventory TT focused on the
completion of a comprehensive national inventory of all obsolete pesticides and
associated wastes according to existing FAO technical guidelines.

The CESA Task Team is to oversee the conducting of CESA studies. More complex
safeguarding/repackaging at high risk locations identified during inventory will form a
part of the disposal tender. It is estimated that a total of 30 staff from the zonal, regional
and district levels will be needed on a part-time basis during the life of the project.

3.8     Involvement of the Stakeholders

All relevant stakeholders should be involved for ensuring that the pesticide safeguarding
and disposal exercise is successfully conducted. Key stakeholders will be Government
institutions, especially Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, Tropical Pesticides
Research Institute, Department of Environment in the Vice President’s Office, NEMC,
Disaster Management Department in the Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of
Infrastructure Development, Government Chemist Laboratory Agency, Regional
Secretariats, Local Government Authorities at district, ward, sub-ward and village levels.
These Government institutions will be responsible for overseeing that the project
activities (repackaging, storage at MCC, transportation by road and sea and disposal of


                                             63
the OP) are done in accordance to the Government laws and regulations. PMU will play
the role of coordination of the project in liaison with the ASP Focal Points.


Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in vicinity of the pesticide storage sites and the
NGOs will work closely with PMU in undertaking the project activities. Since CSOs and
NGOs will not participate directly in the project activities, they are the right groups to
carry out an independent monitoring of the project activities. However, basic training in
safeguarding and disposal of obsolete pesticides is required for staff of CSOs and NGOs
to be able to play their role effectively and efficiently.

The success of the safeguarding and disposal of obsolete pesticides activities will also
depend on the awareness and involvement of pesticide end users such as workers, farm
owners, small scale farmers and local communities. CSOs and NGOs can reach a
significant number of end users through already established networks.




                                           64
                                    CHAPTER FOUR

4.0     BASELINE DATA

4.1     Characterization of Obsolete Pesticide Stocks and Sites

Based on Inventory carried out under ASP Tanzania Project, there are 149 obsolete
pesticide stores containing free standing obsolete pesticides and associated waste
amounting to 700 tons. Surveys at pesticide contaminated sites and subsequent sampling
and analysis of samples of contaminated soil were also carried out in 2009 by
independent consultants. The contaminated soil remains in place at the original
contaminated sites; neither excavation nor storage of the contaminated soil have been
done so far. Except for heavily contaminated soil, all OPs and associated wastes are
found inside stores.

Out of 22 sites surveyed and sampled by the independent consultants for pesticide
contamination, 14 sites were found to have pesticide contaminated soil. Detailed
information on the characteristics and attributes of the 22 sites surveyed for pesticide
contamination are available in a series of separate comprehensive reports prepared by the
independent consultants (Kishimba, 2009; McDowall, 2009a-d). A corresponding
summary of the pertinent information on the 22 sites is given in Table 4.1a. Upon
subsequent risk analysis incorporating key pesticide and site characteristics and
attributes, a list of nine (9) priority sites was derived. Summarized profiles of the nine (9)
priority (high and medium priority) pesticide contaminated sites are presented in Table
4.1b.

Table 4.1a: Status of 22 sites surveyed for pesticide contaminated soil
Site   Site Name         Region      Site                 Pesticides found      Quantity   Risk
No.                                  Environmental                              (tons)     Level
                                     Description
1.     Kibokwa           Zanzibar    Contaminated soils   NM                    -          Negligible
2.     Mwanakombo        Zanzibar    Contaminated soils   NM                    -          Negligible
3.     Kitope            Zanzibar    Contaminated soils   NM                    -          Negligible
4.     Mtoni             Zanzibar    Buried                                     -          Negligible
5.     Kyela Valley      Mtwara      Contaminated soils   Toxaphene             2          LR
       Foods
6.     Vinguguti         Dar es      Contaminated soils   NM                    -          Negligible
                         Salaam
7.     Vikuge Coastal    Coast       Contaminated soils   DDT, HCH, Dieldrin,   225        HR
                                                          Hendrin, Chlordane,
                                                          Heptachlor
8.     Geita Katundu     Mwanza      Contaminated soils   DDT                   -          HR
9.     Geita Mwatoroli   Mwanza      Buried               NM                    -          Negligible
10.    Murbadaw          Manyara     Buried and           2,4-D                 -          HR
                                     contaminated soils
11.    PPO Tengeru       Arusha      Contaminated soils   HCH and gamma         64         HR
                                                          HCH (Lindane)



                                              65
Site   Site Name          Region       Site                   Pesticides found          Quantity   Risk
No.                                    Environmental                                    (tons)     Level
                                       Description
12.    Akeri Garden       Arusha       Contaminated soils     Bravo (fungicide),        3          LR
                                                              Sumithion, Blue/Red
                                                              Copper and other
                                                              unknown insecticide.
13.    Malala             Arusha       Contaminated soils     NM                        -          Negligible
14.    ACU Maize          Arusha       Contaminated soils     Dieldrin and DDT          80         MR
15.    KATC               Kilimanja    Contaminated soils     Benlet, 2-4D,             -          Negligible
                          ro                                  Carbides
16.    Korogwe            Tanga        Contaminated soils     DDT                       -          Negligible
17.    NHC Morogoro       Morogoro     Contaminated soils     DDT and pyrethroid        250        HR
                                                              pesticides
18.    Mtibwa Sugar       Morogoro     Contaminated soils     Ametryn and Atrazin       -          Negligible
19.    Mbozi NAFCO        Mbeya        Buried and             NM                        -          Negligible
                                       contaminated soils
20.    Mbarali Rice       Mbeya        Buried and             NM                        -          Negligible
                                       contaminated soils
21.    TACRI Mbimba       Mbeya        Buried                 Dieldrin                  5          MR
22.    MBOCU Mbozi        Mbeya        Buried                 Glyphosate,               5          LR
                                                              Chlorothalonil,
                                                              Fenitrothion,
                                                              Paraquat
                                                                                Total   634
NM = Not Measured; HR = High Risk; MR = Medium Risk; LR = Low Risk.

Table 4.1b: Profiles of nine (9) high and medium priority pesticide contaminated sites
  Site Number              Site name                        Contaminant score (Fp)                   Rank

        17            NHC Morogoro                                  1300000                             1

        11            PPO Tengeru                                    664000                             2

         7            Vikuge Coastal                                 936000                             3

        14            ACU Maize                                      776000                             4

        21            TCRI Mbimba                                    80000                              5

         5            Kyela Valley                                   32000                              6

        22            MBOCU Mbozi                                    12500                              7

        12            Akeri Garden                                    3000                              8

        10            Murbadaw                  Small quantity buried drums not soil                    9

Source: McDowall (2009c)




                                                66
As expected, Table 4.1a indicates that some sites were found to have no soil
contamination. Table 4.1b indicates that, of the nine high priority pesticide contaminated
sites, the NHC site in Morogoro must be accorded the highest priority while the
Murbadaw site can be given the lowest priority.

With a view to fulfilling the objectives of this CESA, a selection of high priority risk,
medium priority risk, and low priority risk sites were visited between January and
February 2010 by joint teams of experts from the client (NEMC) on the one hand and the
consultant on the other. The main objectives of the field visits were to conduct physical
and socio-economic surveys at the OP store and OP contaminated sites of interest and
collect water and soil samples for laboratory analysis. The laboratory analysis needed to
be done in order to get an indication of water and soil contamination related to the OP
storage premises. Samples of soil from contaminated sites located at two of the visited
sites were collected for analysis to gauge the extent and severity of contamination. The
sampling and the subsequent analyses carried out during this project followed up on an
earlier study carried out on buried pesticides and contaminated soils at these sites. The
sites covered by the field visits are distributed in eight regions of Mainland Tanzania and
in Zanzibar.




Figure 4.1: Obsolete pesticides store locations in Tanzania


                                            67
Locations of the obsolete pesticides stores including the ones that were not covered
during the field visits are shown in Figures 4.1. Figure 4.1 serves to give visually
assessable spatial relationships among the stores.

The contaminated sites that were eventually visited were jointly selected by NEMC and
the consultant on the basis of risk categories determined using the PSMS database and
accessibility during the scheduled visits within the timeline of this project. Time and
resource constraints within the framework of this project permitted visits to only seven
high priority risk sites, six medium priority risk sites, and three low priority risk sites. In
spite of the constraints, the selection of the sites to be visited ensured that the selected
sites were fairly representative of all other sites in their respective risk category
countrywide. Characterisation information on the obsolete pesticides found during the
site visits and condition of the respective stores and sites is conveniently outlined along
with information on their environmental and social impacts in Chapter Five.

It was considered uneconomical and impractical to analyse the water and soil samples for
all possible OPs and their metabolites. For this reason, the analysis focused on a narrow
range of selected representative contaminants. DDT and its metabolites were selected as
representative contaminants because of the following reasons: 1) DDT has been used in
proportionately higher quantities than other pesticides, 2) findings from past studies
indicate that DDT is the most dominant pesticide at the sites of interest, and 3) DDT is
among the pesticides with the most severe and far reaching public health and
environmental implications.

Results of analysis of water samples taken from various locations within and around three
of the high risk OP store sites (Vikuge site in Pwani Region, Morogoro Farmers
Cooperative Union (MOFACU) site in Morogoro, and Mbarali and Uyole farms in
Mbeya) are presented in Appendix 4A. Comparing the data for all of the sites, it is
evident that Vikuge site has the most elevated levels of pesticide water pollution. The
MOFACU site in Morogoro is a distant second to the Vikuge site. The sites in Mbeya
have levels that, for the purpose of this report, can be neglected.

The DDT analysis data for the Vikuge site suggest the presence of all the forms of DDT
analyzed (pp-DDT, pp-DDD, op-DDT, and pp-DDE) both upstream and downstream of
the store location. On the whole, the presence of DDT in the water samples analysed
indicates the potential for serious environmental and health risks in the affected areas and
this reinforces the need to take action. The detection of traces of DDT upstream as well
as downstream of the Vikuge OP site suggests that the store site is not the only source of
pesticide pollution around the Vikuge area. In turn, while this does not absolve the
Vikuge store site regarding environmental and health problems in its vicinity, it indicates
the need for caution when drawing conclusions, including attributing all observed
pollution problems to the site. Soil pollution assessment, which was carried out at Vikuge
and other sites in 2009, supports the water quality analysis results just discussed with
respect to the Vikuge site. In contrast, the soil pollution assessment for Mbarali Rice
Farm, also carried out in 2009, indicates that the farm area and its vicinity are not



                                              68
contaminated by pesticides. As such, the soil pollution assessment supports the water
quality analysis results carried out for this report.

The absence of DDT and its metabolites in many of the samples collected from other
sites, for example the Mbarali Rice Farm and Uyole ARI sites, suggests lower
environmental and public health risks within and in the vicinity of the respective sites.

Results of analysis of soil samples taken in early 2010 from Utete Boma in Pwani and
Tumbi ARI in Tabora indicate the presence of DDT and its metabolites in soil within the
premises of the stores at these locations. At the Utete site, concentrations of pp-DDT
were the highest followed by those of pp-DDD. On the other hand, concentrations of both
op-DDT and pp-DDE were generally below detection limits. At the Tumbi site, soil
contamination levels were generally high for both pp-DDT and pp-DDD. Contamination
levels for both op-DDT and pp-DDE were generally low. For both sites, contamination
levels within the 0 – 15 cm and 15 – 30 cm soil depths were generally comparable. On
the whole, concentrations of DDT and its metabolites at the Tumbi site were higher than
at the Utete site. At the Tumbi site, concentrations of pp-DDT were 1.10(SD=0.04) mg
per kg of soil (dry soil weight) and those of pp-DDD were 0.82(SD=0.19 mg per kg of
soil (dry soil weight). The corresponding figures for the Utete site were 0.21(SD=0.02)
mg/kg and 0.12(SD=0.02) mg/kg.

The presence of DDT and its metabolites at the surveyed sites indicates the presence of
public health and environmental risks at these sites. The higher soil contamination levels
exhibited at the Tumbi site imply that the health and envieonrmental risks are higher at
the Tumbi site than at the Utete site. The findings just discussed to the effect that obsolete
pesticide stores and contaminated sites exhibit different levels of soil contamination are
in agreement with the findings from past contammination assessment efforts. Notably,
based on the PSMS database, the risk level for the Tumbi site is high while that for the
Utete site is merely medium (See Table 4.2). Therefore, the soil sample analysis data are
in agreement with the PSMS database information. This adds credence to the findings
from soil sample analysis.

Since there are other obsolete pesticide storage sites in Tanzania which share many
features and characteristics with the Tumbi and Utete sites, the public health and
environmental concerns observed with respect to the Tumbi and Utete sites should also
be of concern with respect to the other sites.


4.2    Previous Waste Management and Pesticide Disposal Initiatives

Tanzania has a history of accumulations of obsolete pesticides, with the earliest known
stocks dating back from the 1970’s. The stocks have arisen as a result of poor pesticides
management practice in the country, primarily from:

       lack of legislative frameworks;
       incorrect needs assessment and procurement;


                                             69
       donations of pesticides that were not required;
       poor storage conditions; and
       poor stock management.

A number of projects have over the years been implemented to deal with the problem.

In 1986, SIDA provided assistance to repack a large quantity of pesticides at Vikuge
(Coastal Region). Over 200 tons, including a large amount of DDT, was lying scattered
in the open, severely polluting the environment. With assistance of SIDA the pesticides
were repackaged and stored in a new pesticide store which was built at the site. The
repackaged pesticides now need to be disposed of and the previous dump site needs to be
cleaned up and decontaminated.

In 1995, the Government of the Netherlands funded the removal of all hazardous waste
from the islands of Zanzibar and Pemba. An estimated quantity of 300 tons were
removed and incinerated in the UK. Experience gained during the Zanzibar operation
provided a solid base for the subsequent inventory of stocks on the mainland of Tanzania.
The clean-up operations in Zanzibar involved local labourers and participation of the
Department of Environment, while an international expert sponsored by the donor
supervised the actual project execution. The collection, international shipment and
incineration operations were carried out by a commercial UK-based hazardous waste
company. The Government of Zanzibar supported the operations, amongst others, with
local staff, clearance letters for arriving/departing equipment and materials, clearance
procedures with customs and immigration departments allowing easy access for
international staff with essential equipment etc.

Also in 1995, the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) provided technical
assistance to incinerate 57 tons of Dinitro-o-Cresol (DNOC) in a cement kiln at Wazo
Hill in Dar es Salaam. A special unit was constructed to feed in the pesticide with the
fuel. No contaminants were detected in the exhaust emissions from the kiln or in the final
cement produced during the disposal exercise. After the project completion this unit was
handed over to the Government for future use.

In 1997-1998, the Government of the Netherlands supported Tanzania in conducting a
nation-wide inventory of OP and veterinary waste. Twelve Government staffs were
trained in conducting the inventory and eight of them implemented the inventory
covering more than 350 different sites in a 15-month period.

NEMC was responsible for the overall project supervision (through a Project Coordinator
and a Project Manager) with support of an experienced international Technical Advisor.
The execution of the actual inventory was carried out in collaboration with other
stakeholders i.e. 7 national institutions and various waste owners. The collaborating
institutions included:

o      Ministry of Agriculture,
o      Ministry of Finance,


                                           70
o      Tropical Pesticides Research Institute
o      Factories Inspectorate.
o      Department of Environment
o      Ministry of Industries & Trade
o      Ministry of Health (Government Chemist Laboratory Agency - GCLA).

The inventory identified about 1,000 tons of OP and some 200 tons of veterinary waste,
mainly drugs and vaccines. The found OP included large volumes of organo-chlorinated
products, notably DDT. There were also found large quantities of organo-phosphate
pesticides with high toxicity for people and livestock scattered over more than 300 stores.
The majority of the stores do not meet the basic requirements for environmentally sound
storage of hazardous chemicals.

In 1999, a study was commissioned by NEMC under NORAD funding to evaluate the
feasibility of Obsolete Pesticide destruction in Cement kilns. Two cement plants were
analysed, namely the Tanzania Portland (Wazo Hill) and the Tanga Cement Company.
The study concluded that from a technical point of view, the plants could in principle be
suitable for pesticide burning, on condition that the electrostatic precipitators at the Wazo
Hill facility be replaced. Recent surveys and consultations with the Wazo Hill cement
plant management have revealed that the electrostatic precipitators have not been
replaced and there are no plans to replace them in the near future.

It is important to note that, despite the technical feasibility of using cement kilns to
destroy OPs as discussed above, the practical feasibility of such an endeavour rests on,
among other factors, the following:

       Willingness of the kiln owners to use them for destroying OPs and make the
       necessary adjustment to accommodate public health and environmental protection
       needs for a one time OP destruction operation;
       Acceptability of the option by environmental regulatory authorities in Tanzania;
       Acceptability of the option among communities who live close to the kilns – a
       separate environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) would be needed to
       establish this.

From a risk point of view, the Wazo Hill Plant in Dar es Salaam could cause
environmental problems because of the densely populated areas near and around the
plant.
In recognition of the persistent OP problem Tanzania made an official appeal for
assistance from the international donor community during the FAO Third Consultation
on Prevention and Disposal of Obsolete Pesticide Stocks, which was held in Rome in
March 1998. Tanzania was subsequently included among the first seven countries to
benefit from the financing through the Africa Stockpiles Program (ASP) funded by the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) through the World Bank as implementing agency.

In 2003 FAO completed a “training of trainers? workshop for the safeguarding of
obsolete pesticides. This was followed by emergency intervention at six highly



                                             71
contaminated sites previously identified as posing a direct risk to public health and the
environment.

Under the ASP programme NEMC in 2009 verified the national inventories of the OP
and the resulting data have been entered into the FAO web based Pesticide Stock
Management System (PSMS). All the identified sites were characterised using the PSMS.
The new inventory identified that Tanzania has 149 stores where OP is stockpiled
including 14 sites that are heavily contaminated with pesticides. The OP stocks in the
country total 700 tons with a further 2,755 tons of contaminated soils and 382 tons of
contaminated empty pesticide containers and pieces of equipment. Building materials and
components contaminated with pesticides amound to 2,000 kg of hazardous waste that
will require special handling alongside the OPs.

It is noteworthy that some of the sites that have heavily contaminated soil do not have
free standing, publicly held obsolete pesticides and associated wastes. Generally,
wherever there is contaminated soil, it is found outside the corresponding stores.

The coverage of the OP inventory undertaken in 2009 by NEMC under the ASP – P1 as
discussed above encompassed OP stocks stored in stores. This implies that the inventory
implicitly as well as directly covered the buildings that served as OP stores. Indeed, a
condition survey of the store buildings was done alongside or after the OP stock
inventory. The surveys undertaken for this report covered some condition survey of the
OP store buildings too.

Regarding the quality status, management needs, and management options of buried
pesticides and contaminated soils at the stores and sites covered in this report, extensive
work was done by McDowall (McDowall, 2009a-d). Kishimba (Kishimba, 2009)
collaborated with McDowall (2009) in these efforts by way of carrying out sampling and
analysis of soils from various sites of interest. The buried pesticides and contaminated
soils are currently in their original places in the vicinity of the OP storage premises.

McDowall’s study efforts on the buried pesticides and contaminated soils are presented in
a number of reports that are publicly accessible (McDowall, 2009a – d). Among other
things, the reports cover characterisation of the buried pesticides, pollution status of the
contaminated soils, risk assessment, final environmental management plan (EMP), and
disposal options.


4.3    PSMS Data Related to Pesticide Stores

An extract of the Pesticide Stock Management System (PSMS) database as of March 9th,
2010 for various data together with information derived from the data are presented in
Tables 4.2 – 4.8 and Figure 4.2.




                                            72
Table 4.2: Summary of PSMS extract as of March 9, 2010

                          OPs        Cont.     Cont.     Cont.               Empty       Cont. soil No. of
                          (kg)      material bldg mtls equipment           containers      (kg)     stores
                                     (kg)       (kg)                       (number)
  United Republic
   of Tanzania           700,000        3,600       2,000         1,250            382 2,755,240         149

                                                                           Total           3,889,651
 Region breakdown
 Arusha                     34,250          600       2,000             0           220       14,040       17
 Dar es Salaam              46,862        3,000           0             0             0            0        4
 Dodoma                         182            0          0             0             0            0        2
 Iringa                       6,781            0          0             0             0            0       11
 Kagera                       5,340            0          0             0             0            0        5
 Kigoma                          93            0          0             0             0            0        2
 Kilimanjaro                22,011             0          0             0             0            0        9
 Lindi                        4,062            0          0             0             0            0        5
 Manyara                      2,142            0          0             0             0            0        7
 Mara                         4,992            0          0             0             0            0        5
 Mbeya                      68,222             0          0             0            51            0        7
 Morogoro                   92,015             0          0             0             0      156,000       14
 Mtwara                       2,990            0          0             0             0            0        4
 Mwanza                       1,225            0          0             0             0            0        8
 Pemba North                    107            0          0             0             0            0        1
 Pemba South                     12            0          0           250             0            0        1
 Pwani                     281,484             0          0             0             0 2,340,000          11
 Rukwa                          705            0          0             0             0            0        1
 Ruvuma                     10,392             0          0             0             0            0        4
 Shinyanga                      479            0          0             0             7            0        5
 Singida                        604            0          0             0             0            0        2
 Tabora                     37,127             0          0             0            30            0       10
 Tanga                        1,926            0          0             0             0      245,200        9
 Unguja North                 2,188            0          0        1,000             75            0        4
 Unguja Urban West              297            0          0             0             0            0        1
OPs = obsolete pesticides; cont. material = contaminated material (this refers to any pesticide associated
waste inside store that is not pesticides, contaminated building sections and materials, spraying equipment
or contaminated containers) ; Cont. building = contaminated buildings; Cont. equipment = contaminated
equipment; Cont. soil = contaminated soil.

The FAO Environmental Management Tool Kit (FAO EMTK) for Obsolete Pesticides
was used for gathering and interpreting information on obsolete pesticide stocks. It was
also used to develop a coherent, risk-based strategy for the environmentally sound
management of those obsolete pesticides (FAO, 2009). The FAO EMTK is composed of
two tools namely Tool A and Tool B. Tool A aims to gathering the essential information
for appraising the environmental and public health risks associated with any stock of
obsolete pesticides and identifying the stores with the worst conditions in terms of current
or potential impacts on public health and/or the environment. Tool B is used to identify


                                                     73
the stores that pose a comparatively high level of risk to the general public and the
environment. It aims to provide a methodology for recognizing the most critical stores
and prioritizing them based on risk.

The FAO EMTK was used for the following purposes:

i)     Ranking the stores according to the level of risk associated with the pesticides
       contained in each store, their toxicity and their packaging conditions: The
       more pesticides contained in a store, the more toxic those pesticides are and/or the
       worse the condition of the packaging materials in terms of leakage, the higher the
       associated risk. This tool can be applied to calculate the risk factor FP , which
       represents the risk related to conditions associated with the pesticides (i.e., the
       conditions prevailing inside the store). FP has a linear progression; the greater the
       value of FP, the higher the associated risk.

ii)    Ranking the stores according to the conditions of each store structure and to
       the storage conditions inside and the environmental conditions outside the
       store: The worse the conditions associated with the store structure and the greater
       the store’s relationship with or proximity to critical areas, the higher the risk or
       potential risk to public health and the environment in case of an accident at the
       store. The risk factor FE is calculated for each store, based on the results of a
       simple questionnaire completed for each location.

iii)   Characterizing the general situation prevailing in each store by combining
       the two risk factors FP and FE and plotting them on a single graph, divided
       into four quadrants: This provides a comparative analysis based on the sample
       population of stores included in the survey. Depending on the position of a store
       on the graph (Figure 4.2), the situation prevailing in that store relative to the other
       stores in the survey can be characterized as lower-priority, problematic (when
       either FP or FE is high) or critical (when both FP and FE have high values).

The stores were classified into three categories of high, medium and low risk based on
toxicity, quantity, surrounding environmental conditions and the security of the store.
The categorization of the stores followed the FAO Environmental Management Toolkit
in which environmental factor (Fe) values higher than 50 were considered problematic.
Relating to the risk posed by the type and quantity of the OP, an Fp criterion value of
above 50,000 was considered to be a high risk factor. In addition, the WHO class, the
condition of the packaging, and whether the active ingredient is known, was considered
during the evaluation. Information on OP stores and their corresponding Fe and Fp data
are presented in Table 4.3.




                                             74
Table 4.3: Pesticide stores and corresponding Fp and Fe data

                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                              Quantity
Region          District          Site Name                              Risk status      Store Name      Fp        Fe         (Kg)
Arusha          Arumeru           Arusha Seed Farm                      Medium         1                  36,178         37        970
                Arumeru           Horticulture Institute Tengeru        Low            1                   3,130         51          72
                Arumeru           Kingori Village                       High           1                      97         27           2
                                                                        High           2, Buried
                Arumeru           Kingori Village                                      Pesticide          364,000        51      13,000
                Arumeru           Ngyani Cooperatives                   High           Ngyani 1            29,120        29       3,040
                Arumeru           Tanzania Flowers LTD                  Medium         Tanzania Flowers    35,152        10         852
                Arumeru           Tengeru Flowers                       Low            Tengeru Flowers        285        26          32
                Arumeru           TPRI Store 1,2 & 3                    High           TPRI Store No.3    711,044        27      14,449
                Arumeru           TPRI Store No. 5                      High           5                   13,907        23         310
                Arumeru           TPRI Store No.4                       High           Store No.4         377,256        29       8,230
                Arusha            Burka Coffee Estate Site 2            Medium         1                    8,000         9       2,000
                Arusha            Burka Coffee Estate 1                 Low            1                    5,503         8         175
                Arusha            Manyara Estate - Arusha               Low            1                    4,930        17         120
                Arusha            Mringa Coffee Estate                  Low            1                   48,191         8         944
                Arusha            TPRI Store 1,2 & 3                    High           Store No.01         12,718        27         266
                Arusha            TPRI Store 1,2 & 3                    High           TPRI Store No.2    285,190        27       6,639
                Arusha            TFA Arusha                            Low            1                       92        11          11
Dar es Salaam   Ilala             Vinguguti PHS Store                   Medium         PHS Store          297,304        30      23,289
                Kinondoni         Kimara Baruti 1                       Medium         Kimara Baruti 1     34,232        31         688
                Kinondoni         Kimara Baruti 2                       Medium         Kimara Baruti 2    116,200        30       2,075
                Temeke            TCB Kurasini Godowns 7                Medium         Godowns 7          512,840        40      23,810
Dodoma          Dodoma Urban      Dodoma Agro-Tech                      Low            1                    2,164        21          82
                Kondoa            DALDO store                           Low            Daldo store          1,900        22         100
Iringa          Iringa Rural      TLTC Godown                           Medium         1TLTC Iringa        23,266        25       3,590
                Iringa Urban      DALDO Iringa                          Low            1                      710        27          28
                Iringa Urban      Seatondole Research Substation        Low            1                   13,650        39         244
                Ludewa            DED Store - Mlangali                  Low            1                    3,577        22          73




                                                                   75
                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                           Quantity
Region        District       Site Name                              Risk status      Store Name        Fp        Fe         (Kg)
              Makete         DALDO Makete                          Low            1                     7,626         34        308
              Mufindi        Mufindi Tea Company Ltd               Low            1                     2,025         30          81
              Mufindi        Unilever Tea Tanzania Ltd             Low            1                    89,767         17      1,836
              Njombe         DALDO Njombe                          Low            1                     2,201         39          94
              Njombe         Tanwat Ltd Njombe                     Low            1                     3,530         25        290
              Iringa         TFA Iringa                            Low            1                     5,508         25        234
              Mufindi        TFA- Mafinga                          Low            1                       137         19           3
Kagera        Biharamulo     Biharamulo Cooperative Union Kagera   Low            1                     1,400         34        350
              Biharamulo     Green Farm - Biharamulo               Lo             1                       539         32          11
              Bukoba Rural   DALDO Store Bukoba Rural              Low            1                    22,329         26        456
              Bukoba Urban   Veterinary store Kagera               Low            Veterinary store     50,273         45      3,854
                             Kolping Society of Tanzania           Medium         1                    14,097         31        669
              Kasulu         DALDO Store Kasulu                    Low            1                     2,005         32          63
                                                                   Low             Kigoma Daldo
Kigoma        Kigoma Urban   Kigoma DALDO's Office                                Office                 1,470        70         30
Kilimanjaro   Hai            Namwai                                Low            1                      1,265        18        125
              Hai            TACRI-Lyamungo-Hai                    Medium         TACRI                 39,370        19        905
              Moshi Rural    Kifaru Estate-Siha                    Low            Kifaru Estate-Siha     3,266        18         74
                                                                   Low
              Moshi Urban    TBA-KILIMO                                           1                    320,000        29      16,000
              Moshi Urban    TFA Moshi                             Low            TFA Moshi              2,923        22          91
              Mwanga         DALDO Mwanga                          Lo             1                      4,800        28         200
              Rombo          Rombo DALDO Store                     Low            STORE                  9,750        42         390
              Same           DALDO Stor e Same                     Low            1                        129        20           6
              Moshi urban    KATC - Moshi                          Low            1                    210,420        30       4,220
Lindi         Kilwa          Kilwa DED Store                       Low            1                     11,775        22         471
              Lindi Urban    Lindi Town Council                    Low            1                      5,280        51       1,320
                                                                   Low            TALDO Office
              Lindi Urban    TALDO Office Lindi                                   Lindi                  7,950        30         318
              Liwale         Liwale DALDO                          Low            1                      6,625        33       1,273




                                                              76
                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                        Quantity
Region     District         Site Name                              Risk status      Store Name      Fp        Fe         (Kg)
           Nachingwea       Nachingwea DALDO                      Low            1                   9,440         12        680
                                                                  Low            DALDO Babati
Manyara    Babati           DALDO Babati Rural                                   Rural              13,589         35        273
           Babati           TALDO Babati                          Low            1                   6,475         33        125
           Hanang           DALDO Hanang                          Low            DALDO Hanang       20,748         38        816
           Hanang           Mulbadaw-Hydom Farm                   Low            1                   5,635         29        115
           Kiteto           Agriculture DED Kiteto Manyara        Low            Store 1             6,104         28        356
           Mbulu            DALDO Mbulu                           Low            DALDO Mbulu         4,357         25        457
           Mbulu            Imboru Agro Vet - Mbulu               Low            1                       0         27          0
Mara       Bunda            Cotton Board Store-Bunda              Low            1                     909         18         21
           Bunda            SP C Ginning Co Ltd - Mara            Low            Store              63,330         14      2,514
           Serengeti        DED Serengeti                         Low            DALDO Mugumu        2,082         32        136
                            Mara Cooperatives Union (Under        Medium
                            Liquidation)                                         1                   31,080        41      2,220
                            Ras Store Mara                        Low            1                    4,949        35        101
Mbeya      Mbarali          Highlands Mbarali Estate              High           1                2,409,440        36     46,303
           Mbeya Urban      ARI UYOLE Store No. 1                 High           Store No.1             965        32         62
           Mbeya Urban      PHS MAFS&C                            Low            PHS-MAFSC            2,014        24         74
                                                                  Low            Uyole Research
           Mbeya Urban      Uyole Research Farm Mbeya                            Farm Mbeya       1,242,858        32     21,274
           Mbozi            DALDO Mbozi                           Low            Store 1              3,200        33        200
           Rungwe           RUCU - Tukuyu                         Low            1                      946        27         56
                            Ari Uyole store                       Low            No. 2               10,341        29        253
Morogoro   Kilombero        DED Ifakara                           Low            1                    2,590        32        160
           Kilombero        KATRIN Ifakara                        Low            1                    3,649        21        158
           Kilombero        Kilombero Sugar Company               Medium         1                  174,500        15     30,500
           Kilosa           ARI Ilonga                            Low            1                      300        12         30
           Kilosa           DALDO Office Kilosa                   Low            1                    2,653        33        373
           Kilosa           MATI Ilonga                           Low            1                    1,440        27         30
           Morogoro Rural   Bonye Village                         Low            1                      500        27         25




                                                             77
                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                              Quantity
Region        District         Site Name                             Risk status      Store Name          Fp        Fe         (Kg)
              Morogoro Urban   Morogoro Contaminated site           High           Contaminated site   4,368,000         79    156,000
              Morogoro Urban   Morogoro Farmers Cooperative Union   High           Str 1                 526,416         37     19,288
              Morogoro Urban   Morogoro Farmers Cooperative Union   High           store 2                12,800         37      3,200
              Mvomero          MTIBWA Sugar Estate                  Low            1                     570,000         38     30,000
              Ulanga           DALDO Mahenge                        Low            Daldo 2                68,475         40      3,525
              Ulanga           DALDO Mahenge                        Low            store No3              65,625         36      4,688
              Ulanga           DALDO Mahenge                        Low            Store no 1              1,200         35          38
Mtwara        Mtwara urban     MRATIF Mtwara                        Low            MRATIF                 19,660         26        580
                                                                    Low            FMR DALDO
              Mtwara urban     RAS Store Mtwara                                    Store                  24,880         32       1,460
              Newala           Newala DALDO Office                  Low            1                       5,750         26         230
              Tandahimba       Tandahimba District Council          Low            1                      17,280         35         720
Mwanza        Geita            Buharahara Farm Geita                Low            1                       4,512         21         138
              Geita            DALDO Store Geita                    Low            1                       2,240         35         320
              Magu             DED Store Magu (Kilimo)              Low            1                       4,080         23         510
                                                                    Low            Mwesigwa
              Missungwi        Mwesigwa Agrovet                                    Agrovet                    26         32          4
                                                                    Low            Kaltike Vetfarm
              Nyamagana        Kaltike Vetfarm Services                            Services                    85        26           9
              Nyamagana        Kipusa Agrovet - Mwanza              Low            1                           43        18           8
              Sengerema        Sengerema Daldo Store-Mwanza         Low            1                        1,470        32         210
                               Mukpar - Mwanza                      Low            1                          188        18          26
Pemba North                    PPD Machomane                        Low            PPD Machomane            2,939        29         107
Pemba South   Chake chake      Matangatuani Research Centre         Low            Matangatuani               600        30         262
Pwani         Bagamoyo         DALDO Bagamoyo                       Medium         1                       15,200        34         800
              Kibaha           Kibaha DALDO Office                  Low            Store                    4,028        42         164
              Kibaha           Vikuge                               High           Vikuge               7,000,000        48     250,000
              Kibaha           Vikuge Contaminated site             High           NA                  ########          69   2,340,000
              Rufiji           Kibiti Nariendale                    Low            1                       32,420        36       8,060
              Rufiji           Kilimani West                        Low            1                        6,267        31       1,401




                                                               78
                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                             Quantity
Region      District          Site Name                              Risk status      Store Name          Fp       Fe         (Kg)
            Rufiji            Mchukwi Kibiti                        Low            Mchukwi Village         1,920        31        480
            Rufiji            Misimbo Sisal Estate                  Low            1                       2,504        24        572
            Rufiji            Ruaruke                               Low            Ruaruke Village         4,800        30      1,200
            Rufiji            Utete Boma                            Medium         1                         324        32          57
            Rufiji            Utete former agriculture store        High           1                   1,200,000        43     18,750
Rukwa       Mpanda            ATTT Mpanda                           Low            1                      14,579        37        705
Ruvuma      Mbinga            DALDO Mbinga                          Low            Store 1                 2,397        19        111
                                                                    Low            DALDO
            Songea Urban      DALDO Store Songea                                   SONGEA                   710         29         74
                                                                    Medium         DALDO
            Tunduru           DALDO Store Tunduru                                  TUNDURU               42,350        33       10,094
            Tunduru           Kiuma                                 Low            Kiuma Tunduru            683        27          114
Shinyanga   Bukombe           DED Bukombe Store - Ushirombo         Low            1                        783        22           27
            Bukombe           Matonange Store - Ushirombo           Low            1                          0        29            7
            Kahama            DALDO Kahama                          Low            DALDO Kahama           2,676        36          172
            Shinyanga Rural   DED Shinyanga                         Low            1                     10,200        17          250
                              Ridep Store Shinyanga                 Low            1                               12,240           23
Singida     Iramba            DALDO Iramba                          Low            1                       7,675       27          360
            Singida Rural     DALDO Store Singida Rural             Low            DALDO Store            11,812       25          244
Tabora      Nzega             DALDO Store Nzega                     Low            1                       2,606       26           56
            Nzega             Resolute Mining                       Low            Resolute Mining         7,225        7          606
            Nzega             World Vision-Nzega                    Low            2                       1,379       27           56
            Sikonge           Sikonge DALDO                         Low             Sikonge DALDO         12,731       36          527
            Tabora Urban      Plant Health Tabora                   Low            1                       3,274       14          145
                                                                    High           Safeguarded Store
            Urambo            ARI Tumbi Farm Office                                -1                  1,920,000        55      30,000
            Urambo            ARITumbi Store                        High           1                       1,691        37          72
                                                                    Low            TLTC Godown
            Urambo            TLTC                                                 Urambo                20,832          7       2,734
            Urambo            Urambo Seed Farm                      Medium         1                    141,045         24       2,901




                                                               79
                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                      Quantity
Region           District           Site Name                                 Risk status      Store Name         Fp        Fe         (Kg)
                 Uyui               Uyui DALDO Store Tabora                  Low            1                           0        44          30
                 Lushoto            Kitivo Irrigation Scheme- Lushoto        Low            1                         279        26          31
                 Lushoto            Lushoto DALDO Office                     High           Contaminated soil     145,600        53      5,200
Tanga            Pangani            DALDO Pangani                            Low            1                         375        33          15
                 Tanga              GBP Depot                                Low            GBP Depot           4,560,000        65    240,000
                 Tanga              GBP Depot                                Low            GBP                 1,500,000        53    500,000
                 Tanga              Muafaka Vet Agro Channel                 Low            Stockist Store          1,639        22          71
                 Tanga              Regional Agricultural Advisor            Medium         1                      25,600        29        400
                                                                             Medium         Regional
                                                                                            Agricultural
                 Tanga              Regional Agricultural Advisor                           Advisor               19,200         27        400
                                                                             Low            Tanganyika
                                                                                            Farmers
                 Tanga              Tanganyika Farmers Association                          Association            7,333         24       1,009
Unguja North     North A            Kibokwa PPD                              Low            Kibokwa PPD              510         27          15
                 North A            Mahonda Sugar Factory                    Medium         Mahonda 2              4,585         38         137
                 North A            Mahonda Sugar Factory 1                  Medium         Mahonda 1            101,350         38       2,027
                 North B            BAMBI Agricultural Centre                Low            1                        117         22           9
Unguja Urban                                                                 Low            Plant Protection
West             Urban              Plant Protection Department, Bandarini                  Bandarini             13,618         35        296
In the last column of the table, total quantity = total quantity of OP and all types of contaminated materials.




                                                                        80
Figure 4.2a: Fe and Fp plot results for various obsolete pesticide storage premises and
contaminated sites. In this figure the plots include those for Vikuge contaminateds site,
Morogoro contaminated site, and ARI Tumbi.




                                            81
Figure 4.2b: Fe and Fp plot results for various obsolete pesticide storage premises and
contaminated sites. In this figure the plots include those for Horticultural Institute
Tengeru and Highland Mbarali Estate.




                                           82
Figure 4.2c: Fe and Fp plot results for various obsolete pesticide storage premises and
contaminated sites. In this figure the plots include those for Mtibwa Sugar and Mahonda
Sugar Factory.




                                           83
Figure 4.2d: Fe and Fp plot results for various obsolete pesticide storage premises and
contaminated sites. In this figure the plots include those for ARI TUmbi Store and Uyole
Research Farm Mbeya.




                                           84
Figure 4.2e: Fe and Fp plot results for various obsolete pesticide storage premises and
contaminated sites. In this figure the plots include those for Kimara Baruti and TPRI
Store No. 4.




                                           85
Figure 4.2f: Fe and Fp plot results for various obsolete pesticide storage premises and
contaminated sites. In this figure the plots include those for TPRI Stores 1, 2, and 3 and
DALDO Store Songea.

The results presented in Figures 4.2a – 4.2f are self-explanatory. They clearly indicate
premises that exhibit high risks as opposed to the ones whose risks levels are medium or
low.




                                            86
Table 4.4: Profile of pesticides toxicity (WHO class)

             WHO hazard                     LD50 for the rat (mg/kg of body weight)            Quantity
  WHO        classification                           Oral                  Dermal              (kg)
  class                                     Solidsa     Liquidsb       Solidsc  Liquids
Ia           Extremely hazardous            5 or less    20 or less    10 or less 40 or less       3,286
Ib           Highly hazardous                5 – 50      20 – 200       10 - 100  40 – 400           539
II           Moderately hazardous           50 – 500    200 - 2000    100 - 1000 400 – 4000      296,049
III          Slightly hazardous             Over 500    Over 2000     Over 1000 Over 4000          6,657
             Unlikely to present acute
 U           hazard in normal use            -           -            -           -           141,819
 Unknown                                     -           -            -           -           178,829
 Total (Net weight)                                                                           627,179
 Rounded off total quantity (gross weight)                                                    700,000
LD50 = the amount of a pesticide, given all at once, which causes the death of 50% of test rats

Table 4.5: Types of pesticides

Pesticide Family                                  Quantity (Kg)
Carbamate pesticide                                           474
Copper-based pesticide                                          8
Coumarin derivative pesticide                               2,941
Organochlorine pesticide                                 272,754
Organophosphorus pesticide                                 11,398
Organotin pesticide                                            32
Pesticide (organic)                                        44,831
Pesticide (other inorganic)                                89,133
Phenoxyacetic acid derivative pesticide                     1,115
Pyrethroid pesticide                                       17,652
Thiocarbamate pesticide                                     3,704
Triazine pesticide                                         10,237
Unknown                                                  178,829
Total (net weight)                                       633,108
Rounded off total quantity (gross weight)                700,000




                                                  87
Table 4.6: Distribution of pesticides per physical state and package type

                     Mass (kg)/ Container types       Container Total number of
                     volume                           material  different size containers
Physical state       (L)
Gas                           5 Jerry can             Plastic                            1
Granules                 11,960 Bag                   Plastic                          747
                                                      paper                            230
                                 Bottle               Glass                              1
                                                      Plastic                           14
                                 Box                  Cardboard                      3,688
                                 Drum (closed head)   Cardboard                      4,320
                                                      Aluminium                          3
                                                      Steel                             13
                                Jerry can             Plastic                            1
Liquid (pumpable)        71,082 Bottle                Glass                         15,535
                                                      Plastic                       14,943
                                                      Aluminium                        612
                                                      Steel                             13
                                 Box                  Aluminium                      1,454
                                                      Cardboard                          1
                                 Combination packs    Steel                            265
                                 Drum (closed head)   Aluminium                        152
                                                      Plastic                           92
                                                      Steel                            133
                                 Drum (open head)     Plastic                           21
                                                      Aluminium                          1
                                                      Steel                             31
                                 Jerry can            Aluminium                         14
                                                      Plastic
                                                      Steel                              1
Liquid (separated)        2,258 Bottle                Glass                              7
                                                      Plastic                            6
                                 Drum (closed head)   Steel                              2
                                 Jerry can            Plastic                          121
                                                      Aluminium                          1
Powder (caked)           28,636 Bag                   Plastic                           28
                                 Bottle               Plastic                            8
                                 Box                  Aluminium                         60
                                                      Wood                              30
                                 Combination packs    Cardboard                        268
                                 Drum (open head)     Steel                             13
                                                      Cardboard                          3
                                Woven sack            Plastic                           13
Powder (flowable)       950,554 Bag                   Aluminium                        394
                                                      Paper                          4,151
                                                      Plastic                       19,469
                                 Bottle               Aluminium                        669



                                              88
                     Mass (kg)/ Container types        Container Total number of
                     volume                            material  different size containers
Physical state       (L)
                                                       Glass                              1
                                                       Plastic                        2,418
                                  Box                  Cardboard                     13,648
                                                       Steel                              2
                                                       Wood                             714
                                  Combination packs    Plastic                        1,050
                                  Drum (closed head)   Aluminium                        340
                                                       Cardboard                          3
                                                       Plastic                           20
                                                       Steel                            685
                                  Drum (open head)     Aluminium                         38
                                                       Cardboard                          2
                                                       Plastic                            9
                                                       Steel                            562
                                  Jerry cans           Aluminium                        636
                                                       Plastic                          216
                                                       Steel                              1
                        500,000                        None
                                Woven sacks            Plastic                          301
Sludge                   31,001 Bag                    Plastic                           15
                                Bottle                 Plastic                            4
                                Drum (closed head)     Cardboard                          2
                                Drum (open head0       Aluminium                         35
                                Jerry can              Plastic                          440
Solidified               31,684 Bag                    Plastic                            2
                                Bottle                 Plastic                          225
                                Drum (closed head)     Cardboard                         29
                                                       Aluminium                          5
                                                       Steel                             40
                                  Drum (open head)     Aluminium                          1
                                                       Steel                             60
                                  Jerry can            Aluminium                         20
                                                       Plastic                        4,731
Sprayer (portable)                                                                        2
Empty containers                  Bottle               Plastic                        2,036
                                  Combination packs    Plastic                            1
                                                       Steel                              1
                                  Drum (closed head)   Steel                              6
                                  Jerry can            Plastic                          300
‘None’ in Column 4 = not within a container

Considering all the OP types and containers as well as equipment, the whole OP waste
stream comprises the following components: 1129.2 tons of OP, 3.6 tons of contaminated
material, 1.2 tons of contaminated equipment, 2755.2 tons of contaminated soil, and 382
tons of empty containers.


                                               89
Table 4.7: Identification of hazards
Physical state             Hazard                          Total quantity (kg or L)
GAS                        Toxic                                                      5
SOLIDS
Granules                   Oxidising                                                2
                           Toxic                                              11,957
Liquid (separated)         none                                                    30
                           Toxic                                                  673
                           unknown                                              1,555
other                      Toxic                                                3,000
                           unknown                                                600
Powder (caked)             none                                                     1
                           Toxic                                                  380
                           unknown                                             28255
Powder (flowable)          Environmental Hazard                                     6
                           Flammable                                            1,665
                           Marine pollutant                                   16,007
                           None (excluding 500 t sulfur)                      86,780
Powder (flowable)          Toxic                                             605,636
                           unknown                                            28,978
                           Water reactive                                           1
Sludge                     Toxic                                              22,251
                           unknown                                              8,750
Solidified                 none                                                   307
                           Toxic                                              29,838
                           unknown                                              1,540
                           Oxidising                                                2
                           Toxic                                             673,735
                           Unknown                                            69,678
                           none                                               8,7118
                           Environmental hazard                                     6
SUM SOLIDS                 Flammable                                            1,665
                           Marine pollutant                                   16,007
                           Water reactive                                           1
                           Corrosive                                              110
                           Flammable                                            1,322
                           Marine pollutant                                       393
                           none                                                 4,434
                           Oxidising                                               31
LIQUID (pumpable)          Toxic                                              35,325
                           unknown                                            29,296
                           Water reactive                                         171

The diversity of the sizes of containers shown in Table 4.6 indicates the degree of
difficulty involved in handling the containers. It also gives an idea about the reasons the
need for consolidating the OP stocks through repackaging OPs in small sized containers
into larger ones.


                                            90
4.4    Assessment of Capacity for a National Safeguarding Operation

The capacity of the country to undertake a nationwide safeguarding operation of the
obsolete pesticide stocks and contaminated soil sites can conveniently be assessed on the
basis of: availability of financial resources, human resources (expertise) required,
availability of appropriate technology, availability of appropriate experience, availability
of appropriate equipment and facilities, availability of appropriate safeguarding premises
judged on the basis of site capacity and suitability of premise characteristics, types and
condition of the obsolete pesticide stocks and contaminated soils that need safeguarding,
locations of the pesticide stocks and contaminated soil sites, and quantities of obsolete
pesticide stocks and contaminated soil that need to be safeguarded. These criteria are
discussed in detail in the following subsections.

Availability of financial resources
The country faces financial constraints, which means inadequate financial capacity of the
government presents a major constraint to national obsolete pesticide safeguarding
efforts. As such, in the foreseeable future such efforts will only be possible with donor
assistance as is the case now with the ASP-P1.

Availability of human resources (expertise)
The safeguarding operations carried out by and under the direction of NEMC so far
suggest that, to a great extent, appropriate expertise and experience are available. The
number of appropriately qualified and experienced personnel is smaller than that required
to carry out a nationwide operation. This implies that training of additional personnel will
need to be carried out to raise the number to an appropriate level. An appropriate needs
analysis will obviously need to be carried out to establish the personnel requirement. It is
recognised that NEMC has in the past carried out training of personnel who were later
involved in assisting with on-site safeguarding operations.

Availability of appropriate technology
Previous safeguarding efforts undertaken and spearheaded by NEMC are a pointer to the
appropriate and applicable safeguarding technology. The technology is embodied in the
methods, tools, and practices employed.

Availability of appropriate experience
Similarly to the discussion on the availability of expertise, the safeguarding operations
carried out by/and under the direction of NEMC in the recent past suggest that
appropriate experience is available. However, because the previous safeguarding
operations were on a small scale, the number of appropriately qualified and experienced
personnel is correspondingly small. There is no doubt that the number of appropriately
qualified staff is smaller than that required to carry out a nationwide operation.




                                            91
Availability of appropriate equipment and facilities
Previous safeguarding operations used appropriate equipment and facilities, including
personal protective equipment (PPE). As such, for safeguarding activities similar to the
ones that have been carried out in the past, only quantities need to be increased for non-
consumable equipment and materials. However, new supplies that match the projected
needs would be needed for the consumable materials.

Availability of appropriate safeguarding premises
Judged on the basis of site capacity and suitability of site and store characteristics,
appropriate safeguarding premises are available. Improvements required to be done on
the stores and their environs to make them more suitable and secure would need to be
carried out as part and parcel of the safeguarding efforts.

Obsolete pesticides stock types and conditions
As evident in Table 4.4, a significant portion of the OP stocks whose constituents are
known are classified as extremely hazardous (3,286 kg) or highly hazardous (539 kg). On
the other hand, almost a half (47%) of all OP stocks contain yet unidentified chemicals.
The presence of large quantities of extremely and highly hazardous OPs plus the huge
quantity of OPs whose identities are not known pose serious challenges that are beyond
the currently available local coping capacity.

Obsolete pesticides stock store and site locations
As evident from Figure 4.1, the locations of the pesticide stocks and contaminated soil
sites are scattered all over the country (Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar). Obviously, this
complicates and magnifies safeguarding needs. However, the stores and contaminated
sites are located in areas that are generally accessible. Moreover, as demonstrated in
sections that follow, many of the locations of individual stores and premises can be
conveniently clustered so that their needs are attended to as groups rather than individual
stores and sites. Notably, the individual premises as well as the potential clusters are
connected by reliable transport means among themselves as well as to shipping outlets.

Obsolete pesticides stock and soil quantities
As shown in Tables 4.2 – 4.3, quantities of obsolete pesticide stocks stored at individual
stores that need to be safeguarded have a large range. Obsolete pesticide containers and
pesticide contaminated empty containers come in different sizes as well. Sizes of areas of
contaminated soil also vary in a similar manner. The fact that pesticide container sizes
vary widely reinforces the need for repackaging to consolidate the stocks. The differences
in stock sizes reinforces the need for clustering as pointed out earlier. With clustering,
stocks from stores that have small stocks can be moved to the stores with large stocks
where they can be more conveniently handled. Obviously, the clustering outlined here is
contingent upon the large stores having sufficient capacity. This issue is addressed again
later.

Taking into account all major determinants and influencing factors, the capacity of the
country to carry out national obsolete pesticides safeguarding operations can be summed
up as shown in Table 4.8.



                                            92
Table 4.8: Assessment of country’s capacity for a national safeguarding operation
 Assessment bases/criteria                          Safeguarding operation capacity
                                                    scale
                                                    Small             Large operation
                                                    operation
 Availability of financial resources,                     Low                Low
 Availability of human resources (expertise)              High               Low
 Availability of appropriate technology                   High               Low
 Availability of appropriate experience                   High               Low
 Availability of appropriate equipment and                High               Low
 facilities
 Availability of appropriate safeguarding                 High              High
 premises
 Obsolete pesticides stock types and condition            Low                Low
 Obsolete pesticides stock store and site locations       High               Low
 Obsolete pesticides stock and soil quantities            High               Low

In line with what was pointed out earlier, on the whole, Table 4.8 suggests that any
national obsolete pesticide safeguarding operation is generally not possible without
external assistance. Even with external financial assistance, only small scale safeguarding
operations are really feasible if external contractors are not involved at all. Evidently,
large scale safeguarding operations can be meaningfully carried out only with the
involvement of appropriately qualified and experienced external contractors. Obviously,
it is possible to combine internal and external capacities to conveniently carry out the
safeguarding operation with a view to achieving economies of scale, facilitating transfer
of technology from external contractors and personnel to internal ones, and enabling the
safeguarding operations contribute to the local economy.


4.5    Assessment of Current National Transport, Treatment and Disposal
       Capacity

Similarly to the capacity for a nationwide safeguarding operation, the current national
obsolete pesticide stock disposal capacity can conveniently be assessed on the basis of:
availability of financial resources, human resources (expertise) required, availability of
appropriate technology, availability of appropriate experience, availability of appropriate
equipment and facilities, availability of appropriate disposal premises judged on the basis
of capacity and suitability of site characteristics, types and condition of the obsolete
pesticide stocks, locations of the pesticide stocks sites, and quantities of obsolete
pesticide stocks that need to be disposed of. An assessment of the current national
capacity to properly dispose of the OP and associated wastes including pesticide
contaminated empy containers based on the criteria listed above is presented in Table 4.9
and discussed in detail in subsequent subsections. A broader assessment, which
encompasses transport and treatment as well as disposal criteria, is summarized in Table
4.10. A discussion thereof is presented later.


                                            93
Table 4.9: Assessment of national OP and OP contaminated waste disposal capacity
 Assessment bases/criteria                     Disposal operation capacity scale
                                               Small operation     Large operation
 Availability of financial resources,                 Low                 Low
 Availability human resources (expertise)             Low                 Low
 Availability of appropriate technology               Low                 Low
 Availability of appropriate experience               Low                 Low
 Availability of appropriate equipment and            Low                 Low
 facilities
 Availability of appropriate disposal premises        Low                 Low
 Obsolete pesticides stock types and condition        Low                 Low
 Obsolete pesticides stock store and site             Low                 Low
 locations
 Obsolete pesticides stock and soil quantities        Low                 Low

Availability of financial resources
As indicated with respect to the assessment of the country’s capacity to carry out a
national safeguarding operation, financial constraints present one of the most serious
impediments to an internally funded pesticide disposal operation. There is no doubt that
in the foreseeable future, funding for disposal of obsolete pesticides will need to come
from largely external sources as is the case with the funding of ASP – P1 in Tanzania.

Availability of human resources (expertise)
Expertise for general waste management is available in the country. For example, at least
one local university runs an undergraduate level environmental engineering programme
and a graduate level environmental technology and management programme that produce
engineers capable of addressing waste management needs including those pertinent to
hazardous wastes. These constitute a pool of potential waste management experts.
However, with respect to specific needs of obsolete pesticide management, human
resources are limited by both types of expertise and number of experts. Although
appropriately qualified and experienced individual experts, such as the members of the
consultant team involved in undertaking this project, are available, these are not many
and the expertise range may be limited for some of them.

Availability of appropriate technology
The issue of availability of appropriate technology is related to and parallels that of
availability of appropriate expertise as well as availability of appropriate experience. As
is the case with many developing countries, there is no available proven home-grown
pesticide disposal technologies. As such, technologies developed elsewhere that are
available need to be resorted to. An exhaustive review on the pesticide management
technologies that are relevant to this discussion was undertaken by McDowall (2009c) as
part of a previous study on contaminated soil and buried pesticides commissioned by
ASP Tanzania Project.




                                            94
Although the the review by McDowall (2009c) looked at a wide range of technologies, it
understandably did not practically test the technologies for their applicability and
suitability to the situation at hand. Therefore, experiences gained through actual practices
can provide more insights on technology feasibility.

On the whole, previous waste disposal efforts present feasible options for obsolete
pesticide disposal. As outlined earlier, in 1995, the Netherlands Government funded the
removal of 300 tons of hazardous waste from the Island of Zanzibar and Pemba. The
waste was shipped and incinerated in the UK. On the other hand, in the same year, The
German agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) provided assistance to incinerate 57
tons of Dinitro-o-Cresol (DNOC) at Wazo Cement kiln. Although the fact that Tanzania
has three well established cement kilns which can potentially be used to incinerate
pesticides presents a potentially feasible option for disposal of obsolete pesticides, past
experiences rule this option out, at least in the short term.

A recent study specifically carried out for this report to validate and update previous
findings on the feasibility of using cement kilns to destroy OPs revealed that using the
cement kilns to destroy the obsolete pesticides in this project is not possible. Owners and
operators of the cement kilns categorically stated that using their kilns to destroy OPs
would not be possible mainly because of the extensive modifications required to make
the kilns capable of undertaking the OP destruction as well as because of uncertainities
regarding the performance and compliance of the kilns with environmental regulations.

Additionally, the likely strong public opposition and political sensitivity surrounding the
development of such a facility would make the adoption of such an option difficult and
unsustainable, irrespective of any technical and economic considerations.

Availability of appropriate experience
The issue of availability of appropriate experience is related to the issues on availability
of appropriate expertise and availability of appropriate disposal technology as discussed
earlier. Therefore it can be judged in a similar way.

Availability of appropriate equipment and facilities and availability of appropriate
disposal premises
The issues of appropriate equipment and facilities and availability of appropriate disposal
premises are related to and parallel those of availability of appropriate disposal
technology, human resources, and experience, and can be judged as outlined above.

Types and condition of the obsolete pesticide stocks, locations of the pesticide stock sites,
and quantities of obsolete pesticide stocks
The issues on types and condition of the obsolete pesticide stocks, locations of the
pesticide stock sites, and quantities of obsolete pesticide stocks that need to be disposed
of can be judged as discussed with respect to safeguarding issues. It is noteworthy that, in
the long term, there is a need to support efforts on development of hazardous waste
management national capacity. One way to achieve this is by way of supporting local




                                             95
academic institutions that offer pertinent training programmes. Another is by using
projects like this as training opportunities.

It is important to note that the country’s capacity to carry out disposal of the obsolete
pesticides being assessed here will actually involve: i) transportation of the pesticides, ii)
treatment and final disposal of the obsolete pesticides, iii) cleaning and management of
empty pesticide containers, and iv) management of washwater and trace quantities of
pesticides resulting from washing the used pesticide containers. Transportation of the
pesticides has a local as well as an external component, but both require appropriately
outfitted transportation vehicles. Marine as well as land transport requires drivers who are
specially trained to transport dangerous goods. Although, both the appropriately outfitted
vehicles and specially trained drivers are currently not available in Tanzania, Tanzania
has a national institute of transport (NIT). NIT specialises in transport training, including
training of drivers and mechanics. Therefore, it is conceivable that NIT can run tailor-
made training for project drivers.

Incineration of the pesticides in local cement kilns is not considered for managing the
large stocks because, judged on previous experiences, such operations are likely to incite
resistance and protest from communities nearby. It is noteworthy that these facilities are
located in rather densely populated areas.

Used metal and plastic containers can be washed using water plus approriate solvents and
the resulting clean containers can be crushed or shredded so that they can be recycled in
the local metal and plastic recycling industry. Notably, Tanzania has a sizeable metal and
plastic recycling capacity. It also has a healthy market for recycled metal and plastic
products.

Paper or cardboard containers such as boxes can be incinerated. It is envisioned that
traces of pesticides in the washwater resulting from washing used pesticide containers
will be concentrated and incinerated in kilns. The resulting relatively pesticide-free water
will be treated as wastewater. Facilities for concentrating the pesticide traces, which
constitute mainly tailor made columns packed with appropriate sorption media, can be set
up relatively easily even using largely local components.

In spite of the assertions made in the preceding discussion regarding the treatment and
disposal of OP containers and washwater, consultations with OP management
stakeholders have indicated that management of the empty containers within Tanzania is
not favoured and is likely to attract resistance. As such, its inclusion in further
discussions is only for completeness of such discussions.

Taking into account all major determinants and influencing factors, the current obsolete
pesticides transport, treatment, and disposal capacity of the country can be broadly
assessed as shown in Table 4.10.




                                             96
Table 4.10: Broad assessment of country’s current obsolete pesticide transport, treatment
and disposal capacity
 Disposal operation component         Required/preferred               Capacity
                                        activity location
                                        In          Outside     Internal     External
                                    Tanzania       Tanzania
 Pesticide land transport              Yes            Yes         Low           High
 Pesticide marine transport            No             Yes         Low           High
 Pesticide treatment and disposal      No             Yes         Low           High
 Washing of used containers            Yes            No          High          High
 Size reduction of used containers     Yes            No          Low           High
 Used container transport              Yes            No          High          High
 Used container treatment/disposal     Yes            No          High          High
 Management of washwater               Yes            No          High          High

The marine transport component in Tanzania is neglected because it is in small scale.

Generally, Table 4.10 indicates that land and marine transport of the obsolete pesticides
must be carried out both locally and internationally by an international contractor. On the
other hand, pesticide treatment must be done outside Tanzania by an international
contractor. In contrast, washing of used containers, size reduction of used containers,
used container transport, used container treatment and disposal, and management of
washwater can be done in Tanzania. It is also conceivable that these activities can be
carried out by Tanzanian contractors and consultants too. Inspite of the preceding
conclusion, it is important to note that the feasibility of management of pesticide
contaminated empty containers and washwater in Tanzania by national contractors faces
a number of challenges. One noteworthy challenge pertains to the length of time it will
take the national contractors to mobilize the required human and material resources and
be ready for full scale operations. Another challenge is the resistance expressed by OP
management stakeholders regarding management of pesticide contaminated empty
containers and washwater as discussed earlier.




                                            97
                                  CHAPTER FIVE
5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

5.1. Introduction

Since the introduction of chemical pesticides in the 1940s and 1950s to control disease
and crop production, they have also caused many, varied and widespread adverse impacts
on human health and the environment. Examples of these adverse impacts include death
and disability among pesticide users and the communities around them, global transport
and bio-accumulation of pesticides, contamination of local water supplies and loss of
income to farmers whose produce contains unacceptable levels of pesticide residues.

Improved understanding of the health and environmental hazards associated with
pesticides has led to the development of sophisticated regulatory and control systems
designed to control pesticide trade, management and use. Examples include the
Rotterdam and Stockholm Conventions, the International Code of Conduct on the
Distribution and Use of Pesticides and the OECD Pesticides Working Group.
Furthermore many other mechanisms designed to address chemical management include
pesticides among their concerns.

Nevertheless, the problems caused by pesticide mismanagement persist with huge
impacts in developing countries. Where agriculture is the mainstay of the economy,
pesticides constitute the majority of chemicals in use. The infrastructure controlling and
managing pesticides throughout their life-cycle are often weak and under-resourced, and
the end users of pesticides are usually untrained and poorly equipped to use them safely.
As a result, 99 percent of the estimated three million people poisoned by pesticides each
year are in poor countries and the most serious and persistent problems associated with
environmental contamination from pesticides are also in the developing world.

Mismanagement has also led to the gradual creation of problems that appear to be
unsolved such as the accumulation of vast quantities of pesticides that have become
unusable over the years, and contamination from pesticides that cannot be removed from
the environment.

Stockpiles of obsolete pesticides (OP) are often in a severely deteriorated condition,
poorly stored and located close to habitation or water supplies, and thus represent a
serious risk to human health, ground and surface water, land use, and the environment in
general. The impact is often greatest on the poor as abandoned pesticide stockpiles and
dumps tend to be located in poorer communities where people scavenge for recyclable
and/or reusable items with no awareness of the dangers involved.




                                                                                       98
5.2    Obsolete Pesticides in Tanzania

According to the inventory database, Tanzania has about 700 tons of obsolete pesticides,
3.6 tones of contaminated materials, 1.2 tones of contaminated equipments, 2755.2 of
contaminated soils, 2000 kg of contaminated building materials, and about 382 empty
containers. The stores were classified into three categories of high, medium and low risk
based on toxicity, quantity, surrounding environmental conditions and the security of the
store. The categorization of the stores followed the FAO Environmental Management
Toolkit in which Environmental Factor (Fe) values higher than 50 have been considered
problematic. A criterion related to the risk posed by the type and quantity of the OP (Fp)
was also used whereby a value of above 50,000 was considered to be a high risk factor. In
addition to the WHO class, the condition of the packaging and whether the active
ingredient is known was considered during the evaluation. A total of 9 stores were
classified as high risk, which are found at Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI);
Morogoro Farmers Cooperative Union (MOFACU); Highland Mbarali Estates Farm;
Tumbi Agricultural Research Institute; Lushoto DALDO; Vikuge in the Coast Region;
Uyole Research Farm; Utete former agricultural store; Kingori village which include
Ngyani Cooperative Society in Arumeru district.

The overall obsolete disposal plan has three main components of safeguarding,
transferring to collection centers and transporting the obsolete pesticides from the
collection centers to the shipping port. Therefore, the environmental and social impacts
analysis will cover two main phases that is: (i) prevailing store conditions before project
execution; and (ii) store condition during safeguarding and disposal operation.

5.3    Impacts as per existing conditions of the stores before safeguarding

In order to establish environmental and social impacts a total of 16 stores were visited
which included seven high risk sites, which are at TPRI, Lushoto DALDO, Vikuge
Contaminated Site, Morogoro Farmers Cooperative Union, ARI Tumbi, Highland
Mbarali Estates and Uyole Research Farm. The Medium priority risk sites visited include
Tengeru Plant Health Services Centre, TCB Kurasini, Vingunguti PHS, Kimara Baruti,
Rufiji/Utete Site and Mahonda Sugar Factory in Zanzibar; while the low risk sites visited
were TBA Kilimo, KATC, and GBP (in Tanga). This section dwells on environmental
and social impacts from the OP stores and contaminated sites that prevailed before any
safeguarding under ASP. Detailed information on the GBP site in Tanga is given in
Appendix A. Summary of the impacts of the 16 visited stores including their Fp and Fe
risk factors is depicted in Table 5.1

5.3.1 Environmental Impacts in high risk stores

Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI)

The site is located at Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI) found in Ngaramtoni
area, Arusha region, about 12 km from the Arusha City. The site area is flat and covered



                                                                                        99
with exotic pine tree species. The TPRI site has a total of five stores but only store No.4
and No.5 were visited. TPRI has a total of 23 tons of obsolete pesticide of variety of
pesticides including DDT, Malathion, Actellic, Kloben, Difolatan, Dyban, Trimidan,
Dyfonate, Azosan, TEWCOR, Trysben, DNOC, Dynotox (UC), Risella (UC), Dieldrin
Solution Vesso (UC) and Arelon.

The first store visited is in very good condition in terms of roofing materials, floor, walls,
windows and doors (Plate 5.1). The pesticide containers are safely stacked on shelves or
pallets or in drums, jerry cans, bottles and boxes with varying capacities ranging from 0.5
to 200 litres for liquids; and 1kg to 100kg for solids respectively. About 4000 liters of
DNOC were repacked in salvage drums in the first store (Plates 5.1a). In the second store
that was visited most of the containers were not sealed intact and some damaged and
broken thus giving a bad smell. Pesticides in this store are kept haphazardly (Plate 5.1b).
In terms of security, the site where the store is located is completely fenced with a gate
that is lockable. The size of the first store is 20m long and 10m wide respectively. A
storekeeper assigned to manage the store regularly checks the pesticides containers at
least once a week. A security guard is available 24 hours a day. In terms of safety,
neither fire safety equipment were visible, nor the first aid kits or PPE for the storekeeper
to use.

As already indicated, the stocks are located within the TPRI complex within secure
stores. The main impacts will be on workers due to inhalation of gases that are released
by the obsolete pesticides. This is mainly attributed to leaking pesticides whereby
offensive smell could be felt in the vicinity of the stores especially when doors are open.




Plate 5.1: TPRI store as seen from outside




                                                                                          100
Plate 5.1a: Salvage drums at TPRI




Plate 5.1b: Variety of pesticides in the second store at TPRI.

Morogoro Farmers Cooperative Union (MOFACU)

MOFACU site is situated in Morogoro Municipality adjacent to Morogoro Railway
Station, about 200 km from Dar es Salaam. The site has two stores containing free
standing obsolete pesticides. In adjacent location, the site contains contaminated soil and
buried associated waste. Both sites are located within a gently sloping land towards the
residential blocks near railway station. Downstream from the site at a distance of about
300 metres is the Mji mpya stream that feeds into Ngerengere River. The visited store
was roofed, waterproofed and completely walled with iron sheets (Plate 5.2). The types
of pesticides found in the area include cotoran and unknown pesticides. Most of the
pesticides are kept in 5 litres plastic containers and some in boxes and bottles of various
sizes (Plate 5.2a). The floor is broken and the pesticides containers are randomly placed
on floor. Spillage of obsolete pesticides was observed due to deterioration of some
containers and improper storage of the containers inside store. A Security guard is
engaged to look after the store. Deep smell emerges from the store when the door is



                                                                                       101
opened. Faint smell is felt around the vicinity of the pesticides contaminated site. The site
is fenced and danger signs posted around the site.




Plate 5.2: MOFACU Store 1.




Plate 5.2a: Varieties of pesticides in MOFACU store 1

Human settlements could be found about 500 metres away. Railway station is about 50
metres away from the site. Vegetable cultivation takes place along the Mji mpya stream.
The closest garden downstream is situated at about 300 metres from the site.




Plate 5.2b: Vegetable farm at Mji mpya stream, 300m from the site.

Due to its proximity to human activities and a river system this site has a high potential
for environmental and social impacts. The environmental impacts include the pollution of



                                                                                         102
the Mjimpya stream, exposure of local community to the pesticides including railway
station workers through vapours released by the pesticides or by direct contacts with
leaked pesticides.

Tumbi Agricultural Research Institute

Tumbi site is found at the Tumbi Agricultural Research Institute, Urambo district in
Tabora Region. The pesticides are kept in a substandard store which is cracked as
demonstated in Plate 5.3. Pesticides are partly covered with polythene sheets (Plate 5.3a).
The leaking pesticides produce offensive smell that creates unfriendly environment
around the site. The store is not fenced and there is no security guard specifically
assigned to this site.




Plate 5.3: Tumbi pesticides store




Plate 5.3a Pesticides covered by plastic sheet at Tumbi store




                                                                                       103
The area around the store is covered with forests extending southwards from the site.
Tumbi College is situated on north-eastern side while college workers are residing in
south-western side of the store. Formerly, people used to graze cattle within forest area
around the store; a practice which is now prohibited.




Plate 5.3b: Tumbi store with a poster restricting people from grazing around

The site is a high risk area with a potential for adverse environmental and social impacts.
Leakage and generation of harmful vapours can expose the workers and other local
community members to toxic pesticides. Furthermore, leakage of pesticides can lead to
ecosystem contamination including ground water. Local communities within the vicinity
of the store keep livestock, which can easily graze on contaminated forage material
despite the restriction given not to graze livestock around the store.


Highlands Mbarali Estate

Mbarali pesticides store (at the Highlands Mbarali Estate) is situated about 800 km from
Dar es Salaam at the Mbarali rice farms in Rujewa District, Mbeya Region. The store has
a large quantity of pesticides contributing to 60% of the total amount identified in the
entire Southern Highlands Zone. The Mbarali store is fully walled and roofed with iron
sheets. Its floor however, was showing signs of deterioration before being upgraded. The
store is 9 m long, 4.5 m wide and 2.5m high. Mbarali store contains old stocks of various
pesticides some of which are unknown. The known pesticides are as follows: Ketazine
(4110 kg), BHD (12.50 kg) and BHC (2112.25 kg). The pesticides are kept on floor
(without being on pallets). Some obsolete pesticides are kept in salvage drums while
others are in plastic gunny bags, glass bottles and wooden boxes. Some of the pesticides
containers are leaking and contaminating the floor (Plate 5.4a-b).




                                                                                       104
Plate 5.4: Highland Mbarali Store




Plate 5.4a: Pesticides in salvage drums




                                          105
Plate 5.4b: Leaking pesticides in Mbarali store

The topography where the site is located is relatively flat plain with gentle gradient
towards the rice farm. The surrounding land is used for agricultural purposes mostly
paddy cultivation. The site is very close to irrigation canal and about 30 metres from fish
ponds.

Potential impacts related to this store include the exposure of workers and surrounding
community to hazardous chemicals due to leakage of the pesticides. However, inspite of
the close proximity of the OP store to the fish ponds, it is unlikely for the stored OPs to
get into it because: 1) the OPs are stored in a secure storage building 2) the fish ponds are
provided with a concrete liner, and 3) the OP storage building and the fish ponds are
separated by an irrigation canal which is lined with concrete slabs that are in good
condition.

Uyole Research Farm

The store at the Uyole Research Farm is located in the Uyole Agricultural Research
Institute and Training centre in Mbeya Region about 14 km from Mbeya City. The store
size is 20 m long and 10 m wide with impermeable floor. The site is fenced. The top half
of the walls are constructed using wire mesh material that allows light and air to circulate
in and outside the store. The store accommodates very old stocks of pesticides
comprising Didimac, Kynakil, Alandrin, Pentachlorophenol Natrium, 2,4-D and
Helmamine 720 EC. Some of the stocks are stacked in shelves and others are on floor
(Plate 5.5a) while other containers are leaking thus contaminating the materials and
equipments as well as the floor and walls of the store. The store also has repackaged
mixed powder pesticides stored in plastic sacks (Plate 5.5b).




                                                                                         106
Plate 5.5: Uyole farm store




Plate 5.5a: Pesticides stacked on shelves at Uyole




Plate 5.5b: Repackaged pesticides



                                                     107
Living quarters and office accommodation are found within the ARI- Uyole site,
including students hostels, teachers’ quarters and offices which are located not far from
the store. Agricultural activities are also conducted around the vicinity of the site. The
leaking pesticides produce offensive odour around the vicinity of the store. This can
affect the students and workers within the institute.

The potential impacts from the Uyole stores include direct health impacts to workers and
students who can be easily get exposed to the obsolete pesticides. Others are surface and
ground water pollution due to leaking obsolete pesticides and introduction of obsolete
pesticides into the food chain due to the farming activities that are carried out within the
vicinity of the improperly managed stores.

Lushoto DALDO

The site is located at the office of the Agriculture and Livestock Development Officer for
the Lushoto District in Tanga Region. The site contains buried pesticides. The burial site
is adjacent to the DALDO office.




Figure 5.6: Lushoto DALDO buried pesticide site


The store is generally in a bad condition and the pesticides, especially blue copper, are
not safeguarded. In view of this, the site has a high potential for environmental and social


                                                                                        108
impacts. Leakage and generation of bad odour can expose the workers and nearby local
community members to toxic pesticides. Sugarcane grown around the store is prone to
contamination by pesticides (Figure 5.6b). Since the soil is highly contaminated, there is
a possibility of pollution of groundwater from buried pesticides (Figure 5.6a).




Figure 5.6a: Blue copper as excavated from the buried site beside Lushoto DALDO store




Figure 5.6b: Sugarcane growing on contaminated soil of buried copper at DALDO
             Lushoto.




                                                                                      109
Vikuge Contaminated site

Vikuge contaminated site is located in Kibaha District in Pwani Region. The site
originally had a stockpile of DDT amounting to 250 tons abandoned in the open yard.
The stock was later repacked and moved into a secure storage. The area which is highly
contaminated with DDT was subsequently fenced to prevent access.




Figure 5.7a: Vikuge store – front view




Figure 5.7b: Vikuge site – inside store



                                                                                  110
Figure 5.7c: DDT Contaminated soil at Vikuge




Figure 5.7d: Soil saturated with DDT at Vikuge site



                                                      111
The contaminated area, which is located upstream, is largely a flatland gently sloping
towards the north where Vikuge village is situated. At the contaminated site, strong smell
of DDT can be felt with visible DDT powder scattered on the soil surface. Many bottle
caps from DDT containers were also observed. The predominant type of soil is sandy
soil, which normally facilitate fast movement of contaminants since it has high hydraulic
conductivity. DDT bags were stored in the open air and clearly significant amounts of
DDT powder remain on the soil. McDowall (2009a) reported that DDT has been detected
in nearby drinking wells and therefore the contaminant and its metabolites have likely
entered into the food chain. Agenda (2005) observed that the level of contamination of
water and sediments by pesticides and metabolites appears to be related to point source
contamination by pesticide residues from the heavily contaminated Vikuge site. Vikuge
Village entirely depends on water from seasonal streams and wetlands, boreholes and
local wells even though there is tap water which is not reliable. The findings of
McDowall (2009a) and (Agenda, 2005) suggest potential high risks and cause for public
health concerns.

5.3.2 Environmental Impacts in Medium Risk Stores

Vingunguti Site

The site is located in Ilala Municipal Council within the City of Dar es Salaam, about 8
km from the city centre on the highway to Mwl Julius Nyerere International Airport. The
store is owned by MAFS&C and is still in use as intermediate storage site for pesticides
to be distributed to other regions. The safeguarded obsolete pesticides in drums are kept
in the roofed passage outside main store. Types of the pesticides found are Atrazine,
Fenvelarate, Pirimiphos- methyl and brodifacoum. The stocks were safeguarded and
packed in 2003 by NEMC. However, some drums containing pesticides and other waste
chemicals are rusting and leaking (Plate 5.6). The leaked chemical drains into the ground
and other furniture including electronic wastes such as computer parts. Other empty
packages of waste product are piled up outside the main store. Faint smell is detected
around the vicinity of the storage site. The site is surrounded by high density residential
area, Vingunguti market and industrial area.

This store is located in a very high density area close to an abattoir. The area has a high
water table and there are several shallow wells that are used by the residents.
Nonetheless, based on the Fp and Fe criteria, the Vingunguti site poses a medium risk.




                                                                                       112
Plate 5.6: Pesticides repacked in drums at Vingunguti store


Tanzania Cotton Board (TCB) Kurasini Site

The TCB store is found in Temeke Municipal Council, Mivinjeni area-Kurasini, within
the City of Dar es Salaam, about 7km from the city centre. The store is actually a
warehouse No.7, which formerly was used by the Tanzania Cotton Board (TCB) to store
cotton. The size of the store is 62m long and 38m wide with a concrete floor. At present,
there is no cotton in this godown except the pesticides and other associated wastes. The
types of pesticides found in the store are Bromadiolone, Atrazine, Fluometuron, Laddok,
Thiabendazole and other unknown obsolete pesticides and waste chemicals. Some of the
containers including paper bags and boxes are completely torn-out and the polythene
sheets that formerly covered the products are also completely deteriorated (Plate 5.7a and
5.7b).


The site is well protected as the entry is fully controlled. The site is surrounded by other
godowns, TCB offices and the commercial buildings. The impacts in this store are not
high due to the fact that the store is much secured and there is very little probability of the
OP finding its way into the water bodies or flora because the store floor is very secure.




                                                                                           113
Plate 5.7a: Rusting drums with unknown pesticides in the TCB Store




Plate 5.7b: Cotton wastes and pesticides contaminated materials at the TCB store




                                                                                   114
Kimara Baruti Site

The site is found at Kimara area-Kinondoni Municipality within the City of Dar es
Salaam, about 16 km from the city centre. The site has two stores (store no. 58 and 59).
The two stores are of equal size, fenced and roofed with corrugated iron sheets and with
secure walls of cement blocks (Plate 5.8). The sizes of the two stores are 18m long and
11m wide. Store no. 58 contains chemicals while store no. 59 contains few pesticides
which are packed in steel drums (Plate 5.8b). In store No. 58 the following pesticides are
found: Fluazifop-P-butyl, BHC Lindane, Brodifacoum and other unknown pesticides and
waste chemicals. Store No. 59 contain pirimiphos-methyl and other unknown pesticides.
The two stores are well secured. However they are poorely ventilanted, resulting into
being very hot inside. There is also poor lighting inside. In store No 58 the pesticides are
kept in sisal sacks, boxes and glass bottles (Plate 5.8a). Deep smell was felt inside and
around the vicinity of the stores. Since the stores are well secured, the negative
environmental and social impacts are low.




Plate 5.8: Kimara Baruti Store No. 58




Plate 5.8a: Various pesticides containers at Kimara Baruti store No. 58




                                                                                        115
Plate 5.8b: Stocks at Kimara Baruti store no. 59



Mahonda Sugar Factory (MSF) Site

The MSF site is located within the premises of Mahonda Sugar Factory, in Unguja North
District. There are two major stores, namely: the chemical store and the main store. The
chemical store is of medium risk while the main store falls under low risk. The obsolete
pesticides found in the chemical store include Bayleton, Dimepaz, Cypercal, Thionex and
empty containers with unknown pesticides and other waste chemicals. In addition 20
litres drums suspected to contain sulphuric acid were also present. Plates 5.9 to 5.9b show
the surrounding conditions of the store. It is noteworthy that, despite the positive image
apparent from Figure 5.9, the risk level assessment of this site based on the Fp and Fe
values is medium.




Plate 5.9: MSF site showing chemical store- front and back view




                                                                                       116
Plate 5.9a: Caked pesticides which leaked into floor after the container collapsed.




Plate 5.9b: Glass bottles containing unknown pesticides in MSF store


Rufiji/Utete Site

The site is located in Utete Town in Rufiji District in Pwani Region. The store is
dilapidated and situated close to a residential area. Adjacent to the store is a cow and
poultry shed. It is noteworthy that, the field visit observations categorises the site as high
risk, as opposed to the status of medium risk arrived at based on Fp and Fe risk
classification criteria.




                                                                                          117
Plate 5.10: Rufiji/Utete store: Front view




Plate 5.10a: Rufiji/Utete store as viewed from the left side




Plate 5.10b: A cow and poultry shed located adjacent to the Rufiji store




                                                                           118
Tengeru PHS Site

Location: Plant Protection Office, Tengeru, Meru District. Arusha
Contamination: Buried malathion
Environment: Site is situated at the Plant Health Service (PHS). The office is a locust
control centre for Tanzania. At the site where the pesticide was buried there is no
vegetation but nearby there is a water channel.

Pesticides in drums were kept outside the office in the year 2000. Drums rusted overtime
and the contents leaked to the soil. The drums were subsequently buried at the area within
the PHS office site close to a water stream. The buried pesticide was covered with
polyethylene bags at the top to prevent foul odour.


Tengeru site




Plate 5.11a: TPHS site contaminated with malathion




                                                                                      119
Plate 5.11b: Site situated adjacent to PHS offices




Plate 5.11c: Site situated adjacent to PHS offices



                                                     120
5.3.3 Environmental Impacts in Low Risk Stores

Kilimanjaro Agricultural Training College (KATC) Site

The KATC site is found in Chekereni village within the premises of Kilimanjaro
Agricultural Training College (KATC). The college is a government owned institution
situated about 16 km from Moshi Town. The site has three stores where pesticides are
kept. In addition there is one location where drums containing pesticides are buried. Two
of the stores at the KATC are well built and secure while the third store is crumpling
down. The three stores at KATC, which include a steel container, contain a variety of
known and unknown pesticides (Plate 5.12). Pesticides are contained in steel drums and
some in aluminum drums and polythene bags. Some drums are broken and rusting and
therefore leaking their contents on the floor as seen in Plates 5.12a. Smell was detected
at the buried site as well as around the vicinity of the store and the steel container. The
site is fenced and guarded, therefore not easily accessible by outsiders. The access road
has rough surface but passable in all seasons. Agricultural activities are being conducted
in the surrounding area.




Plate 5.12: A steel container packed inside with varieties of unknown
            pesticides at KATC site




                                                                                       121
Plate 5.12a: Broken steel drums containing carbides in the KATC store

Tanzania Building Agency (TBA) Kilimo Site

The Tanzania Building Agency (TBA) store situated off road in Moshi Town is owned by
TBA. The store is roofed with corrugated iron sheets and walled with cement blocks. The
floor of the store is crumpling down. The size of the store is 13 m in long and 7 m wide.
Apart from containing obsolete DDT, the store also contains timber, furniture and
different kinds of solid waste such as scrap metal, boxes and paper (Plate 5.13a and
5.13b). The store is not well ventilated and there is irritating smell of DDT and a lot of
dust. There are a lot of activities going on adjacent to the store, including those associated
with a container that was formerly used to keep a mixture of urea and mollases, as well as
furniture manufacturing and timber selling. In addition, food vendors cook and sell their
food just outside the store and the residential houses are hardly ten meters from the store.
The workers close to the store claimed that they sometimes feel headache when they
spend a long time in close proximity to the site. Despite the gloomy picture painted by the
preceding descriptions, Fp and Fe values classify the TBA site as a medium risk one.
Nonetheless, it is recommended that this site is given a high priority among the medium
risk site.




Plate 5.13a: TBA store and its surrounding environment


                                                                                          122
Plate 5.13b: DDT and other unknown pesticides in TBA store


GBP Site (Tanga Sulfur)

The site which contained over 600 tons of sulfur and unknown chemical is situated at the
yard of the defunct Tanganyika Fertilizer Company (TFA). The site is currently owned
by an oil company, the GBP. Detailed environmental impacts and EMP are discussed
separately as Appendix A.




Plate 5.14: Sulfur and sulfur contaminated soil and packaging materials within GBP
compound in Tanga.

Table 5.1 presents a summary of the information on risk category, conditions of OP and
OP store surroundings, and impacts from the different categories of the stores discussed
in preceding text.



                                                                                    123
Table 5 1: Summary of environmental and social impacts

S/N   Site Name         Fp value     Fe      Risk       Condition of Pesticides   Potential environmental           Potential health
                                    value    Category   & Surroundings            impacts                           impacts
                        13907 –    23 - 29
                        711044                          a) Leaking                                                  Human contamination
                                                                                                                    Respiratory diseases
 1    TPRI                                   High       b) Offensive odour        Nuisance
      MOFACU
                        526416       37
                                                        a) Leaking                                                  Human contamination
      i) Store A, B                                     b) Offensive odour                                          Respiratory diseases
      &C                                     High                                 Nuisance                          Nuisance
                        526416       37                                           Underground contamination
                                                                                  Crop contamination
      ii) Buried                                                                  Pollution downstream to
 2    pesticides site                        High       Contaminated soil         receiving bodies
                        1691 –     37 - 55
                        1920000                                                                                     Human contamination
                                                        a) Leaking                Ground contamination              Ground contamination
                                                                                                                    Respiratory diseases
 3    Tumbi                                  High       b) Offensive odour        Nuisance                          Nuisance
                        1242858      32
                                                        a) Leaking                                                  Human contamination
                                                                                                                    Respiratory diseases
 4    Uyole Farm                             High       b) Offensive odour        Nuisance
                        2409440      36
                                                                                                                    Human contamination
                                                        a) Leaking                Contaminating irrigation canals
      Highland                                                                                                      Respiratory diseases
 5    Mbarali Estates                        High       b) Offensive odour        Nuisance                          Nuisance
                        145600       53                                           Soil and groundwater
      Lushoto                                                                     contamination
 6    DALDO                                  High       Contaminated soil         Crop contamination
 7    Vikuge Site       7000000    48 - 69




                                                                                                                                           124
S/N   Site Name        Fp value     Fe      Risk       Condition of Pesticides    Potential environmental   Potential health
                                   value    Category   & Surroundings             impacts                   impacts
                       7000000    48 - 69
                                                                                                            Human contamination
                                                                                  soil and groundwater
                                                       a) Leaking DDT             contamination
      i) Vikuge New                                    b) Offensive odour                                   Respiratory diseases
      Store                                                                       Nuisance

      ii) Vikuge old                                   Inhabitated by dangerous
      store                                            snakes                                               Threat to human health

      iii)
      Contaminated
      ground                                High                                  Soil contamination

                       363000       51                                            soil and groundwater
                                                       a) Contaminated soil       contamination
                                                       b) Faint smell around      Pollution downstream
                                                       a) Contaminated soil                                 Respiratory diseases
                                                                                  Ground contamination
      TPHC (Buried
 8    site)                                 Medium                                Pollution downstream
                       512840       40                 (a) Mixed product,
                                                       randomly stored and some
                                                       leaking                    -                         -
                                                       (b) Faint smell                                      Respiratory effects
                                                       (c) contaminated floor     -                         -
 9    TCB Kurasini                          Medium
                       297304       30                 (a) Site previously
                                                       safeguarded and well
                                                       managed
                                                       (b) Slight leakage         Pollution downstream      Pollution downstream
                                                       (c) Faint smell                                      Respiratory effects
10    Vingunguti                            Medium




                                                                                                                                     125
S/N   Site Name        Fp value     Fe      Risk       Condition of Pesticides       Potential environmental          Potential health
                                   value    Category   & Surroundings                impacts                          impacts
                       34232 -    30 - 31
11    Kimara Baruti    116208               Medium     (a) Store poorly ventilated
                       1200000      43                 (b) Some leakages                                              -
                                                       (c) faint smell                                                Respiratory effect

12    Utete - Rufiji                        Medium     (a) Dilapidated structure
                       4585 -       38                 (b) Contaminated floor        Soil and groundwater pollution
                       101350                          and soil                      Pollution downstream
      Mahonda Sugar                                    (c) Faint smell
      Factory,
13    Zanzibar                              Medium     (a) Mixed stock
                       1500000      53                 (b) Some leakages                                              Human contamination
                                                       (c)Faint smell                                                 Respiratory effects
                                                       (d) contaminated material
                                                       and equipment

                                                                                                                      Human contamination
      GBP (Tanga                                                                                                      Respiratory diseases
14    Sulphur)                              Low        Faint smell                   Nuisance

                                                       Contaminating floor and                                        Human contamination
                                                       associated wastes             Ground contamination
15    TBA Kilimo       320000       29      Low        Faint smell                                                    Respiratory diseases
      KATC             210420       30
                                                                                     Soil and groundwater
      i) Buried site                                   Contaminated soil             contamination

                                                       Leaking                                                        Human contamination
      ii) KATC store                                   Faint smell                                                    Respiratory diseases
      iii) Container
16    store                                 Low        Faint smell around                                             Respiratory diseases




                                                                                                                                             126
5.4      Disposal Operation Impacts

A variety of environmental and social impacts are likely to occur during safeguarding,
transportation and final disposal of the obsolete pesticides. These are appropriately
presented in Chapter Six.

5.5      Views and Concerns of Local Communities on Obsolete Pesticides

5.5.1 Overview

In order to gauge concerns of the local communities and the potential of triggering the
World Bank Operational Policy OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement a special field visit
was organized using four high risk sites as samples. The sampled sites were Vikuge in the
Coastal zone, Morogoro Farmers Cooperative Union in Central zone, HighlandMbarali
Estates Store and Agriculture research Institute in Southern Highlands zone. The main
stakeholders consulted at each site were a composite of ordinary members of the
communities that included farmers, livestock keepers, school teachers, health and local
government officers. However the actual composition of community members who
attended the meeting differ from one site to another depending on the local conditions
and the status of the site. The main method used for the data gathering at each site was
public meetings in which the communities were initially given a brief explanation on the
clean up and disposal programme for ASP and thereafter invited to give their views. On
average each meeting took about four hours. Plate 5.15, 5.15a and 5.15b show public
meetings at Vikuge, MOFACU and Uyole respectively. Based on the public consultations
the findings can be grouped into general and specific.

5.5.2 General findings

Two main general findings were identified, firstly on awareness of the existence of
obsolete pesticides and fatigue of public consultations on obsolete pesticides effects. The
level of awareness on obsolete pesticide problems differ in the four sites. The level of
awareness was highest at the Viguke site followed by both MOFACU and Uyole sites. It
was lowest at Mbarali site probably due to the fact that the site is privately owned and
local community is not directly exposed to it. The awareness is high at Viguke because
the site has been widely discussed in the local press and some NGOs are involved in
creating awareness on obsolete pesticides in the area. However, most of the communities
interviewed indicated that they have limited knowledge on pesticides, their usage and
effects. Due to lack of knowledge among community members, many could not give
concrete recommendations arguing that they believe the government has enough
knowledgeable people who can propose on how best to handle the problems of obsolete
pesticides. However, few of them were fairly informed of the effects of pesticides and
suggested that the following should be considered during safeguarding and disposal
operations:

      o Use of appropriate PPE



                                                                                       127
   o Workers be given milk to reduce the effects from dust (Not all kind of toxicity can
     be neutralized by milk).
   o Awareness campaign prior to commencing safeguarding operation

At Vikuge site community were aware on some mitigation that could be taken to avoid
OP contamination. These included avoidance to pass through or grazing on the pesticide
contaminated area. However, they admitted that before the area was fenced they used to
pass and even graze in the contaminated area. At Uyole, Mbarali and Morogoro the
communities did not take particular precautions as obsolete pesticides were confined in
closed stores.




Plate 5.15: Public meeting at Vikuge




                                                                                    128
Plate 5.15a: Public meeting at MOFACU in Morogoro




Plate 5.15b: Public Meeting at Uyole


It is worth mentioning that during the meetings it became clear that some participants
were tired of being consulted on the same issue for many years now. They reported that
the Government in the past has informed them on the plan to remove obsolete pesticides
from their areas (about more than 10 years ago). The plan is not implemented as yet and
instead more and more meetings are still being held on the same issue. Due to this, some
people could not come to the meetings because of being tired of hearing the same issue
repeated over-and-over again without any action.




                                                                                    129
5.5.3 Specific findings

Several specific issues were raised by the communities, which include immediate
removal of the OP, compensation of the properties, environmental impacts operations and
employment opportunities during safeguarding. On quick removal of the OP, the
communities are looking forward for the OP to be finally removed. However, all the
communities interviewed are worried about the mpacts of the disposal operations on their
properties. Especially if project could lead to the demolitions of houses and some public
facilities including water supply. The communities would like the government to
compensate all the properties that will be affected during disposal operations and that has
been affected over years due to the presence of obsolete pesticides. On environmental
impacts, the communities were concerned with the dust that could be generated during
the implementation of the project. They proposed that the contractors must provide means
of protection from the generated dust. The communities also wanted to benefit from
employment opportunities that will arise from the project activities. This means that the
contractor should provide employment opportunities for the local communities. Finally,
the communities showed readiness to temporarily shifting to other locations during the
implementation phase if it will be necessary. They recommended that they should be
given prior notice of at least three months.

Based on the public consultations it is apparent that the safeguarding operations will not
lead to resettlements as long as the mitigation measures are fully adhered to during the
implementation phase. The main issue especially at Vikuge site relates to actions that
should be taken on the environmental elements that have already been affected by the
presence of the obsolete pesticides.

5.6    Impacts on natural habitats

Surveys have shown that areas in vicinity of the OP stores and contaminated sites have
already been disturbed by human activities and as such have lost their natural habitats
status. Therefore, this project will not trigger OP 4.04 on Natural Habitats.




                                                                                       130
                                   CHAPTER SIX

6.0 ENVIRONNEMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)

6.1    General Context

Information and specific data on quantities of OPs, OP associated waste, and pesticide
contaminated sites in Tanzania have been presented and discussed in detail in Chapter
Four (See Tables 4.2 – 4.7 and Figures 4.1 – 4.2f). Evidently, the amount of OPs is
substantial and as such requires intervention for safeguarding public health and the
environment. However, as presented in Chapter Four, the analysis of the OP data show
that only a small amount (maximum 0.5%) of the total amount of OPs in Tanzania is
classified as Class 1a and1b. This fact will allow for easier intervention and demand
much less stringent safety precautions during safeguarding. Regarding the 2,000 kg of
contaminated building material and components (Table 4.2), the highly contaminated
portion will be removed from its respective sites and packed for incineration which will
be undertaken by a disposal contractor. The 600 tons of heavily contaminated soil could
also be considered for disposal in the same way as the OPs by the disposal contractor.
The portions of the contaminated soil and contamination building materials and
components that are not highly contaminated can be disposed of in an engineered landfill.
In addition to being properly lined and having multiple provisions for pollutant migration
prevention, the site for the landfill should not be prone to natural or anthropogenic agents
that might compromise the integrity of the landfill.

Chapter Two and Three provide the relevant background information on Tanzania in
terms of biophysical and socio-economic, policy, legal and institutional frame work
respectively. The biophysical and socio-economic background information shows that the
stores containing the OPs are found in all 26 regions of the country and can affect
different ecological systems and population centers. A close look, however, shows that
most of the obsolete pesticides are concentrated in the coastal zone, in regions along the
highways from Dar es Salaam through Morogoro, Iringa and Mbeya, plus the regions in
the north eastern part of the country. Small quantities are found in the regions around
Lake Victoria and in the southern and western zones of the country. The stores are
located in different types of local environments including built-up areas of high
population density and in isolated rural settings. In addition, the biophysical background
also shows that some areas in the country where stores are located do not have very good
roads and other important infrastructure including specially equipped hospitals that can
be used for emergency operations. Therefore, in the preparation of the EMP these
constraints were taken into account.

Chapter Three shows that Tanzania has the policy, legal and institutional framework for
dealing with OPs. The critical aspect is the limited capacity to fully implement the policy,
legal and administrative requirements. Chapter Five shows the environmental and social
risks that can be associated with the disposal of the OPs. The environmental risks include
the pollution of surface and ground water, exposure of flora and fauna partly through



                                                                                        131
farming or grazing activities and direct health impacts to workers and the local
communities through indirect or direct exposure to OPs.

6.2      Objective

The objective of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for this CESA is to provide
a strategy for the management of OPs with a specific focus on safeguarding and final
disposal of the OPs and pesticide contaminated empty containers in order to reduce the
impacts and risks posed by poor management of OPs throughout Tanzania.

The EMP covers all aspect related to the safeguarding and disposal operations such as the
prioritisation of sites to be safeguarded, the identification of suitable main collection
centres; repackaging operations including registration; transport; storage and also
addresses the final disposal options (local/international) of the OP including compliance
with relevant international chemical conventions, codes of practice and agreements (e.g.
the Basel Convention; IMDG Code and ADR Agreement; among others).

To ensure that all current and potential future impacts of the OP stores and contaminated
sites are covered, the EMP will be implemented in two steps. Step 1 will focus on
mitigation of effects of the current situation while Step 2 will focus on mitigation of
effects of safeguarding and disposal operations.

To prevent public health and environmental hazards from getting out of hand at OP stores
and contaminated sites that are in critical conditions, emergency safeguarding will be
carried out while awaiting the main safeguarding and disposal measures.


6.3      Environmental Management Plan Background and Considerations

The EMP builds up on the general approach described in the ASP Operational Manual
particularly on sections under Safeguarding and Disposal; together with the findings of
Chapters One to Four of this report and especially the analysis of the data on OPs in
Chapter 4. Important details on the development of the EMP are presented in Section 1.6.

The EMP has been prepared by adopting an interactive approach including the following
steps. The first stage is to take the information presented under Chapters One to Five of
this report and provide details on how the potential risk posed by obsolete pesticides will
be reduced or eliminated.

This is presented with the following:

      (i) Safeguarding Strategy
      (ii) Disposal Strategy
      (iii)Activities related to safeguarding




                                                                                       132
6.4     Mitigation Measures for Current Impacts

Before undertaking the main operation of safeguarding and disposal of Ops, and its
associated waste, it is a matter of urgency to implement emergency measures in specific
sites among the high risk sites identified. These measures include the fencing off the area
and posting of warning signs to keep passersby off the site.

Emergency and safeguarding measures

Before the main planned safeguarding operations commence, emergence safeguarding
measures need to be taken to put an end to health and environmental risks from
deteriorated OP storage facilities.The emergence safeguarding measures will be similar to
the ones previously carried out by NEMC at various OP stores in the country. They
include repackaging of chemicals whose containers are deteriorated; fencing off OP
stores and pesticide contaminated areas; and rehabilitation of seriously dilapidated OP
stores. The types and extents of the emergence safeguarding measures will be assessed on
a case by case basis using data obtained from surveys carried out by NEMC nationwide
previously.

As previously done, the emergence safeguarding measures will be undertaken by ASP
PMU staff and done by trained operators. Table 6.1 illustrates the emergency
safeguarding measures that can be taken with respect to a selection of stores.

Environmental and social management activities, their impacts as well as their preventive
and mitigations measures, institutional responsibilities, implementation schedules, and
pertinent cost estimates are outlined in Table 6.5.

Table 6.1: Emergency safeguarding measures that can be taken with respect to a
selection of OP stores

 S/N   Site name         Risk       Condition of     Potential impacts   Emergency safeguarding
                         category   pesticides &                         measures
                                    surroundings
 2     MOFACU            High       Contaminated     Underground         Fencing off the contaminated
       ii) Buried                   soil             contamination       area and posting signs to
       pesticides site                               Crop                warn passersby of imminent
                                                     contamination       hazards
                                                     Pollution
                                                     downstream to
                                                     receiving bodies
 6     LUSHOTO           High       Contaminated     Underground         Fencing off the contaminated
       DALDO                        soil             contamination       area
                                                     Crop
                                                     contamination
 7     VIKUGE SITE
       ii) Vikuge old    High       Inhabitated by   Threat to human     Fencing off the affected area
           store                    dangerous        health              and posting signs to warn
                                    snakes                               passersby of imminent
                                                                         hazards
       iii)              High                        Ground/Soil         Fencing off the affected area


                                                                                                133
 S/N      Site name        Risk       Condition of     Potential impacts   Emergency safeguarding
                           category   pesticides &                         measures
                                      surroundings
          Contaminated                                 contamination       and posting signs to warn
          ground                                                           passersby of imminent
                                                                           hazards.
 9        TBA Kilimo       Low        Contaminating    Human
                                      floor            contamination       Fencing off the affected area
                                      &associated      Ground              and posting signs to warn
                                      wastes           contamination       passersby of imminent
                                      Faint smell      Respiratory         hazards
                                                       diseases
 10       KATC             Low        Contaminated     Underground         Fencing off the affected area
          i) Buried site              soil             contamination       and posting signs to warn
                                                                           passersby of imminent
                                                                           hazards.
 11       TPHC (Buried     Medium     a)               Ground              Fencing off the affected area
          site)                       Contaminated     contamination       and posting signs to warn
                                      soil             Pollution           passersby of imminent
                                                       downstream          hazards.
                                      b) Faint smell   Respiratory
                                      around           diseases

Rehabilitation work which is required to be done on stores that are dilapidated with a
view to making them meet minimum acceptable health and environmental protection
standards is estimated to cost about US$ 130,000.

6.5       Strategy

6.5.1 Safeguarding activities

The below proposed strategy for management of the OP follows the approach which has
been introduced and FAO and the World Bank in similar cases in Africa and Eastern
Europe. It includes the following activities:

      o   Safeguarding – moving OP from current stores to central stores
      o   Repackaging – if required repackaging will take place
      o   Transportation of containers packaged in accordance with international standards
      o   Disposal – disposal through high temperature incineration at approved
          installations

Ideally, safeguarding of OP stocks must involve proper containerization and labeling of
OPs, cleaning these containers off the pesticides, and placing these containers in a safe
and secure place that would meet the international requirements for safe storage of
hazardous wastes/pesticides.

The decision on whether or not to repackage OPs, will be based on:

          Condition of containers
          Size of containers


                                                                                                  134
       Type and quality of containers (for example, OPs in containers made of delicate
       materials that are liable to leak will be repackage whereas OPs in robust
       containers will not necessarily be repackaged).

However, where information on the condition and quality of OP containers is not
conclusive, the OP has to be repackaged. It should be recognized that new containers will
need to be provided to replace leaky containers. Consequently, the pesticide contaminated
leaky containers will need to be disposed of alongside the pesticide contaminated empty
containers.

The main activities that will be involved in safeguarding will be: verification of the
stocks, repacking (liquid, solid), transportation (loading, transport, unloading), storage at
central store, containerization, and final transport.

Regarding the current situation of stocks in stores, repackaging is planned for stocks
currently stored at high risk stores depicted in Table 6.2.

Table 6.2: Safeguarding measures that can be taken with respect to a selection of OP
stores
 S/N   Site name       Risk       Condition of   Potential impacts   Emergency safeguarding
                       category   pesticides &                       measures
                                  surroundings
 1     TPRI            High       a) Leaking     Human               Repackaging of OP from
                                                 contamination       leaky containers.
                                  b) Offensive   Respiratory
                                  odour          diseases
                                                 Nuisance            Repackaging of OP from
                                                                     leaky containers.
 2     MOFACU
       i) Store A, B   High       a) Leaking     Human               Repackaging of OP from
       &C                                        contamination       leaky containers.
                                  b) Offensive   Respiratory
                                  odour          diseases
                                                 Nuisance            Repackaging of OP from
                                                                     leaky containers.
 3     TUMBI           High       a) Leaking     Human
                                                 contamination
                                                 Ground              Repackaging of OP from
                                                 contamination       leaky containers.
                                  b) Offensive   Respiratory
                                  odour          diseases
                                                 Nuisance            Repackaging of OP from
                                                                     leaky containers.
 4     UYOLE           High       a) Leaking     Human               Repackaging of OP from
       FARM                                      contamination       leaky containers.
                                  b) Offensive   Respiratory
                                  odour          diseases
                                                 Nuisance            Repackaging of OP from
                                                                     leaky containers.
 5     MBARALI         High       a) Leaking     Human
       ESTATE                                    contamination



                                                                                         135
 S/N    Site name        Risk       Condition of     Potential impacts   Emergency safeguarding
                         category   pesticides &                         measures
                                    surroundings
                                                     Contaminating       Repackaging of OP from
                                                     irrigation canals   leaky containers.
                                    b) Offensive     Respiratory
                                    odour            diseases
                                                     Nuisance            Repackaging of OP from
                                                                         leaky containers.
 7      VIKUGE
        SITE
        i) Vikuge        High       a) Leaking DDT   Human               Repackaging of OP from
        New Store                                    contamination       leaky containers.
                                                     Underground
                                                     contamination
                                    b) Offensive     Respiratory         Repackaging of OP from
                                    odour            diseases            leaky containers.
                                                     Nuisance
 9      TBA Kilimo       Low        Contaminating    Human               Repackaging the waste
                                    floor            contamination
                                    &associated      Ground
                                    wastes           contamination
                                    Faint smell      Respiratory
                                                     diseases
 10     KATC
        ii) KATC         Low        Leaking          Human
        store                                        contamination
                                    Faint smell      Respiratory         Repackaging of OP from
                                                     diseases            leaky containers.
        iii) Container   Low        Faint smell      Respiratory         Repackaging of OP from
        store                       around           diseases            leaky containers

6.5.2   Safeguarding strategy

It was considered advantageous to establish OP main collection centres (MCC) to which
OP stocks from other stores would be transferred for safer storage and convenient
transportation during subsequent management stages of the OP stocks. The rationale for
moving the OPs from the individual stores to the central stores (or collection centres) can
be summed up as:

- To facilitate security because it is easier to secure few than many stores.
- To facilitate final transportation of the OPs by consolidating their storage.
- To transfer OPs from stores that are not suitable for storing OPs because of unsuitable
  location and environmental or public health concerns.
- To reduce costs of improving the stores, because it is cheaper and easier to improve
  fewer stores than all the individual stores.

The evaluation of the potential of the available individual stores to be used as main
MCCs was based on a number of key criteria derived from technical and techno-socio-


                                                                                                 136
economic considerations with a view of protecting people and the environment from
being exposed to the hazardous OPs.

The final list of the OP MCCs was derived based on the considerations listed below.
These considerations were used to both qualify suitable stores and eliminate unsuitable
ones:
       Location characteristics of the potential store, including the store not being close
       to water bodies.
       The potential of the store to trigger the World Bank’s OP 4.12 on Involuntary
       Resettlement and OP 4.04 on Natural habitats.
       Accessibility of the store for both transfer of OP stocks from the other stores and
       transfer of OP stocks stored at the MCCs to the shipping port. Accessibility was
       judged on the basis of availability and passability of roads connecting the OP
       source stores and the potential MCCs. To be considered passable, the roads had to
       be accessible throughout the year.
       Centrality of the MCC locations with a view to minimising the overall transport
       distance (roadmaps for the selected MCCs are presented in Appendix 6.1).
       Security of the OP stocks during transport through all transport routes pertinent to
       the MCC.
       Current condition of the store and its potential for improvement to the standard
       suitable for an MCC (for example, having non-leaking roof; impervious floor,
       having walls with no cracks, and having unbroken/fully closable windows).

After evaluating all potential OP stores based on the above considerations, only six (6)
stores listed in Table 6.3 were found to be suitable as MCCs. As is obvious from the table
entries, the selected MCCs were assigned to six geographical zones covering the whole of
Tanzania.

Details on the determination of free space in the stores are available in the FAO
Environmental Management Tool Kit (EMTK) Vol. 2 Toolkit D. The example given
below serves to illustrate the assumptions made and procedure followed.

Solid obsolete pesticides will be packed in flexible intermediate bulk containers with a
capacity of 1m3 (750 kg). Liquid obsolete pesticides will be filled in 200 litre drums.
These packaging could be placed on a standard pallet which occupies an area of 1.25 m2.
We can take the case of Mahonda major collection center as an example. The Mahonda
MCC has a total floor area of 50 m2 and an OP stock of 2.5 tons.

2.5 tons =2500 kg, and 750 kg of OP take up 1.25 m2.

To determine the floor area that will be occupied by 2500 kg of OP, we proceed as
follows:


2500 kg will occupy Af floor area;



                                                                                       137
To allow for free movement for inspection and safety, a margin of 60% of the total area is
recommended. Factoring the 60% margin into the floor area derived above, a total floor
area of approximately 5.33 m2 is obtained in the following way:




Table 6.3: List of stores selected as main collection centres (MCCs)

    Zone        District      Store name        Total floor area  Quantity of OPs
                                                              2
                                                 available (m ) currently stored (kg)
Northern      Arusha   TPRI-Store No.01                      199               29,074
Southern               Highland Mbarali
Highlands     Mbarali  Estate                                 450                  46,278
              Morogoro Morogoro NHC-
Central       Urban    MOFACU                                 120                  22,488
Western       Nzega    Nzega                                  192                     606
Coastal       Rufiji   CORECU Kibiti                          800                     480
              Unguja   Mahonda Sugar
Zanzibar      North    Factory                                 50                   2,027

Given that the Mahonda MCC has a total floor area of 50 m2, the available area is
sufficient for storing 2.5 tons of OPs, which require about 5.33 m2 of floor area. Similar
calculations for the other MCCs can be done in a similar manner.

Information on OP storage capacities of the MCCs is given in Table 6.3 above. Other
relevant information needed to determine quantities of Ops to be moved to MCCs is
available in the FAO EMTK Volume 2.

Because during the CESA study it was not possible to carry out detailed groundwater
investigations in the vicinity of potential MCCs, the criterion on groundwater protection
was not used in the selection of the MCCs. Therefore, it is imperative that site specific
groundwater protection measures be taken at all MCCs where groundwater quality is
likely to be compromised by the presence of the MCCs. The establishment of the need for
such groundwater protection should be determined before all the other measures are
implemented.




                                                                                      138
6.6     Safeguarding impacts

6.6.1 Impacts during Disposal Operation

A number of environmental and social impacts are likely to occur during safeguarding,
transportation and final disposal of the obsolete pesticides. The impacts for main activity
with corresponding mitigation measures are summarized in Table 6.4a and 6.4b.

Table 6.4a: Impacts during safeguarding, transportation and disposal
  Activity                      Main impact
  Verification                  Health of operators due to contact with pesticides;
                                Public health
  Repackaging                   Health of operators due to contact with pesticides
                                Air pollution due to a fire
                                Contamination of soil and groundwater due to spill
                                Air contamination due to release into air
  Road transportation to        Soil and water contamination due resulting from
  MCC                           accidental spill
  Storage at MCC                Soil and water pollution due to spillage
                                Air pollutin due to a fire
  Transportation to Dar es      Soil, and groundwater contamination due to spill
  Salaam
  Transportation by Sea         Marine pollution due to sinking of containers or ships
  Disposal                      Air, water and soil pollution




                                                                                         139
Table 6.4b: Impacts and related mitigation measures during safeguarding, transportation and disposal

 Activity        Impacts                   Preventive Measure                                          Mitigation
                                               Before entering the store for verification, the              There is a first aid kit in the vehicle.
                                               International contractor or FM should review the 2009        The verification team has identified the nearest
                                               inventory and, from outside, review the actual               hospital or clinic and notified them of their
                                               condition of the interior of the store. Then                 activities;
 Verification    Health operators due to       undertake a Task Based Risk Assessment to                    Project staff members have medical checks every
                 contact with pesticides       determine the appropriate Personal Protective                6 months, including blood tests to determine if
                                               Equipment required in undertaking the verification.          there are adverse impacts from working with
                                                                                                            pesticides.      Where impacts are found, the
                                                                                                            operators are assigned to activities that do not
                                                                                                            involve contact with pesticides.
                 Public health                  The public are informed about the verification
                                                activity and instructed to stay away from the store.
 Repackaging     Health of operators due        The International contractor or FM undertakes a Task        Regular medical checks;
                 to contact with                Based Risk Assessment of the hazards of materials           Emergency shower set up at the site.
                 pesticides                     that will be repackaged and the nature of the               Full-time presence of project nurse
                                                repackaging activity. This determines the type of           The nearest hospital or clinic has been identified
                                                Personal Protective Equipment required                      and notified about the project team’s activities in
                                                The specification of repackaging equipment, such            each given area, zone or locations
                                                as drum pumps, has been selected such that it
                                                minimizes the necessity for contact with pesticides.
                                                The site is zoned off with hazard tape or fencing
                                                and warning signs.
                                                Doors and windows of the store are covered to
                                                prevent the egress of dust and vapour.
                 Air pollution due to a         All electrical and other equipment used inside the          The fire service is notified about the activities
                 fire                           store is flameproof;                                        taking place at the site so they are in a state of
                                                Where possible flammable materials are excluded             preparedness.
                                                from the store;                                             Fire extinguishing equipment is part of the
                                                Incompatible materials are not mixed together.              emergency response kit carried by the team.
                                                They are either completely separated or segregated          Appropriate and recommended substances are
                                                and where necessary adequate fire and physical              made available for extinguishing given chemicals
                                                barriers are erected between dangerous chemicals            in case of fire outbreaks.
                                                The areas where liquids are repacked are protected          Where spills occur, the team carries emergency




                                                                                                                                                                  140
Activity         Impacts                   Preventive Measure                                          Mitigation
                                               with plastic and plywood sheeting;                           spill kits which include absorbent materials and
                                               Pumping equipment is controllable directly by the            sand snakes to stop spills from spreading.
Repackaging      Soil   and/or     water       operators filling and drum;
                 contamination resulting       The new drums are specified to UN standards for
                 from accidental spill         the materials to be pumped into them.
                                               The floors are cleaned by sweeping and/or
                                               vacuuming.
                 Air pollution due to          The door ways and windows are covered with                   To prevent or minimize free release of vapours or
                 release of harmful            plastic sheeting to keep the dust and fumes within           highly volatile solvents during hot summer
                 vapours                       the store ensuring adequate ventilation away from            months, stores in areas that experience high
                                               the public to avoid accidental explosion;                    summer temperatures should be provided with
                                               Dust suppression techniques such as sprinkling               additional insulating roofs above the existing
                                               with water are used.                                         roofs. The additional insulating roofs will screen
                                                                                                            off the heat from the sun, allow the free flow of
                                                                                                            coll air above and around the store and
                                                                                                            consequently keep temperatures in stores low. The
                                                                                                            insulating roofs can be in the form of grass
                                                                                                            thatched roofs supported on concrete or steel
                                                                                                            poles appropriately erected along the store walls.
                                                The drums are specified for international transport;        The escort vehicles carry emergency spill kits in
                                                Drums to be repackaged and consolidated at the              the event of an accident.
                                                MCC are placed in salvage over-drums;                       Vehicles are provided with warning signs
                                                Drums that require repackaging but are leaking and
Transportation   Soil and/or water              thus likely to cause contamination during transport
by road to MCC   contamination resulting        should be repacked at their original store;
                 from accidental spill          The vehicles should be lined with a spill tray to
                                                catch any leaks;
                                                The transport route has been assessed and selected
                                                as the safest and most direct;
                                                The maximum speed of the vehicles is set to
                                                60 km/hr.
                 Soil and/or water              The MCC stores have been selected on the basis of           Spill kits are made available at MCCs.
                 contamination resulting        their specification which includes impervious floors
                 from accidental spill          and their proximity to all necessary health and
                                                safety facilities;




                                                                                                                                                                 141
Activity         Impacts                    Preventive Measure                                           Mitigation
Storage at MCC   Air pollution due to a         The storage of drums within an MCC is segregated              The fire service should develop an evacuation
                 fire                           according the types and hazards of materials –                plan for the area around the MCC.
                                                Incompatible materials should be segregated;                  The store keeper maintains records of the
                                                Electrical wiring should be intrinsically safe.               positions and contents of each drum within the
                                                                                                              store;
                                                                                                              Adequate number of fire extinguishers should be
                                                                                                              available at the MCC.
Transportation   Soil and/or water              The shipping containers for drums of liquid are               The convoy of containers is escorted by vehicles
to the port of   contamination resulting        lined with a steel spill tray to contain any leaks;           with emergency response spill equipment.
shipping (Dar    from accidental spill          Each containers is stowed with compatible
es Salaam)                                      materials;
                                                Storage of materials within the shipping containers
                                                strictly conforms to IMDG Code.
Transportation   Marine pollution due to        The storage of drums within the container is such             Marine salvage would be required to rescue the
by Sea           sinking of containers or       that the materials should not leak.                           containers.
                 whole ships
                                                The incineration facilities are equipped with state of        Facilities have action and evacuation plans to
Disposal         Air, water, and soil           the art pollution abatement technology;                       conform to the EU Seveso directive
                 pollution due to release       The emissions are analysed to conform that they
                 of harmful vapours             meet specification;
                                                The facilities have fail-safe emergency shutdown
                                                procedures to stop waste burning if a serious failure
                                                in the process occurs.




                                                                                                                                                                 142
6.7    Safeguarding Management Aspects

The following activities should be considered when performing the safeguarding of the
OP.

Organisation

    Management
The overall management of the safeguarding operation shall rest with the PMU. The
PMU will be responsible for all liaisons with all relevant stakeholders who are not part of
the safeguarding team. The Project Coordinator will liaise with the Director General of
NEMC to ensure all national legal obligations are met.

    Technical support and supervision
The national safeguarding team shall be supported by the Technical Advisor for Disposal
(TAD). The TAD shall work with the national staff to develop the necessary resource
plan and work plan to ensure safe implementation of the project. Instructions on how to
proceed shall be developed based on FAO procedures and training modules for the
environmentally sound management of obsolete pesticides. The TA will work with the
Safeguarding Team to develop the necessary managerial and supervisory capacity within
the national team to ensure safe implementation of the safeguarding project.

    Site Supervision
The day-to-day supervision of the safeguarding activities shall be undertaken by the
leader of the safeguarding team under the supervision of the Project Manager and the
TAD.

The safeguarding team leader shall be responsible for establishing safe working area
(zones) as described below the maintenance of safe working practices through on-the-
spot supervision of the safeguarding team.

Implementation

The safeguarding activities shall be conducted by an experienced disposal service
contractor in close collaboration with a team of staff from institutions that were
previously involved in the inventory and safeguarding. Further training related to entry
and exit to the working area, zoning of the work place, use of equipment and general
safety procedures shall be conducted before the work commence. During the operations a
nurse with necessary first aid material shall be on site.

The staff members shall be briefed daily on the activities to be completed and allocated
roles and responsibilities by the Safeguarding team leader.




                                                                                       143
Description of work procedures shall be prepared before commencing the safeguarding
operations in order to have a complete picture of what is required during the works.
These shall as a minimum include the following:
   Establishment of site
   Zoning of site
   Repackaging of solid pesticides into new drums
   Pumping of liquid pesticides into new drums
   Sampling of unknown pesticides.
   Labeling and registration
   Store decontamination.

All containers which are used for the safeguarding shall be UN approved. Repackaging
for safeguarding or consolidation for eventual transport shall be done according to the
standard operating procedures specified in the FAO Environmental Management Tool Kit
(EMTK Vol II Tool F).

    Zoning of Site
In order to ensure the safety of workers during the safeguarding operation a procedure for
dividing the area into zones shall be established.

As a minimum the area shall be divided into 3 zones as described below.

Zone 1: Commonly termed the “Hot? or “Dirty? zone

   Characterised by close proximity to hazardous materials;
   Typically high risk of exposure when working;
   Activities focus on repackaging of waste into new containers;
   Control measures for decontamination of workers;
   High levels of supervision and control;
   Close monitoring of workers and work methods based on operating procedures;
   High levels of PPE and environmental protection.

Zone 2: Commonly termed the “Intermediate? or “Buffer? zone

   Lower risk of exposure when working;
   Typically focus on interim storage of repackaged containers;
   May include removal of residual contamination on outside of containers;
   Labelling of new containers;
   Lower levels of PPE and environmental protection.

Zone 3: Commonly termed the “Clean? zone

   No or minimal risk of exposure;
   Typically focus on storage of materials pending removal from site;
   PPE related to handling of new, clean packages;


                                                                                      144
   Use of drum handling equipment to move items to reduce risk.

In connection with the safeguarding activities the following measures shall be taken:
    All management and supervisory staff plus all labourers shall have complete pre and
    post medical inspection including blood analysis. This action provides a documented
    record of the health of all project staff both before and after the implementation of
    safeguarding activities. The medical check also provide a method of assessing the
    application of safe working methods during implementation including the correct use
    of personal protective equipment (PPE) and supervision of labourers by competent
    staff.
    A medical inspection should be carried out on a monthly basis from the beginning of
    the safeguarding
    The site shall be operation.established in such a way that it provides workers’
    facilities for showering, taking breaks and storing their non working clothes.

Alternatively, operation with a Workers’ Decontamination Enclosure System and Waste
and Equipment Decontamination Enclosure System can be adopted. In this option, the
first enclosure will be for worker entry into and exit from the work area whereas the
second enclosure is for decontamination of wastes (containers) and equipment taken out
of the work area.


Management of stores

Management of the stores is important to maintain safe storage of the OP. It shall involve
security, routine inspections, maintenance of the building and the containers.

It is recommended that all stores are equipped with security guards and that a local
representative is appointed as store keeper. The store keeper shall be given the obligation
to report to PMU on a monthly basis regarding the condition and situation at the store.
The estimated manpower cost for the six MCCs is US$ 72,000.

Communications

It is recommended that the purpose and activities related to the safeguarding operations is
communicated to the communities and organizations around the stores to create
awareness on the risks and hazards posed by the stored OP. The PMU shall develop a
communications package to brief the town administration and the surrounding
community of the ongoing operations.

The package should include details such as:
       Description of the work;
       instructions to keep away from the site throughout the period of the work;
       a map showing the area of the work, and the area of restricted access;
       safety instructions of what to do in an emergency (such as a fire at the site)
       emergency contact details of the PMU.


                                                                                        145
Routine and emergency telecommunications will normally be undertaken by mobile
phone. The PMU, TAD and the Safeguarding team leader shall all have mobile phones. A
satellite phone has also to be available during the safeguarding activities in case of
emergency where there is no available mobile network.

Transport

All movement of hazardous waste between the stores will be coordinated and supervised
by the PMU. Specific transport rules shall be applied following ADR rules including:

       Safety Equipment in vehicles
       Driver Training
       Transport documentation including information on hazards and emergency
       actions
       Vehicle Inspections
       Driver Briefing
       Escort vehicle with response equipment
       Speed limit 40 kph on urban routes
       Planned route based on risk assessment

It is noteworthy that, under ideal condition where potential transport routes differ only in
terms of distance, the selection of transport routes could make use of linear programming
with a view to optimising the selection. The use of linear programming, which is
theoretically sound, is practically untenable in the context of this project mainly because
the potential transport routes need to consider security (safety), quality and reliability of
the roads, likelihood of resistance by communities that live along the routes to their use
for OP transportation, availability and reliability of supporting services, and familiarity
with the routes based on available information.

The selection of appropriate routes which do not pass through highly sensitive areas is a
factor which shall be considered when moving the OP. However with the limited number
of roads in the countryside the options are limited.

Disposal

Local Disposal

Disposal operations will involve different types of wastes which may require different
types of treatment to render them harmless. Such wastes include obsolete pesticides,
contaminated soils, old containers, and old equipment and contaminated building
materials. As discussed in Section 4.5, currently, Tanzania does not have a hazardous
waste disposal facility suitable for obsolete pesticides in compliance with the required
emissions standards as defined by European Union and US EPA legislation. Under such
conditions, the only alternative for the disposal of obsolete pesticides and associated



                                                                                         146
waste is to export and dispose of them at a licensed facility overseas in compliance with
the requirements of the Basel and Stockholm Conventions.

International Disposal

Inclusions of international disposal companies in OP disposal operations have been
applied in a number of cases in Africa and Eastern Europe. In Tanzania, NEMC have
such experience from previous disposal operations.

There are a number of mainly European companies who have taken on the task of
collecting, transporting and disposal of OP at dedicated high temperature facilities in
compliance with international regulations. It is considered that all potential companies
provide a safe disposal option.

Environmental and social management activities, their impacts as well as their preventive
and mitigations measures, institutional responsibilities, implementation schedules, and
pertinent cost estimates are outlined in Table 6.5.




                                                                                     147
           Table 6.5:       Environmental and Social Management Plan

Activity           Impact                   Preventive Measure                  Mitigation                Institutional responsibilities   Duration after     Cost
                                                                                Measures                  (including enforcement           contract signing   estimates
                                                                                                          &coordination)                   (months)           (US$)
Repackaging of     Health of operators        Implimentation of EMP and            Regular medical        PMU,                             Four months        600,000
OPs and            due to contact with        health and safety emergency          checks;                DMD,
packaging of       pesticides                 plan as elaborated in EMTK           Emergency              NEMC,
contaminated                                  Vol. II                              shower set up at       Local health facilities,
containers and                                The FM undertakes a Task             the site.              Ministerial Advisory Board of
OP                                            Based Risk Assessment of the         Full-time              the Government Chemist
contaminated                                  hazards of materials that will       presence of            Laboratory Agency (MAB-
cleaning wastes                               be repackaged and the nature         project nurse          GCLA), TPRI
                                              of the repackaging activity.         where there is no      NEMC trained staff and local
Health and                                    This determines the type of          hospital nearby        operators for repackaging at
safety                                        Personal Protective Equipment        The nearest            small and low risk stores, and
Environmental                                 required                             hospital or clinic     international contractors for
protection                                    The specification of                 has been               repackaging at medium and
Equipment                                     repackaging equipment, such          identified and         high risk stores and at MCCs.
Public                                        as drum pumps, has been              notified about the
consultation                                  selected such that it minimizes      project team’s
Management                                    the necessity for contact with       activities in each
and planning                                  pesticides.                          given area, zone
Sustainability                                The site is zoned off with           or location
Budget planning                               hazard tape or fencing and           Provide
                                              warning signs.                       decontamination
                                              Doors and windows of the             enclosures
                                              store are covered to prevent
                                              the egress of dust and vapour.

                   Air pollution due to a     All electrical and other             The fire service is    PMU,
                   fire                       equipment used inside the            notified about the     NEMC,
                                              store is flameproof;                 activities taking      Fire Department,
                                              Where possible flammable             place at the site so   DMD,
                                              materials are excluded from          they are in a state    MAB-GCLA
                                              the store;                           of preparedness.       International contractor
                                              Incompatible materials are not       Fire extinguishing
                                              mixed together. They are             equipment is part
                                              either completely separated or       of the emergency




                                                                                                                                                                          148
Activity          Impact                 Preventive Measure                  Mitigation                 Institutional responsibilities   Duration after     Cost
                                                                             Measures                   (including enforcement           contract signing   estimates
                                                                                                        &coordination)                   (months)           (US$)
                                           segregated and where                  response kit
                                           necessary adequate fire and           carried by the
                                           physical barriers are erected         team.
                                           between dangerous chemicals           Appropriate and
                                                                                 recommended
                                                                                 substances are
                                                                                 made available
                                                                                 for extinguishing
                                                                                 fire in case of fire
                                                                                 outbreaks
                  Soil and/or water       All spillage cases should be       Where spills occur,        PMU,
                  contamination           handled according to SOPs          the team carries           NEMC,
                  resulting from          described in EMTK Vol. II          emergency spill kits       DMD,
                  accidental spill        Tool E;                            which include              MAB-GCLA
                                          Pumping equipment is               absorbent materials        International contractor
                                          controllable directly by the       and sand snakes to
                                          operators filling and drum;        stop spills from
                                          The new drums are UN               spreading.
                                          approved for the materials to be
                                          pumped into them.
                                          The floors are cleaned by
                                          sweeping and/or vacuuming.
                  Air pollution due to    The door ways and windows                                     International contractor
                  release of harmful      are covered with plastic
                  vapours                 sheeting to keep the dust and
                                          fumes within the store ensuring
                                          adequate ventilation away from
                                          the public to avoid accidental
                                          explosion;
                                          Dust suppression techniques are
                                          used.
Transportation    Soil and/or water       The drums are specified for           The escort              PMU,                             Three months       300,000
of OPs,           contamination           interactional transport;              vehicles carry          NEMC,
contaminated      resulting from          Drums to be repackaged and            emergency spill         DMD,
containers, and   accidental spill        consolidated at the MCC are           kits in the event of    PMU for low risk stores to
OP                                        placed in salvage over-drums;         an accident.            MCC
contaminated                              The vehicles should be lined                                  International contractor for
cleaning waste                                                                                          high and medium risk stores;




                                                                                                                                                                        149
Activity         Impact                   Preventive Measure                   Mitigation               Institutional responsibilities   Duration after     Cost
                                                                               Measures                 (including enforcement           contract signing   estimates
                                                                                                        &coordination)                   (months)           (US$)
by road to MCC                               with a spill tray to catch any                             Responsible for repackaging
                                             leaks;                                                     the OP at MCCs and
                                             The transport route has been                               subsequent shipping for
                                             assessed and selected as the                               disposal,
                                             safest and most direct;                                    Traffic police,
                                             The maximum speed of the                                   MAB-GCLA
                                             vehicles is set to 60km/hr.
Storage at MCC   Soil and/or water        The MCC stores have been             Spill kits are made      PMU,                             Four months        220,000
                 contamination            selected on the basis of their       available at MCCs.       NEMC,
                 resulting from           specification which includes                                  DMD,
                 accidental spill         impervious floors and their                                   International contractor who
                                          proximity to all necessary safety                             will also be responsible for
                                          outlets                                                       repackaging the OP at MCCs
                                                                                                        and subsequent shipping for
                                                                                                        disposal,
                                                                                                        MAB-GCLA
                 Air pollution due to a     The storage of drums within an        The fire service      PMU,
                 fire                       MCC is segregated according           should develop an     NEMC,
                                            to the types and hazards of           evacuation plan       DMD,
                                            materials – Incompatible              for the area around   MAB-GCLA,
                                            materials should be segregated;       the MCC.              Fire department
                                            Electrical wiring should be           The store keeper
                                            intrinsically safe.                   maintains records
                                                                                  of the positions
                                                                                  and contents of
                                                                                  each drum within
                                                                                  the store;
                                                                                  Adequate number
                                                                                  of fire
                                                                                  extinguishers
                                                                                  should be
                                                                                  available at the
                                                                                  MCC.
Transportation   Soil and/or water          The shipping containers for        The convoy of            PMU,                             One month          400,000
to Dar es        contamination              drums of liquid are lined with a   containers is escorted   NEMC,
Salaam           resulting from             steel spill tray to contain any    by vehicles with         DMD,
                 accidental spill           leaks;                             emergency response       Police department,
                                            Each container is stowed with      spill equipment          International contractor,




                                                                                                                                                                        150
Activity            Impact                 Preventive Measure                  Mitigation               Institutional responsibilities   Duration after     Cost
                                                                               Measures                 (including enforcement           contract signing   estimates
                                                                                                        &coordination)                   (months)           (US$)
                                             compatible materials;                                      Traffic police,
                                             Stowage of materials within the                            MAB-GCLA
                                             shipping containers strictly
                                             conforms to IMDG Code.
Transportation      Containers or whole    The stowage of drums within the     Marine salvage           PMU, DMD,                        Two months         1,050,000
by Sea              ship sinks             container is such that the          would be required to     Police department,
                                           materials should not leak.          rescue the containers.   International contractor,
                                                                                                        Navy, Ministry of
                                                                                                        Infrastructure Development,
                                                                                                        Tanzania Harbours Authority,
                                                                                                        MAB-GCLA
                                             The incineration facilities are   Facilities have action   PMU, NEMC                        One month          1,050,000
                                             equipped with state of the art    and evacuation plans     Police department, DMD,
Disposal of OPs,    Air pollution due to     pollution abatement               to conform to the        international contractor,
contaminated        release of harmful       technology;                       EMTK Guidelines          Host country enforcement
OP containers       vapours                  The emissions are analysed to                              institutions
and                                          conform that they meet
contaminated                                 specification;
cleaning wastes                              The facilities have fail-safe
                                             emergency shutdown
                                             procedures to stop waste
                                             burning if a serious failure in
                                             the process occurs.
           NOTES:
           1) Other activities that will need to be undertaken at the MCC such as checking labels, placing new labels on OP containers, and cleaning
              containers which are not directly stated in Table will be implemented in accordance with EMTK Vol. II.
           2) Cleanliness of the MCCs will be ensured so that clean OP containers transported from other stores are not recontaminated at the MCCs.
           3) Wastes generated at the stores and MCCs, including store cleaning wastes/rags, disposable PPE, and used plastic and other covering materials
              will be treated as associated waste.




                                                                                                                                                                        151
As a general observation in connection with Table 6.5, all personnel entering the OP
management work areas must have gone through health and safety training, and must
have read the material safety data sheets (MSDS) for the pesticides and learned the
related hazards, the preventive measures, and what to do in case of exposure to the
pesticides. All this is in accordance with EMTK Vol. II.

After safeguarding and removal of OPs, all the OP stores will need to be cleaned and/or
decontaminated as soon as their use comes to an end. In the same vein, vehicles and
equipment used in safeguarding and transportation activities that will remain in the
country should be decontaminated. The MCCs will be cleaned up and decontaminated
using standard practices. Sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl), which is the oxidizing agent of
choice during clean up operations, can be used. MCCs are relatively clean, and as such
can be put to many different uses after clean up and decontamination. It is anticipated that
the cleaned and decontaminated MCCs will be used for pesticide storage.

It is important to note that the OP stores earmarked as MCCs, whose number has already
been determined and is fixed, were evaluated by a consultant with a view to determining
the extent of upgrading required. Except for the one at ARI Tumbi, most stores
containing OPs are in good condition.

The importance of the MCCs cannot be overemphasized. For example, small quantities of
obsolete pesticides from remote sites need to be moved to centralized location for ease of
repackaging into shipping containers in trucks that would otherwise not be able to reach
those stores. On the other hand, large stocks in single stores will be moved directly to the
port of exit by the disposal service contractors.


6.8    Adopted Implementation Strategy

Taking into account all the issues discussed in the preceding subsections of this section
and building up on Chapters Four and Five, the safeguarding, transportation, and final
disposal of the OP will have to encompass a number of features that need to be clearly
spelled out. On the whole, as noted earlier, there will be six (6) main collection centres
(MCCs) to which OP stocks collected from the rest of the OP stores will be transferred.
From the MCCs all stored OP stocks will be hauled to the port to wait for ocean
freighting to their final disposal destination outside the country.

However, since some OP stores are located very close to the Dar es Salaam port, it makes
sense to transport the OP stocks from these stores straight to the port. Additionally, since
some OP stores have OP stocks that are large enough to fill one or more shipping
containers, it also makes sense to transport the OP stocks from these stores straight to the
port as well. Table 6.6a presents information on the Coastal Zone stores whose OP stocks
will be hauled directly to the DSM port. Table 6.6b presents similar information for the
stores in other parts of the Coastal Zone from which OP stocks cannot be taken directly
the the Dar es Salaam port for shipping. Tables 6.6c – 6.6g presents the information on
the stores located in the other zones.


                                                                                        152
Table 6.6a: Coastal Zone stores from which OP will be hauled directly to the DSM port
 S/N Site                             Amount Level of Distance to Actor
                                      (kg)      risk         the port
                                                             (km)
 1      Vikuge                         250,000 High          60             Contractor
 2      TCB Kurasini                    23,810 Medium Close to              Contractor
                                                             port
 3      Bagamoyo                            800 Medium 70                   Contractor
 4      Vingunguti PHS                  20,000 Medium 15                    Contractor
 5      Kimara Baruti-1                     688 Medium 15                   Contractor
 6      Kimara Baruti-2                   2,075 Medium 15                   Contractor
        Total                          297,373

Table 6.6b: Coastal Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the Kibiti
CORECU main collection centre
 S/N Site                             Amount Level of Distance to Actor
                                      (kg)       risk        the MCC
                                                             (km)
 1      Lindi                             1,320 Low          282            PMU
 2      Utete former Agriculture         18,750 High         57             Contractor
        Store
 3      Kibaha DALDO store                  164 Low          175            PMU
 4      Tandahimba District Council         720 Low          453            PMU
 5      Daldo Liwale                       1273 Low          348            PMU
 6      RAS store Mtwara                   1460 Low          357            PMU
 7      Kilimani West                     1,401 Low          54             PMU
 8      Mchukwi Kibiti                      480 Low          25             PMU
 9      TALDO office Lindi                  318 Low          282            PMU
 10     Ruaruke Village                    1200 Low          30             PMU
 11     MRATIF Mtwara                       580 Low          357            PMU
 12     DALDO Newala                        230 Low          516            PMU
 13     Masimbo Sisal estate 1              572 Low          20             PMU
 14     DED Kilwa                           471 Low          147            PMU
 15     DALDO Nachingwea                    680 Low          478            PMU
 16     Kibiti Naliendele                  8060 Low          1              PMU
 17     Utete Boma                           57 Low          57             PMU
        Total                            37,736

Table 6.6c: Central Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the Morogoro main
collection centre (200 km to Dar es Salaam port)
 S/N Store                              Amount Level of Distance to Actor
                                        (kg)      risk        the MCC
 1       DALDO Mahenge-1                       38 Low         240          Contractor
 2       DALDO Mahenge-2                     3525 Low         240          Contractor


                                                                                    153
 3     DALDO Mahenge-3                    4688   Low        240          Contractor
 4     Mtibwa Sugar Estate 1            30,000   Low        125          Contractor
 5     Morogoro F Coop Union 1          19,288   High       -            Contractor
 6     Morogoro F coop Union 2            3200   High       -            Contractor
 7     DALDO office Kilosa                 373   Low        134          PMU
 8     DED Ifakara                         160   Low        171          PMU
 9     DALDO Iramba                        360   Low        600          PMU
 10    MATI Ilonga                          30   Low        120          PMU
 11    Bonye Village (Matombo)              25   Low        107          PMU
 12    DALDO Store Dodoma                  100   Low        260          PMU
 13    Katin Ifakara                       158   Low        171          PMU
 14    Kilombero Sugar Co 1             30,000   Medium     140          Contractor
 15    ARI Ilonga                           30   Low        120          PMU
 16    DALDO Singida Rural                 244   Low        610          PMU
 17    Dodoma Agro Tech                     82   Low        155          PMU
       Total                            92,301

Table 6.6d: Northern Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the TPRI Arusha
main collection Centre (685 km to Dar es Salaam port)
 S/N Store                              Amount Level of Distance to Actor
                                        (kg)     risk        the MCC
 1      TPRI 1,2,3,4,5                   29,074 High                       Contractor
 2      Hotculture Tengeru                    72 Low         18            PMU
 3      DALDO Rombo                          390 Low         186           PMU
 4      DALDO Hanang                         816 Low         324           PMU
 5      Arusha Seed Farm                     970 Medium 16                 Contractor
 6      DALDO Babati rural                   273 Low         174           PMU
 7      TALDO Babati                         125 Low         174           PMU
 8      DALDO Pangani                         15 Low         379           PMU
 9      KATC Moshi                         4220 Low          98            Contractor
 10     TBA Kilimo                       16,000 Low          80            Contractor
 11     Regional Agricultural Advisor      1400 Medium 417                 Contractor
        Tanga
 12     Mulbadaw Farm 1                      115 Low         374           PMU
 13     DED Kiteto                           356 Low         375           PMU
 14     DED Mwanga                           200 Low         193           PMU
 15     King’ori village                       2 Low         54            PMU
 16     Imboru Agrovet Mbulu                  18 Low         254           PMU
 17     Tengeru Flowers                       32 Low         20            PMU
 18     Kitivo Irrigation scheme              31 Low         285           PMU
 19     DALDO Mbulu                          457 Low         254           PMU
 20    TFA Tanga                          1009   Low        417           PMU
 21    TFA Moshi                            91   Low        80            PMU
 22    Muafaka Agrovet Tanga                71   Low        417           PMU
 23    DALDO Moshi                           6   Low        80            PMU


                                                                                  154
 24     Tacri Lyamungu                     905   Medium      85           Contractor
 25     Kifaru Estate                       74   Low         92           PMU
 26     Namwai Kilimanjaro                 125   Low         80           PMU
 27     Manyara estate Arusha              120   Low         10           PMU
 28     TFA Arusha                          10   Low         10           PMU
 29     Tanzania Flowers Arusha            852   Medium      12           Contractor
 30     Burka Coffee Estate Arusha 2      2000   Medium      11           Contractor
 31     Mringa Coffee Arusha               944   Low         5            PMU
 32     Burka Coffee Estate                175   Low         11           PMU
        Total                           60,948

Table 6.6e: Western Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the Nzega main
collection centre (900 km to Dar es Salaam port)
 S/N Store                              Amount Level of Distance           Actor
                                        (kg)      risk       to the
                                                             MCC
 1       Ari Tumbi (safeguarded)           30000 High        156           Contractor
 2       Kigoma DALDO                          30 Low        760           PMU
 3       Veterinary store kagera             3854 Low        490           PMU
 4       Uyui Daldo                            31 Low        140           PMU
 5       Mara Cooperative Union              2220 Medium 327               Contractor
 6       ARI Tumbi                             31 Low        156           PMU
 7       DALDO Sikonge                        527 Low        210           PMU
 8       DALDO Kahama                         172 Low        105           PMU
 9       RAS Mara                             101 Low        327           PMU
 10      DALDO Geita                          320 Low        358           PMU
 11      Biharamulo Cooperative               350 Low        333           PMU
         Union
 12      DED Serengeti                        136 Low        515           PMU
 13      DALDO Kasulu                          63 Low        535           PMU
 14      DALDO Sengerema                      210 Low        318           PMU
 15      Green Farm Biharamulo                 11 Low        333           PMU
 16      Mwesigwa Agrovet Mwanza                4 Low        243           PMU
 17      Kolping Society Kagera               669 Medium 504               Contractor
 18      World Vision Nzega                    56 Low        21            PMU
 19      DALDO Bukoba Rural                   456 Low        504           Contractor
 20      DALDO Nzega                           56 Low        20            PMU
 21      Kaltike Veterinary                     9 Low        243           PMU
 22      Urambo Seed Farm                    2901 Medium 226               Contractor
 23      DED Magu                             510 Low        253           Contractor
 24      DED Bukombe                           27 Low        205           PMU
 25      Buharahara farm Geita                138 Low        350           PMU
 26      Cotton board Bunda                    21 Low        353           PMU
 27      Murkpar Mwanza                        26 Low        243           PMU
 28      Kipusa Agrovet                         8 Low        243           PMU


                                                                                   155
 S/N   Store                          Amount     Level of    Distance     Actor
                                      (kg)       risk        to the
                                                             MCC
 29    DED Shinyanga                       250   Low         60           PMU
 30    SPC Ginning Mara                   2514   Low         320          PMU
 31    PHS Tabora                          145   Low         140          PMU
 32    TLTC Urambo                        2734   Low         220          PMU
 33    Resolute Mining Nzega               606   Low         30           PMU
 34    RIDEP Shinyanga                     804   Low         60           PMU
       Total                             49990

Table 6.6f: Southern Highlands Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the
Mbarali Estate main collection centre (770 km to Dar es Salaam port)
 S/N Store                              Amount Level of Distance to Actor
                                        (kg)       risk       the MCC
 1      Highland Mbarali Estate            46,278 High                     Contractor
 2      Seatondole Research Iringa             244 Low        220          PMU
 3      DALDO Njombe                            94 Low        160          PMU
 4      ATTT Mpanda                            705 Low        733          PMU
 5      Uyole Research Farm                 21264 High        140          Contractor
 6      DALDO Makete                           308 Low        348          PMU
 7      DALDO Tunduru                       10094 Medium 695               PMU
 8      Ari Uyole 1                             62 Low        160          PMU
 9      DALDO Mbozi                            200 Low        225          PMU
 10     Mufindi Tea Company                     81 Low        200          PMU
 11     ARI Uyole 2                            237 Low        140          PMU
 12     DALDO Songea                            74 Low        425          PMU
 13     RUCU Tukuyu                             56 Low        202          PMU
 14     DALDO Iringa                            28 Low        250          PMU
 15     Kiuma Tunduru                          114 Low        685          PMU
 16     TLTC Iringa                          3590 Medium 250               Contractor
 17     TFA Iringa                             234 Low        250          Contractor
 18     TANWAT Njombe                          290 Low        160          PMU
 19     PHS Mbeya                               74 Low        150          PMU
 20     DED Mlangali                            73 Low        250          PMU
 21     DED Mbinga                             111 Low        535          PMU
 22     Unilever Tea Mufindi                 1836 Low         207          PMU
 23     TFA Mafinga                              3 Low        180          PMU
 24     DALDO Itumba                          37.5 Low        309          Contractor
        Total                            86,087.5




                                                                                   156
Table 6.6g: Zanzibar Zone stores from which OP will be transferred to the Mahonda
Sugar Factory main collection centre (16 km to Zanzibar Port)
 S/N    Store                          Amount Level of Distance            Actor
                                       (kg)       risk        to the
                                                              MCC
 1      Mahonda 1                          2,027 Medium                    Contractor
 2      Mahonda 2                            137 Medium                    Contractor
 3      PPD                                  296 Low                       PMU
 4      Matangatuani Pemba                    12 Low                       PMU
 5      PPD Machomane                         12 Low                       PMU
 6      PPD Kibokwa                           15 Low                       PMU
 7      Bambi Agricultural Centre              9 Low                       PMU
        Total                              2,508

Taking into consideration the chemical nature and current conditions of the OP stocks
and based on findings from Chapter Four, it is apparent that the safeguarding,
transportation, and final disposal of the OP stocks will need to involve several public and
private authorities and entities. Of these the most important are the PMU together with its
teams, international contractors, and local contractors.

The distribution of the roles between the PMU together with its working teams on the one
hand and the disposal service contractor on the other regarding various OP safeguarding
and transportation obligations will be guided by the relationship schematically illustrated
in Figure 6.1.

It is apparent from Figure 6.1 that the PMU together with its working teams are largely
responsible for small OP stocks and even with these the PMU’s responsibility stops at
transportation of the OP to the MCCs. The disposal service contractor is responsible for
handling large OP stocks right from their original stores through the MCC to the final
destination.

The decision to apportion the responsibilities between the PMU and the disposal service
contractor regarding the safeguarding, transportation, and disposal of the OP has
considered the technical competence and manpower capacity of the PMU as well as
logistical needs of this kind of undertaking.




                                                                                       157
    Large                                           Small
    stocks                                          stocks
                        Transfer of
                        ownership
                        from PMU to             Pre-packing for            Clean up by
  Repacking by          Contractor              road transport             PMU
  contractor


                                                Transport to
  Clean up by
                                                MCC by PMU
  contractor                 Transfer of
                             ownership
                             from PMU to
                             Contractor
   Filling shipping                             Repacking by
   containers by                                Contractor
   contractor

                                               Clean up of MCC
                                               by Contractor



                                               Filling shipping
                                               containers by
                                               Contractor




                      Road transport to DSM                  Maritime transport to
                      port by Contractor                     final destination by
                                                             Contractor


Figure 6.1: Schematic illustration of roles of PMU and the Disposal Service Contractor
            with regard to safeguarding, and final disposal of OP stocks




                                                                                     158
                                CHAPTER SEVEN

7.0 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES

7.1    Pesticide Safeguarding Alternatives

Safeguarding is required for free standing obsolete pesticide stocks and its associated
wastes; namely, contaminated empty containers, contaminated equipment and pesticide
contaminated soil including buried pesticides three alternatives were considered and
analysed. The alternatives are: i) no safeguarding action, ii) safeguarding at the current
location of each store, and iii) use of collection centres to safeguard pesticides moved
from the currently dispersed individual stores to main collection centres (MCCs). Results
of the Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT) analysis is
summarised in Table 7.1.

Table 7.1: SWOT analysis of alternatives for safeguarding obsolete pesticides

 Alternative      Strengths          Weaknesses            Opportunities      Threats
 No                Safeguarding       Existing                                 Environmental
 safeguarding      and                environmental        None                and health
 action taken      transportation     and health                               impacts could
                   costs are not      effects will                             increase due to
                   incurred.          continue at the                          further
                   Transportation     current storage                          deterioration of
                   is completely      premises and in                          OPs and storage
                   avoided.           their                                    facilities.
                                      neighbourhood.

 Safeguarding      Transportation     Repackaging           There is a         Availability and
 at current        from the           costs are still       potential for      timely
 store location    original stores    incurred.             full               disbursement of
                   to MCCs is not     Management of         utilisation of     funds may be
                   incurred           many individual       field              constrained.
                   Risks during       dispersed stores      managers
                   transportation     will be rather        trained
                   of OP stocks       demanding             during
                   from original      Transportation        previous
                   stores to the      of OP stocks          emergency
                   MCCs are           from the original     safeguarding
                   avoided.           stores to the port    efforts. This
                                      is still needed.      would add
                                                            value to the
                                                            impact of
                                                            their training.
 Safeguarding      Management         Concentration of      There is a         Location of the


                                                                                        159
 Alternative Strengths         Weaknesses         Opportunities            Threats
 at MCCs (OP  needs are         risks at the       potential of             large collection
 stocks       reduced and       collection         effective                centres may
 transferred  management        centres due to     utilisation of           incite resistance
 from         effectiveness     the larger         ASP PMU                  and protest by
 dispersed    enhanced          quantity and       staff in                 local
 individual   because the       diversity of       management               communities in
 stores to    problems due      pesticides stored  which adds               the
 MCCs)        to the            at each            value to the             neighbourhood.
              dispersed         collection         impact of
              location of the   centre.            their training.
              current stores
              are completely    High costs due
              avoided.          to the need to
              Transportation    construct new or
              of the            improve existing
              pesticides from   stores to meet
              MCCs to the       minimum
              shipping port     requirements
              can be            and standards
              optimised.
              Risks from
              obsolete
              pesticides are
              completely
              avoided at the
              stores that will
              not be used as
              collection
              centres.
              The alternative
              arrests the
              progression of
              environmental
              and health
              impacts from
              all stores.

It is noteworthy that the option of no safeguarding action does not present any
meaningful opportunity. This is understandable because the no action option simply
maintains the status quo whose deficiencies are the very reason for carrying out this
project.

Considering the discussion on the rationale for establishing MCCs (refer to Section 6.5.2)
and based on the SWOT analysis presented in Table 7.1, it is evident that the use of



                                                                                      160
collection centres for safeguarding is the option that is most favourable. This is the one
recommended for adoption in subsequent decisions in this project.

7.2    Pesticide Transport Means Alternatives

To come up with the best option for transporting the obsolete pesticides within the
country from their eventual safeguarding locations to their disposal place or final
shipping port, three alternatives were identified and analysed. The alternatives are: i)
railway transport, ii) road transport, and iii) a combination of railway and road transport.
Results of the analysis are summarised in Table 7.2. For the transportation needs of the
obsolete pesticides outside the country, two alternatives were considered and analysed: i)
air freight and ii) ocean freight. Results of this analysis are summarised in Table 7.3.

Table 7.2: SWOT analysis of alternative transport means for obsolete pesticides from
original stores to shipping port

 Alternative      Strengths           Weaknesses          Opportunities      Threats
 Railway            Comparatively      Railway             Well organised     Services may
                    cheaper than       networks            security system    be suspended
                    other options.     cannot provide      may be             without prior
                    Accident risks     direct access to    advantageous       warning due to
                    are lower.         any stores and      to the project.    natural
                    Safety risks to    cannot provide                         disasters such
                    the general        any access to                          as floods.
                    public are         most stores and                        There may be
                    generally lower    collection                             a shortage of
                                       centres.                               suitable
                                       Railway                                special
                                       services are                           wagons.
                                       prone to
                                       disruption
                                       hence
                                       unreliable.
                                       Rather rigid
                                       railway service
                                       schedules may
                                       conflict with
                                       project
                                       schedules
                                       which render
                                       the option
                                       being not cost
                                       effective
 Roadway            Road network       Roads have          There are many     There may be
                    can provide        comparatively       well               a shortage of
                    access to all      high accident       experienced        suitably
                    stores and         rates.              local truck        trained and
                    collection         Roads passing       drivers who can    qualified
                    centres.           along human         easily be          personnel (for


                                                                                         161
 Alternative      Strengths             Weaknesses          Opportunities       Threats
                    Is flexible in       settlements and     trained to drive    example,
                    terms of choice      ecologically        vehicles that       drivers) to
                    of suitable          sensitive areas     carry obsolete      handle
                    transport            may pose            pesticides.         emergencies.
                    vehicles.            potential
                    Due to its easy      environmental
                    accessibility, is    and health
                    flexible and         impacts.
                    more amenable        Generally poor
                    to needs of          quality and
                    attending to         seasonal
                    emergencies.         passability of
                                         some roads.
                                         Weak
                                         emergency
                                         response
                                         system in case
                                         of accidents.
 Rail-road way      Exhibits             Exhibits            Exhibits            Exhibits
 combination        strengths of         weaknesses of       opportunities of    threats of both
                    both road and        both road and       both road and       road and rail
                    rail transport.      rail transport.     rail transport.     transport. The
                    The most             The most            The most            most
                    influential will     influential will    influential will    influential will
                    generally be the     generally be        generally be the    generally be
                    one that             the one that        one that            the one that
                    accounts for the     accounts for        accounts for the    accounts for
                    most mileage.        the most            most mileage.       the most
                                         mileage.                                mileage.

The SWOT analysis presented in Table 7.2 indicates that, on the whole, road transport is
the most favourable option for transporting obsolete pesticides from the original stores to
the shipping port in this project. It is noteworthy that the SWOT analysis recognises the
fact that, when railway transport services become reliable, railway transport as well as a
combination of railway and road transport could have advantages for some stores.
However, based on the current state of the two railway lines in Tanzania, railway
transport services are not likely to become reliable in the near future. The central railway
line is short of locomotives and passenger and goods wagons and faces serious
maintenance problems. After a long ownership conflict, it is now under receivership and
as such hardly operational. The Tanzania – Zambia Railway (TAZARA) faces a shortage
of locomotives and wagons. In addition, TAZARA is experiencing serious liquidity
problems that have incapacitated it. In view of the preceding discussion, railway transport
is not a preferred option at the moment. The only option that is currently reliable and
likely to remain so during the execution of this project is road transportation.

Table 7.3: SWOT analysis of alternative transport means for obsolete pesticides from
shipping port to disposal facility outside the country.



                                                                                             162
 Alternative     Strengths           Weaknesses        Opportunities       Threats
 Air freight       Generally fast.    Generally very     The fact that      Prohibitive
                                      expensive.        air freighting is   insurance costs
                                      A shortage of     faster can          and compliance
                                      appropriately     accelerate the      requirements.
                                      equipped          execution of        There may be a
                                      planes for        transport as a      shortage of
                                      transporting      whole.              willing airline
                                      the pesticides                        companies.
                                      Lack of                               Environmental
                                      experience in                         and health
                                      handling                              effects are not
                                      hazardous                             easy to predict
                                      wastes of this                        or contain in
                                      kind.                                 case of
                                                                            accidents.
                                                                            Some airports
                                                                            may refuse
                                                                            planes carrying
                                                                            pesticides to
                                                                            land.
 Ocean freight     Comparatively      Generally          Presence of        High insurance
                   cheap.             slow, so           several            costs and
                   Ships have         transportation     harbours along     compliance
                   provision for      takes a long       the Tanzanian      requirements.
                   transporting       time.              coast means        There may be a
                   hazardous                             shipping can be    shortage of
                   wastes of this                        done from          willing shipping
                   kind.                                 more than one      companies.
                   The shipping                          port, if need be.  Some ports of
                   industry has                          Experience         call may refuse
                   experience in                         from similar       permission to
                   transporting                          previous           ships carrying
                   hazardous                             project can be     obsolete
                   wastes of this                        used.              pesticides to
                   kind.                                 Shipping           dock.
                   This option has                       company and
                   been                                  personnel used
                   successfully                          previously can
                   used by                               be used.
                   Tanzania
                   before.

It is evident from the SWOT analysis presented in Table 7.3 that, for transporting
obsolete pesticides from the shipping port to the ultimate disposal place, ocean freighting
is the favourable option.




                                                                                        163
7.3     Pesticide and Associated Waste Disposal Alternatives

With a view to objectively determining the best options for the disposal of the obsolete
pesticides and their associated waste, identification of disposal alternatives was done on
the basis of where rather than how the OPs and their associated waste could best be
disposed of. It was assumed that proven and established disposal technologies as well as
appropriately competent and experienced disposal contractors would be employed. The
options for disposing OPs within the country or shipping outside the country for eventual
disposal were considered and analysed as summarised in Table 7.4. Similarly, the options
for disposing of pesticide containers within the country or shipping overseas for eventual
disposal were considered and analysed as summarised in Table 7.5.

Table 7.4: SWOT analysis of alternatives for disposal of obsolete pesticides

 Alternative       Strengths       Weaknesses          Opportunities      Threats
 Disposal within     The shipping   Lack of suitable    There is a         Funding
 the country         component of   hazardous           potential for      constraints may
                     the cost is    waste disposal      utilisation of     derail disposal
                     avoided.       technology and      cement kilns       efforts.
                     There is       equipment.          that available     Potential
                     capacity       Inadequate          in the country.    protests and
                     building in    suitable human                         resistance from
                     obsolete       resources to                           communities in
                     pesticide      carry out                              the
                     management.    disposal                               neighbourhood
                     There is       operations.                            of disposal
                     contribution toA lack of                              facilities.
                     the local      institutional
                     economy.       system for
                                    guiding,
                                    overseeing, and
                                    monitoring the
                                    disposal
                                    operations.
                                    Delays due to
                                    necessity of
                                    acquiring and
                                    installing
                                    disposal
                                    facilities.
 Disposal           Disposal        Disposal costs      There is an        Long shipping
 outside the        experts,        are generally       opportunity for    time may delay
 country            technology and  higher due to       gaining            commencement
                    equipment are   shipping costs      expertise and      of disposal
                    available.      and higher          experience for     operations.
                    System for      labour costs.       local              High insurance
                    dealing with    Does not build      contractors and    costs and
                    obsolete        local obsolete      personnel          compliance
                    pesticides      pesticide           working hand       requirements.


                                                                                      164
 Alternative      Strengths            Weaknesses         Opportunities      Threats
                    (contractors,       disposal           in hand with       There may be a
                    regulators,         capacity.          foreign            shortage of
                    emergency           Does not           contractors.       willing
                    responders) is      contribute to                         shipping
                    in place and        the local                             companies.
                    effective.          economy.                              Some ports of
                    The pesticide       Possible delays                       call may refuse
                    disposal            due to the need                       permission for
                    problem is          to wait for                           ships carrying
                    completely          suitable                              OPs to dock.
                    eliminated.         shipping lines.
                    Disposal can        Long shipping
                    be carried out      time may delay
                    immediately         commencement
                    after arrival of    of disposal
                    pesticides          operations.
                    without delays,
                    hence a
                    reduction in
                    liability
                    period.

The lack of suitable hazardous waste processing and destruction technology and
equipment asserted in Table 7.4 is attested to by the fact that incinerators suitable for
destroying hazardous wastes such as OP stocks, especially on the scale required in this
project does not exist in Tanzania. Although there are incinerators used for destroying
medical wastes, these are generally small and designed to suit only relatively small
quantities of medical wastes. Additionally, as noted in Chapter 4 of this report, the use of
cement kilns for destroying the OP stocks is not appropriate at the moment. Apart from
the technical limitations associated with this option, recent consultations with the owners
of the kilns indicate that they are firmly against the idea of using their kilns for destroying
OP stocks.

Further to the above, it must be noted that the destruction of some quantities of OP stocks
in cement kilns previously done in Tanzania was done on experimental basis with
external technical assistance. This implies that the effort cannot be taken as a
demonstration of the country’s institutional, human resource, or technological capacity to
handle the disposal of current stocks of OPs and its associated waste.

In view of the preceding discussion and the SWOT analysis summarised in Table 7.4, it
is more advantageous to carry out the final disposal of obsolete pesticides outside the
country than within the country. It is important to note that, as discussed later with
respect to Table 7.5, the advantages of disposal outside the country apply to the disposal
of the free standing obsolete pesticides and associated waste; excluding contaminated
empty pesticide containers.




                                                                                           165
Table 7.5: SWOT analysis of alternative options for disposal of obsolete pesticide
           containers and their washwater
 Alternative       Strengths           Weaknesses           Opportunities      Threats
 Disposal within     Capacity for       Capacity for         Setting up         Suitably
 the country         recycling of       washwater            capacity for       qualified
                     plastic and        management is        washwater          contractors
                     metal              currently low.       management is      may not be
                     containers is                           easy.              available on
                     available.                              There is a         time.
                     Markets for                             capacity
                     recycled                                building
                     plastic and                             opportunity.
                     metal products
                     are available.
                     Transport costs
                     are lower
                     because of the
                     elimination of
                     the shipping
                     component of
                     the cost.
 Disposal            Capacity for       There is             There is an        Stringent
 outside the         management         additional           opportunity for    regulations
 country             of all types of    transport cost       gaining            may
                     containers and     for the empty        expertise and      discourage
                     the resulting      containers.          experience for     some
                     washwater is       It precludes         local              contractors
                     available.         opportunities for    contractors and    from bidding,
                     Higher             capacity             personnel          hence higher
                     flexibility in     building.            working hand       disposal costs.
                     terms of           Costly and time      in hand with
                     eligible and       – consuming          foreign
                     capable            compliance           contractors..
                     contractors.       requirements.
                                        Implementation
                                        scheduling
                                        depends on
                                        availability and
                                        schedule of
                                        suitable ships.
                                        Denies local
                                        contractors of
                                        potential income
                                        earning
                                        opportunity.




                                                                                           166
The SWOT analysis summarised in Table 7.5 leads to the conclusion that it is better to
dispose of pesticide containers within than outside the country. It can be noted that the
advantages of internal disposal option outweigh those of external disposal despite the fact
that disposal of obsolete pesticide containers has not been done in the country before.

In spite of the conclusion drawn from Table 7.5, consultation with relevant stakeholders
on this issue indicated that the majority of the stakeholders were opposed to any attempt
to destroy pesticide contaminated containers and pesticide contaminated washwater in
Tanzania. The main arguments cited to support the opposition were: a lack of suitable
technology and facilities, insufficient human resources, inexperience, and uncertainities
regarding capacity and commitment of local institutions towards the provision of
effective oversight. It was further pointed out that, much as it is desirable to build the
kind of capacity that would be offered by this project component, the urgency associated
with this project far outweighs the potential benefit. In summary, the best option would
be to dispose the OPs and its associated waste in licensed high temperature facilities for
destruction of hazardous waste outside the country

7.4    Cost Considerations for OP Safeguarding and Disposal Options

Table 7.6a: Option 1: A clean sweep of inventorised OP and safeguarding of
            contaminated soils

 Waste stream component                      Quantity (tones)  Estimated cost (USD)
 Obsolete pesticides                                       700             2,800,000
 Contaminated soils                                       2755            11,020,000
 Total                                                    3455            13,820,000




                                                                                       167
Table 7.6b: Option 2: Risk reduction strategy combining safeguarding and destruction
of OP and contaminated soil based on PSMS risk profiles

 Waste stream component                       Quantity (tones) Estimated cost (USD)
 Obsolete pesticides                                        700            2,800,000
 Contaminated soils                                        2755           11,020,000
 Other contaminated material                                 3.6              14,400
 Total                                                   3458.6           13,834,400

In Tables 7.6a and 7.6b, ‘other contaminated material’ includes pesticide contaminated
containers and all wastes generated during the safeguarding operations. The costs are
based on all inclusive average unit rates accounting for all costs involved from the OP
stock sources in Tanzania to the final disposal place outside Tanzania. The average unit
rate is derived from past experience with adjustments that take into consideration
prevailing conditions.

From the analysis summarised in Tables 7.6a and 7.6b, none of the options considered is
significantly more advantageous than the other. Based on this analysis, therefore, neither
Option 1 nor Option 2 deserves preferential treatment to the other.

7.5    Comparison of options for the involvement of PMU and contractors in OP
       management aspects

In consideration of the fact that the different tasks involved in safeguarding,
transportation, and disposal of the OP can be carried out by NEMC and its supporting and
entities, on the one hand, and contractors, on the other, a comparison the options involded
is important. The alternatives are: i) PMU alone, ii) contractors alone, and iii) PMU
together with contractors. Results of the Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and
Threats (SWOT) analysis is summarised in Table 7.7

Table 7.7: SWOT analysis of alternatives for safeguarding obsolete pesticides

 Alternative     Strengths           Weaknesses        Opportunities      Threats
 PMU alone        Is experienced      Has               There is an        Current
                  in emergency        insufficient      opportunity        deficiencies
                  safeguarding        manpower          for acquiring      in PMU may
                  Is familiar with    Lacks the         expertise,         delay the
                  the local           required          experience         whole project
                  administrative,     infrastructure    and                For project
                  social -            and               technology         components
                  economic, and       technologies                         taking place
                  environmental       Has limited                          outside the
                  needs               technical                            country, PMU
                  Generally           competence                           may have to
                  cheaper than        in some                              team up with
                  contractors         aspects                              the


                                                                                       168
 Alternative    Strengths         Weaknesses         Opportunities      Threats
                                   Has no                                international
                                   jurisdiction                          contractor
                                   outside                               anyway
                                   Tanzania
 Contractors      Have requisite   Are generally       Utilisation of     Local
                  competence,      ignorant of         local              contractors
                  technology, and  the local           personnel and      will still need
                  infrastructure   conditions          subcontractors     support of the
                  Have             Are generally       will lessen        ASP PMU.
                  experience       expensive for       some
                  from similar     managing            weaknesses
                  undertakings     small OP
                                   stocks
 PMU and          Will benefit     Some                There are          Pursuance of
 contractors      from the         operation           opportunities      some public
                  strengths of     regulations of      to learn from      as well as
                  both PMU and     the public          one another        private
                  contractors      PMU may             and reinforce      interests may
                                   hinder joint        each another       be
                                   efforts in                             compromised
                                   some aspects

Table 7.5 reaffirms the notion presented earlier that some tasks are best handled by the
PMU while others are best handled by the disposal service contractor because neither the
PMU nor the contractors are best suited to handle all the OP management work.




                                                                                     169
                                CHAPTER EIGHT

8.0 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MONITORING PLAN

8.1    Overview

Monitoring is needed to check if and to what extent the impacts are mitigated, benefits
enhanced and new problems addressed. Plans for monitoring have been included in the
Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan (Table 8.1). The monitoring plan as for EMP
also assigns responsibilities for monitoring activities.

Monitoring of safeguarding activities shall be undertaken by members of the Project
Management Unit (PMU) including the National Project Coordinator (NPC), and
Technical Advisor for Disposal (TAD). Others could be the Field Managers (FMs), M&E
officer, and the Zonal agriculture coordinators (ZC) from MAFS&C.

Where resettlement will be necessary, local government officials will be involved in the
monitoring exercise. Non-governmental Organisations and other Community Services
Organisations will constitute the monitoring team for the safeguarding activities. It is
anticipated that use of NGO monitors will provide an impartial assessment of the
effectiveness of the proposed mitigation measures. The PMU may identify the most
appropriate national NGO to fill this role.




                                                                                    170
           Table 8.1:       Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan

Activity           Impact                Preventive Measure            Mitigation             Parameters   Location     Data and/or      Frequency of      Responsibilities    Cost
                                                                       Measures               to be                     Measurement      Measuremen        (incl. review       (Equipment
                                                                                              Monitored                 s (incl.         t                 and reporting)      & Labor
                                                                                                                        methods &                                              (US$)
                                                                                                                        equipment)
Repackaging        Health of operators     The FM undertakes a            Regular             Number of    Medical      Observation of   Before            NPC, TAD,           50,000
                   due to contact with     Task Based Risk                medical             medical      facilities   medical          working and       Zonal
                   pesticides              Assessment of the              checks;             checkups     within the   records          after every six   coordinators,
                                           hazards of materials that      Emergency                        locality                      months            FMs, Disposal
                                           will be repackaged and         shower set up                                                                    service
                                           the nature of the              at the site.                                                                     contractors
                                           repackaging activity.          Full-time
                                           This determines the            presence of
                                           type of Personal               project nurse
                                           Protective Equipment           The nearest
                                           required                       hospital or
                                           The specification of           clinic has been
                                           repackaging equipment,         identified and
                                           such as drum pumps,            notified about
                                           has been selected such         the project
                                           that it minimizes the          team’s
                                           necessity for contact          activities in
                                           with pesticides.               each given
                                           The site is zoned off          area, zone or
                                           with hazard tape or            location’s
                                           fencing and warning
                                           signs.
                                           Doors and windows of
                                           the store are covered to
                                           prevent the egress of
                                           dust and vapour.

                   Air pollution due       All electrical and other       The fire service    Number of    At the       Observations                       FM,                 35,000
                   to a fire               equipment used inside          is notified         fire         pesticide                                       international
                                           the store is flameproof;       about the           incidences   stores                                          contractors
                                           Where possible                 activities taking
                                           flammable materials are        place at the site




                                                                                                                                                                              171
Activity   Impact              Preventive Measure            Mitigation             Parameters       Location    Data and/or    Frequency of   Responsibilities    Cost
                                                             Measures               to be                        Measurement    Measuremen     (incl. review       (Equipment
                                                                                    Monitored                    s (incl.       t              and reporting)      & Labor
                                                                                                                 methods &                                         (US$)
                                                                                                                 equipment)
                                 excluded from the store;        so they are in a
                                 Incompatible materials          state of
                                 are not mixed together.         preparedness.
                                 They are either                 Fire               Types and
                                 completely separated or         extinguishing      number of fire
                                 segregated and where            equipment is       extinguishing
                                 necessary adequate fire         part of the        equipment
                                 and physical barriers are       emergency
                                 erected between                 response kit
                                 dangerous chemicals             carried by the
                                                                 team.
                                                                 Appropriate
                                                                 and
                                                                 recommended
                                                                 substances are
                                                                 made available
                                                                 for fire
                                                                 extinguishing
                                                                 in case of fire
                                                                 outbreaks.
           Soil and              The areas where liquids     Where spills occur,    Frequency of     At the      Physical       Weekly         Zonal               50,000
           groundwater           are repacked are            the team carries       spillage.        pesticide   observations                  coordinators,
           contamination due     protected with plastic      emergency spill                         stores                                    FM,
           to pesticide          and plywood sheeting;       kits which include     Number and                                                 international
           spillage              Pumping equipment is        absorbent              types of                                                   contractors
                                 controllable directly by    materials and sand     emergency
                                 the operators filling and   snakes to stop         spill kits.
                                 drum;                       spills from
                                 The drums are UN            spreading.
                                 approved for the
                                 materials to be pumped
                                 into them.
                                 The floors are cleaned
                                 by sweeping and/or
                                 vacuuming.




                                                                                                                                                                  172
Activity         Impact              Preventive Measure              Mitigation            Parameters      Location        Data and/or      Frequency of     Responsibilities    Cost
                                                                     Measures              to be                           Measurement      Measuremen       (incl. review       (Equipment
                                                                                           Monitored                       s (incl.         t                and reporting)      & Labor
                                                                                                                           methods &                                             (US$)
                                                                                                                           equipment)
                 Air pollution due   The door ways and
                 to release of       windows are covered with
                 harmful vapours     plastic sheeting to keep the
                                     dust and fumes within the
                                     store ensuring adequate
                                     ventilation away from the
                                     public to avoid accidental
                                     explosion;
                                     Dust suppression
                                     techniques are used.

Transportation   Soil and/or water      The drums are specified        The escort          Number of       In the          Physical         During           Zonal               75,000
by road to MCC   contamination          for international              vehicles carry      incidences of   transportatio   observations     transportation   coordinators,
                 resulting from         transport;                     emergency spill     spills,         n routes                                          NGO, National
                 accidental spill       Drums to be repackaged         kits to prevent     leakages,                                                         Project
                                        and consolidated at the        spillage from       accidents and                                                     Coordinator
                                        MCC are placed in              spreading in the    injuries                                                          (NPC) ,
                                        salvage over-drums;            event of an                                                                           international
                                        The vehicles should be         accident.                                                                             contractors
                                        lined with a spill tray to
                                        catch any leaks;
                                        The transport route has
                                        been assessed and
                                        selected as the safest and
                                        most direct;
                                        The maximum speed of
                                        the vehicles is set to
                                        60km/hr.
Storage at MCC   Soil and            The MCC stores have been        Spill kits are made   Number of       At the MCC      Physical         Weekly           National Project    35,000
                 groundwater         selected on the basis of        available at MCCs.    spill kits      stores          observations                      Coordinator
                 contamination due   their specification which                                                                                               (NPC) , TAD,
                 to pesticide        includes impervious floors                            Risk factors                    Calculation of   Before and       Zonal
                 spillage            and their proximity to all                            (Fe and Fp)                     risk factors     after            coordinators,
                                     necessary safety outlets                                                              using the        pesticides are   NGO, FM,
                                                                                                                           method           moved in the     Disposal service
                                                                                                                           specified in     MCC              contractor




                                                                                                                                                                                173
Activity         Impact                Preventive Measure             Mitigation             Parameters      Location        Data and/or    Frequency of     Responsibilities    Cost
                                                                      Measures               to be                           Measurement    Measuremen       (incl. review       (Equipment
                                                                                             Monitored                       s (incl.       t                and reporting)      & Labor
                                                                                                                             methods &                                           (US$)
                                                                                                                             equipment)
                                                                                                                             FAO EMTK
                                                                                                                             Vol. 1
                 Air pollution due       The storage of drums            The fire service    Number of       At the MCC      Physical       Weekly                               35,000
                 to a fire               within an MCC is                should develop      fire            stores          observations
                                         segregated according to         an evacuation       extinguishers
                                         the types and hazards of        plan for the area
                                         materials – Incompatible        around the          Adequacy of
                                         materials should be             MCC.                an evacuation
                                         segregated;                     The store keeper    plan
                                         Electrical wiring should        maintains
                                         be intrinsically safe.          records of the
                                                                         positions and
                                                                         contents of each
                                                                         drum within the
                                                                         store;
                                                                         Adequate
                                                                         number of the
                                                                         fire
                                                                         extinguishers
                                                                         should be
                                                                         available at the
                                                                         MCC.
Transportation   Spillage       or       The shipping containers      The convoy of          Number of       In the          Physical       During                               55,000
to Dar es        accident leads to       for drums of liquid are      containers is          incidences of   transportatio   observations   transportation
Salaam           soil, groundwater       lined with a steel spill     escorted by            spills,         n routes
                 contamination           tray to contain any leaks;   vehicles with          leakages,
                                         Each containers is           emergency              accidents and
                                         slowed with compatible       response spill         injuries
                                         materials;                   equipment.
                                         Stowage of materials
                                         within the shipping
                                         containers strictly
                                         conforms to IMDG Code
Transportation   Containers       or   The stowage of drums           Marine salvage         Adequacy of     In the sea      Physical       During           TAD, NPC,           65,000
by Sea           whole ship sinks      within the container is such   would be required      marine          transportatio   observations   transportation   Disposal Service
                                       that the materials should      to rescue the          salvage         n routes                                        contractor




                                                                                                                                                                                174
Activity   Impact              Preventive Measure            Mitigation          Parameters   Location   Data and/or   Frequency of   Responsibilities    Cost
                                                             Measures            to be                   Measurement   Measuremen     (incl. review       (Equipment
                                                                                 Monitored               s (incl.      t              and reporting)      & Labor
                                                                                                         methods &                                        (US$)
                                                                                                         equipment)
                               not leak.                     containers.         facilities
                                 The incineration            Facilities have                                                          TAD, NPC,           80,000
                                 facilities are equipped     action and                                                               Disposal Service
           Air pollution due     with state of the art       evacuation plans                                                         Contractor
Disposal   to release of         pollution abatement         to conform to the
           hamful gases          technology;                 EMTK Guidelines
                                 The emissions are
                                 analysed to conform that
                                 they meet specification;
                                 The facilities have fail-
                                 safe emergency
                                 shutdown procedures to
                                 stop waste burning if a
                                 serious failure in the
                                 process occurs.




                                                                                                                                                         175
8.2    Project Team Monitoring and Reporting

8.2.1 Field Managers (FMs)

The day to day monitoring of the field activities shall be undertaken by the FMs and
M&E officers. A variety of standard forms exist which will be used to communicate and
monitor field activities. The forms are maintained within the project office both
electronically and in hard copies for reference, follow-up and auditing. The content of
the various forms is as given below.

Forms and details concerning:
      Daily Briefing
      Project checklists
      Daily Progress Reports
      Weekly Progress Reports
      Work Plans

The blank forms for these documents are included in Appendix 8.1 and are summarized
below:

Daily Briefings

The field managers provide daily briefings to the operational staff in the field. These
briefings include the principal activity for the day, a review of progress, Task Based Risk
Assessment, and PPE requirements and issues that need addressing.

Project Check lists

The field managers have a project check list to ensure that all items are in place to
undertake the day to day activities safely.

The list includes sections on:
        Documentation required;
        Working areas;
        Worker training;
        Daily briefing given to Regional Administration, counterparts, hired labourers,
        drivers;
        PPE (correct use) by counterparts, hired labourers, and visitors;
        Storekeeper (on time, co-operative);
        Variations to work plan;
        Packages and labeling;
        Health monitoring.




                                                                                       176
Daily Progress Report

       List of project staff;
       Planned activity for the day;
       Actual activity undertaken.

Weekly Progress Report

       Principle tasks undertaken;
       Progress against work plan;
       Safety issues;
       Update risk assessment
       Variation;
       Instructions issued;
       Operations planned for the following week.

Work Plans

       Weekly plan with detail for each day;
       Zone work plan with summary detail.

Forms and details related to each of the activities are given in Appendix 8.1 of this
document to show a better picture of what is going on in addition to the above generic
type of listing.

8.2.2 NPC and TAD Monitoring

The National Project Coordinator (NPC) and the Technical Advisor for Disposal (TAD)
should undertake regular visits to the field to observe the teams’ activities. The frequency
of these observation missions should be such that each team is observed as often as
necessary. To ensure that normal behaviour is observed, the observations should be
unannounced. The NPC also monitors the effectiveness of the Disposal Service
Contactor.


8.3    Monitoring of the PMU

It is recommended that a suitably qualified independent consultant be procured to
monitor and evaluate the performance of the PMU. The consultant should necessarily be
well qualified in important aspects of OP management based on both academic training
and experience acquired through undertaking similar assignments.




                                                                                        177
                                    CHAPTER NINE
9.0 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING
    REQUIREMENTS

Tanzania currently has some capacity in the area of management of obsolete pesticides.
This capacity has been developed as a result of training and field experience gained from
the implementation of past initiatives in Tanzania. One of the main objectives of the ASP
in Tanzania is to build on the existing capacity and to establish new capacity in each of
the key components of the project. Specifically, those who will be involved in
safeguarding and disposal activities as elucidated in this CESA document need to be
properly trained to enable them discharge their duties effectively, safely and in an
environmentally friendly manner. In view of this, capacity needs to be developed in the
following areas:

 (vii)    Health and safety,
 (viii)   Environmental protection,
 (ix)     Equipment supply,
 (x)      Public consultation, management,
 (xi)     Environmental policies and programs
 (xii)    Management, planning and budgeting

Training objectives will be achieved by organising induction courses and training
workshops as detailed in Table 9.1.

Table 9.1: Environmental and social management training requirements

Training        Participants     Types of       Training content Training         Cost
topic                            training                        scheduling    estimates
                                                                                 (USD)
Health and     - NEMC staff,              - EMTKs
                                 Health and                    One month         200,000
Safety         - MAFS&C          Safety   - Theory on          after site
                 staff,          pertinent tooccupational      mobilization
               - Field           safeguardingsafety and
                 workers,        of OP stockshealth pertinent
               - Truck drivers   (as derived to safeguarding
                                 from the H&Sand disposal
                                 plan)    - Practicals on
                                             occupational
                                             safety and
                                             health pertinent
                                             to safeguarding
                                             and disposal
Environmen - MAFS&C       - Environment - EMTKs               - Two months        19,500
tal          staff (zonal al             - Environmental        after
protection   coordinators   management      impacts and         commencing
             and     field pertinent to     management          operatons
             managers)      safeguarding    needs of


                                                                                     178
Training     Participants    Types of       Training content Training             Cost
topic                        training                        scheduling        estimates
                                                                                 (USD)
                              as derived      pesticides use
                              from relevant
                              EMTK
Emergency - NEMC staff, - Emergency         - EMTKs           - Three            20,000
planning     - MAFS&C         planning and - Tanzania           months after
and            staff,         response        National          project
response     - Field          aspects         Operating         commencing
               workers,                       Guidelines        site
             - Truck drivers                  (NOG) for         operations
                                              disaster
                                              response
Equipment - Procurement - Training          - World Bank      - One month         4,000
supply         management     workshop        procurement       after
               unit                           procedures        commencing
                                            - Tanzania public   operatons
                                              procurement
                                              procedures and
                                              regulations
Public       - NEMC staff - Training        - Stakeholders    - Two months      220,000.
consultation - MAFS&C         workshop        Identification,   after
               staff                          Mobilisation      commencing
             - NGO      staff                 and               operatons
               (selected)                     Involvement

Managemen - NEMC            - Training     - Project         - One month          8,200
t, planning project           workshop       management        after
and         coordinating                     and planning      commencing
budgeting   team                           - Budget planning   operatons

Environmen - NEMC           - Training     - Environmental    - One month         8,200
tal policies project          workshop       policies           after
and          coordinating                  - Environmental      commencing
programs     team                            programs           operatons




                                                                                    179
BIBLIOGRAPHY AND REFERENCES
1.    EMTK – FAO VolumeOL 1 and VOL 2.
2.    EMTK – FAO Volume 2.
3.    Kassenga, G.R. and Mato, R.A.A.M. (2007). Study on Country Environmental
      Profile for Tanzania. For Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA).
4.    Kishimba, M. (2009). Buried Pesticides and Contaminated Soils. Consultancy
      Report prepared for the National Environment Management Council (NEMC),
      Dar es Salaam.
5.    McDowall, R. (2008). Site Sampling Report and Plan. Buried Pesticides and
      Contaminated Soils. Consultancy Report prepared for the National Environment
      Management Council (NEMC), Dar es Salaam.
6.    McDowall, R. (2009). REPORT 3: Sampling analysis & Risk Assessment.
      Consultancy Report prepared for the National Environment Management Council
      (NEMC), Dar es Salaam.
7.    McDowall, R. (2009). REPORT 4: Disposal Option. Buried Pesticides and
      Contaminated Soils. Consultancy Report prepared for the National Environment
      Management Council (NEMC), Dar es Salaam.
8.    McDowall, R. (2009). REPORT 4: Final Project Plan (EMP). Buried Pesticides
      and Contaminated Soils. Consultancy Report prepared for the National
      Environment Management Council (NEMC), Dar es Salaam.
9.    Pesticide Stock Management System (PSMS) database
10.   PPA Act 1997
11.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (1997). Agriculture and Livestock Policy.
      Dar es Salaam.
12.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (1998). National Forestry Policy. Dar es
      Salaam.
13.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (2002). National Water Policy. Dar es
      Salaam.
14.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (2003). National Energy Policy. Dar es
      Salaam
15.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (2005). Human Capacity Needs Assessment
      for water Resources Management and Development in Tanzania. Dar es Salaam.
16.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (2005). National Water Sector Development
      Strategy. Dar es Salaam.
17.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (2007). OPERATIONAL MANUAL. Africa
      Stockpile Programme- ASP-P1, NEMC, Dar es Salaam.
18.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (2008). Strategic Framework for Capacity
      Development in the Water Sector in Tanzania. Dar es Salaam.
19.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (2009a). Buried Pesticides and Contaminated
      Soils Tanzania, National Consultant Report, REPORT 1, Africa Stockpile
      Programme- ASP-P1, NEMC, Dar es Salaam.
20.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (2009b). Buried Pesticides and Contaminated
      Soils Tanzania, Consultant Report, REPORT 2, Africa Stockpile Programme-
      ASP-P1, NEMC, Dar es Salaam.




                                                                               180
21.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (2009c). Buried Pesticides and Contaminated
      Soils: REPORT 3: Sampling analysis & Risk Assessment. National Consultant
      Report, Africa Stockpile Programme- ASP-P1, NEMC, Dar es Salaam.
22.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania) (2009d). Buried Pesticides and Contaminated
      Soils Tanzania, Consultant Report, REPORT 4, Africa Stockpile Programme-
      ASP-P1, NEMC, Dar es Salaam.
23.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania), (1996). Sustainable Industrial Development
      Policy. Dar es Salaam.
24.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania), (1997). National Fisheries Sector Policy and
      Strategy Statement. Dar es Salaam.
25.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania), (1998). The National Poverty Eradication
      Strategy. Dar es Salaam.
26.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania), (1999). The Tanzania Development Vision
      2025. Dar es Salaam.
27.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania), (2000). National Human Settlements
      Development Policy. Dar es Salaam.
28.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania), (2001). Rural Development Policy. Dar es
      Salaam.
29.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania), (2001). The Agriculture Sector Development
      Strategy (ASDS). Dar es Salaam.
30.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania), (2005). National Strategy for Growth and
      Reduction of Poverty (NSGRP). Dar es Salaam.
31.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania). The Environmental Management Act of
      2004. Dar es Salaam.
32.   URT (United Republic of Tanzania). The Water Resources Management Act of
      2009. Dar es Salaam.




                                                                                 181
                                  APPENDICES
APPENDIX 4.1: Results of DDT analysis of water samples from obsolete pesticide
storage sites


                                                   Concentration in (µg/mL)
 Sampling location description              pp-DDT pp-DDD op-DDT pp-DDE
 Shallow well downstream of Vikuge            0.57      0.15       0.23     0.02
 store site
 Pond upstream of Vikuge store site           0.43         0.10          0.31      0.01
 Morogoro River downstream of MFCU            0.32         0.11          0.13      ND
 store site
 Borehole in Funga funga area near             ND          ND            ND        ND
 MFCU store site
 Borehole within the Mbarali farm store       0.07         ND            ND        ND
 site
 Canal within the Mbarali farm site           0.03         ND            ND        ND
 Tap water from network located in Uyole      ND           ND            ND        ND
 store site
ND-Not Detected


APPENDIX 4.2: Detailed data on distribution of pesticides per physical state and
package type

Physical state           Unit    Type of container         material      Size    Number
gas                          5              Jerry can          Plastic       5          1
granules                11,960                   Bag           Plastic       1        170
                                                                paper        1         15
                                                                Paper      2.5          4
                                                               Plastic       5        575
                                                                Paper       20        185
                                                                Paper       25         26
                                                               Plastic      25          2
                                               Bottle           Glass      0.1          1
                                                               Plastic     0.5          6
                                                       Plastic               1          8
                                                  Box Cardboard           0.18       3687
                                                       Cardboard             1          1
                                 Drum (closed head)    Cardboard           0.5       4320
                                                       Aluminium             2          3
                                                       Steel               200         13
                                             Jerry can Plastic               5          1
liquid (pumpable)       71,082                  Bottle Glass              0.02         20
                                                       Glass              0.04        259


                                                                                     182
Physical state   Unit   Type of container           material   Size   Number
                                               Plastic          0.1       181
                                               Glass            0.1       171
                                               Aluminium        0.1       280
                                               Plastic         0.12       686
                                               Plastic         0.16        10
                                               Plastic          0.2      2117
                                               Aluminium       0.25       310
                                               Plastic         0.25         2
                                               Plastic          0.5        48
                                               Aluminium        0.5         2
                                               Steel            0.5         1
                                               Glass            0.5     15074
                                               Aluminium          1        14
                                               Glass              1         3
                                               Plastic            1      9887
                                               Steel              1        12
                                               Plastic            2        19
                                               Glass              2         1
                                               Plastic          2.5         1
                                               Plastic            5        43
                                               Aluminium          5         2
                                               Glass             24         7
                                               Plastic          100        10
                                               Plastic          160      1900
                                               Aluminium        200         4
                                               Plastic          250        38
                                               Plastic          750         1
                                        Box    Aluminium          5      1454
                                               Cardboard         10         1
                          Combination packs    Steel             10       250
                          Combination packs    Steel             21        15
                          Drum (closed head)   Aluminium          1        26
                                               Aluminium         20         6
                                               Aluminium         25        84
                                               Aluminium         30         3
                                               Aluminium         50        33
                                               Plastic           20        72
                                               Plastic           25        20
                                               Steel             10         1
                                               Steel             20        65
                                               Steel             25        13
                                               Steel             50        21
                                               Steel            200        33
                           Drum (open head)    Plastic          0.5         8
                                               Aluminium          3         1
                                               Plastic           20        13
                                               Steel            200         7



                                                                         183
Physical state         Unit    Type of container         material   Size     Number
                                                     Steel            320         24
                                           Jerry can Aluminium          1          8
                                                     Aluminium          4          1
                                                     Aluminium          5          2
                                                     Aluminium         25          2
                                                     Aluminium         60          1
                                                     Plastic            1         18
                                                     Plastic            2          2
                                                     Plastic         2.25        120
                                                     Plastic            4          2
                                                     Plastic            5       1258
                                                     Plastic         7.57          1
                                                     Plastic           10         74
                                                     Plastic           20          2
                                                     Plastic           25         25
                                                     Plastic           30          2
                                                     Plastic           50         20
                                                     Steel              2          1
liquid (separated)     2,258                  Bottle Glass            0.5          7
                                                     Plastic            1          5
                                                     Plastic            2          1
                                  Drum (closed head) Steel             50          2
                                           Jerry can Plastic            5        119
                                                     Plastic           25          2
                                                     Aluminium         50          1
powder (caked)        28,636                    Bag Plastic             1         12
                                                     Plastic           50         16
                             Bottle                  Plastic          0.4          6
                                                     Plastic          0.5          1
                                                     Plastic            2          1
                             Box                     Aluminium         50        360
                                                     Wood             100         30
                             Combination packs
                             (specify)               Cardboard         0.5       268
                             Drum (open head)        Steel               3         1
                                                     Cardboard          50         3
                                                     Steel            200         12
                                        Woven sack Plastic              25        13
powder (flowable)    950,554                    Bag Aluminium          0.1        94
                                                     Aluminium         0.5         2
                                                     Aluminium           1        82
                                                     Aluminium        200        216
                                                     Paper          0.001          8
                                                     Paper           0.08          4
                                                     Paper           0.09        160
                                                     Paper           0.13          2
                                                     Paper           0.25       2268
                                                     Paper             0.4        10


                                                                                184
Physical state   Unit   Type of container      material    Size     Number
                                           Paper              0.5        12
                                           Paper           0.625          4
                                           Paper                1        49
                                           Paper              1.5         3
                                           Paper                2         4
                                           Paper                5         2
                                           Paper               10         1
                                           Paper               15         3
                                           Paper               16      1000
                                           Paper               20       500
                                           Paper               25       106
                                           Paper               50        14
                                           Paper             250          1
                                           Plastic         0.032        480
                                           Plastic        0.0625          7
                                           Plastic          0.09        200
                                           Plastic            0.1       118
                                           Plastic            0.2      6694
                                           Plastic          0.25       1197
                                           Plastic            0.5      1618
                                           Plastic              1      1228
                                           Plastic              2        29
                                           Plastic          4.15         10
                                           Plastic              5         6
                                           Plastic             10         6
                                           Plastic             20       906
                                           Plastic             25         8
                                           Plastic             50      6752
                                           Plastic             80        50
                                           Plastic             90       100
                                           Plastic           200         48
                                           Plastic           250         12
                                    Bottle Aluminium          0.5       569
                                           Aluminium         500        100
                                           Glass            0.25          1
                                           Plastic          0.03          5
                                           Plastic          0.12        200
                                           Plastic            0.2       207
                                           Plastic          0.25        310
                                           Plastic            0.5      1439
                                           Plastic              1       206
                                           Plastic              3         3
                                           Plastic             10        12
                                           Plastic             25         6
                                           Plastic           200         13
                                           Plastic           400         16
                                           Plastic           500          1



                                                                       185
Physical state   Unit   Type of container        material     Size   Number
                                        Box Cardboard          0.1        48
                                             Cardboard         0.5      3474
                                             Cardboard           1       105
                                             Cardboard           2         2
                                             Cardboard         2.5         1
                                             Cardboard           5         4
                                             Cardboard          10         6
                                             Cardboard          20         1
                                             Cardboard          25         7
                                             Steel               1         2
                                             Wood             0.03       714
                          Combination packs Plastic            0.4       800
                                             Plastic            25       250
                          Drum (closed head) Aluminium         0.5       340
                                             Cardboard          20         1
                                             Cardboard          25         2
                                             Plastic           0.5        20
                                             Steel             0.5       680
                                             Steel               1         5
                           Drum (open head) Aluminium          0.2         5
                                             Aluminium         0.5         2
                                             Aluminium           3        24
                                             Aluminium           5         2
                                             Aluminium          20         2
                                             Aluminium          54         3
                                             Cardboard          20         1
                                             Cardboard          35         1
                                             Plastic           0.5         3
                                             Plastic             1         6
                                             Steel               3        12
                                             Steel              25         1
                                             Steel              50       506
                                             Steel             100         8
                                             Steel             200        35
                                   Jerry can Aluminium           1        91
                                             Aluminium         1.1       524
                                             Aluminium           3         9
                                             Aluminium           3         7
                                             Aluminium           5         5
                                             Plastic           0.1         5
                                             Plastic             1       128
                                             Plastic             5        83
                                             Steel              15         1
                                                      None
                                               500,000 kg S
                                Woven sack Plastic               1         0
                                           Plastic              25         1
                                           Plastic             100       300


                                                                        186
Physical state        Unit     Type of container           material   Size   Number
sludge               31,001 Bag                      Plastic            10        15
                            Bottle                   Plastic          0.25         4
                            Drum (closed head)       Cardboard          50         2
                            Drum (open head)         Aluminium         250        35
                            Jerry can                Plastic            50       440
solidified           31,684
                            Bag                      Plastic            15         2
                            Bottle                   Plastic           0.2       208
                                                     Plastic           0.5         4
                                                     Plastic             1        13
                             Box
                             Drum (closed head)      Cardboard         400        29
                                                     Aluminium          20         2
                                                     Aluminium          30         2
                                                     Aluminium         100         1
                                                     Steel               1        15
                                                     Steel              25        24
                                                     Steel              60         1
                                   Drum (open head) Aluminium            2         1
                                                     Steel             200         4
                                                     Steel             205        56
                                           Jerry can Aluminium          20        20
                                                     Plastic             5      4731
Sprayer (portable)                                                    0.25         1
                                                                         1         1
empty container                               Bottle Plastic          0.12      1008
                                                     Plastic           0.5         7
                                                     Plastic             1      1021
                                   Combination packs Plastic             4         1
                                                     Steel             200         1
                             Drum (closed head)      Steel              50         6
                             Jerry can               Plastic             5       300




                                                                                187
APPENDIX 6.1: ROAD TRANSPORTATION ROUTES




                                           188
189
190
191
Western zone road map




                        192
          APPENDIX 6.2: SITE SKETCHES FOR THE SELECTED MCCS



                                                                flats
        To town



                  1 KM                     100m
                                   Obs                     Store with
                                  stocks                    s/stocks
                           entrance




                                                                          line
                                                                          Railway
  Site Plan for
  Morogoro
  NHC MCC
                                       office
                         120m




                                      proposed MCC                            station




                                           Contaminated area




Site plan for Morogoro NHC - MOFACU MCC




                                                                        193
     Nairobi Road
                                                                                   Arusha
                                                  9 KM                              Town

                0.5KM                           800m

                                              Research        Store
                         Main Gate             Office         No.5

 Site Plan for MCC                                       Inner Gate                 E
 @TPRI - Arusha                                    C                                m
                                    Offices        h                                pt
                        1200m

                                                          O
                                                   e                                y




                                                                      Stores 2&3
                                                          l
                                                   m                                S
                                                          d
                                                   ic                               p
                                  Offices
                                                   a                                a
                                                          L
                                                    l                               c
                                                          a
                                                   L                                e




                                                                        Store 1
                                                          b
                                                   a
                                                   b
                                Store No. 4         .




Site plan for TPRI Arusha MCC




                                                                                            194
              To Shinyanga
                                                                   farm


                                                      village
                                   100m




  Nzega MCC    60km                                                    farm

                                          6m
                                   50m


                                                                200m
              19km

                                          MCC   28m


                                                                          farm
                Nzega
                Town


Site plan for Nzega – Tabora MCC




                                                                 195
                                                                                                   Estate
                Highland Mbarali Estate                                            10km           quarters
                          trench               staff                                    30m

                     Farms                                              30m
                                           office
                                                                                            MCC   15m
                                           Fish
                                          ponds
                    Mbarali MCC                                         5km

                                                  1km

                                                                                                     grasses

                       Farms

                                           buildings/rice mill
                                                                                   office

                                                 Estate


                                                                 To Rujewa
                                                                 town 16km
       Site layout plan for the MCC at Highlands Mbarali Estate




                                   To DSM 130 Km




                                                                         50m
                                              0.05Km

                                                                            MCC             20m
                                          3Km

                                            Kibiti Town



                                                                 Ruaruke village




                                     To Lindi 357 Km




Site layout plan for the MCC at Kibiti



                                                                                                               196
                                   Indian Ocean


               Sugar plantations




                                                        3km



                                                                                                           MCC


                                                                         Factory
                                                                         blocks


                            Factory
                            Offices
                                                                                            250m



                                                  50m
                                                                                   Stores




                                                        Entrance/Guard

            Zanzibar town 16km                                                              North Unguja




Site layout plan for the MCC at Mahonda in Zanzibar




                                                                                                                 197
   APPENDIX 8.1: SEQUENCE OF DAILY BRIEFING ACTIVITIES AT THE
                       FIELD LEVEL AND FORMS



Twelve (12) blank formats used daily during the entire field operation of the project

   1       Daily progress report format

Daily Progress Report
Store name:                                   Local counterparts and hired labourers
Store no.                                     present

                               Planned activities for today




                           Summary of work completed today




Hours worked:
Hours lost due to delays:
Is the project on schedule:
Any incidents/accidents/near misses:
Details of problems/delays/accidents/Incidents/near misses




Planned operations for tomorrow



Signed:                                       Position:




                                                                                        198
   2      Daily briefing format

                                   Daily briefing sheet
Staff members present                         Absentees:




Date and time:
Given by:
Location:
                                  Previous days progress




                              Principal activities for day




Task based risk            Valuations to risk assessment     PPE requirements
assessment issued          issued




Signed:                                      Position:




                                                                                199
     3.   Daily check list format
                               Project Daily Check-List
Completed by:
Site Number:
Site Name/Location (Zone and Region):
Date:

No.              Item                                 Task            Yes        No
1.        Documentation             Site Inventory
                                    Pesticide Risk Assessments
                                    Site Task Risk Assessments
                                    Resource List
                                    Working Methods
                                    Notification of Store Keeper
                                    Notification of Region/Zone

2.        Working area              Warning Signs
                                    Barriers in place
                                    Decon unit
                                    Fire extinguisher
                                    Protection – floors, walls
                                    Zoning – 1/2/3
                                    First aid kit
                                    Bunded areas
                                    Removal of PPE
                                    Eating/drinking/smoking rules

3.        Worker training           Counterparts
                                    Hired labourers
                                    Drivers

4.        Daily briefing            Regional Administration
                                    Counterparts
                                    Hired labourers
                                    Drivers

5.        [[E (Correct use)
                                    Counterparts
                                    Hired labourers
                                    Visitors
                                                                    Yes     No

6.        Store Keeper              On time
                                    Co-operative
                                    Lost time/delays

7.        Variations to work plan   Delay – reason?




                                                                                  200
No.           Item                            Task            Yes   No
                             Addition material – details
                             Less materials – details

8.    Packages + Labelling   Package numbering correct
      (tractability)
                             Hazard labels
                             List of contents vs. inventory
                             UN marks
                             UN approved containers

9.    Health monitoring      Paramedic on site
                             Local clinic informed/located
                             First and equipment on site
                             Any incident – details
                             Eating, drinking, smoking
                             Water/meal breaks


      Improvement Notice     Complete form giving details
      issued

      Improvement Notice     Complete form giving details
      issued
                                      Comments:




                                                                     201
   4.      Material Safety Data Sheet Format

Pesticide active ingredient:
Pesticide common name:
Pesticide manufacturer:

                                  Reference data
MSDS data available
Pesticide manual data available
WHO Classification
EPA Classification
LD 50
Occupational Exposure Limit (EH 40)

Exposure hazards




Additional hazards – corrosive, flammable, irritant etc.




Protective equipment required




Approved packaging type




Completed by:




                                                           202
   5.        Safe working method

Safe Working Method

Completed by:

Date:

Signature:

1. Introduction


2. Main Activities


3. Equipment


4. Environmental Protection


5. Personal Protection


6. Equipment


7. Reference Documents




                                   203
   6.      Task based risk assessment format

Store number:    Store location:   Chemical present

Main activity:                                                                             Personnel Involved:
  Actions          Frequency         Duration         Contact   Other risks    Current         Additional           Comments
                                                       risks                    control    control measures
                                                                               measures




Completed by:                                                                 Signature:                         Date:
Authorised by:                                                                Signature:                         Date:




                                                                                                                           204
   7.     Weekly progress report format

                                Weekly progress report
Date & time
              Principal tasks undertaken                             Progress




                    Safety issues                            Update risk assessment




                     Variations                                Instruction issued




Operations planned for next week




Signed:                                                  Position:




                                            205
   8.       Mission report format


Location

Personnel

Date

Report

Achievements




Issues/Problems



Actions

Tanzania Obsolete Pesticide Project




                                      206
   9.      Movement of hazardous waste transport-log format

Date:
Completed By:
(Plus Signature)
Departure Location:
(Store Number/Store Name/Zone/Region)
Destination:
(Store Number/Store Name/Zone/Region)
Route:
Time of Departure:
Estimated Time of Arrival:
Transport Company:

Drivers Name:

Names of passengers (essential) passengers only):

Has driver been briefed on rules for carrying pesticides:

Has driver been supplied with pesticide risk assessment cards?

Vehicle Plate Number:

Has drivers license been inspected:
(Attach copy)

Has vehicle service record been provided?
(Attach copy)

Does Vehicle have safety equipment (fire extinguisher etc)?

Escort Vehicle plate number:

Escort Vehicle driver name and passengers:

Does Escort Vehicle have necessary safety equipment?

Radio call sign:

Details of Load:
(Attach list of products, package numbers and a store number)

Drivers Signature:


                                               207
    10.     Cargo list form format

Cargo list from                  To                        Date


  Package         Total No. of        UN Number   Name of packaged pesticide   Store No./
                   Package                                                     Name




                                                    208
11.       Weighing list format
Some            Empty pallet box = 126 kg Tnt pallet = 30 kg Fin
Example:                           pallet=26                       Store Name _______________
No_466
            Empty open head drum=27 kg. Empty closed head
            drum=25.5kg
            Empty salvage drum=35 kg
Package     Type         Un Information          Trade name        Gross    Net     Manufacturer
No.                                                                wt.      wet.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40


                                                      209
      12       Loading list format

Collection Site:
Container Number:
Layer:


No.        Package   Package    Information         Marine      Gross    Net      Remark
           No.       type                           Pollutant   Weight   Weight




                                              210
APPENDIX A: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR SULPHUR STOCKPILE IN TANGA

1. Background information

The inventory of obsolete pesticides in Tanzania revealed that there was about 600 tons of pure
sulfur at GBP site in Tanga. Additionally, there is about 250 tons of contaminated sulphur at the
GBP premises. The GBP site was formerly owned by the defunct Tanganyika Fertilizer
Company (TFA). The stockpile of sulphur in Tanga is privately owned. A large portion of the
pure sulphur was stored inside of a large godown. The contaminated sulphur is mostly lying
outside of the godown. Plates 1.0 show the sulphur that was stored inside godown while Plate
2.0 depicts the contaminated sulfur that is lying outside outside the godown respectively. The
identified sulphur is classified as of low risk product based on the risk profile provided by the
Pesticide Stock Management System (PSMS).




Plate 1.0 : Sulphur inside the GBP Godown




                                              211
Plate 1.2: Contaminated Sulphur outside the GBP Godown


The consultant was requested to prepare an environmental assessment and EMP for sulphur in
Tanga to be included as an Appendix to the CESA report. The following were the main terms of
reference.

   1.   Prepare safeguarding disposal options for the sulphur
   2.   Indicate strategic Environmental Mitigation Plan for the site
   3.   Develop an estimated budget for the remediation of the site
   4.   Prepare a report for the sulphur stock at Tanga site as separate Appendix to the main
        CESA report

2. Exiting situation
During field survey in Tanga it was found that the owner of sulphur had secured a market for the
chemical. Minjingu Fertilizer Company located in Manyara Region has bought the whole
uncontaminated sulphur stockpile for fertilizer production.           During February 2010,
uncontaminated sulphur inside the godown was being repackaged into 50 kg bags ready to be
transported to Minjingu Fertilizer Company. Plate 3 shows sulphur inside the GBP store being
repackaged into 50 kg bags while Plate 4 shows sulphur sacks neatly stacked ready for
transportation to Minjingu Fertilizer Company.




                                              212
Plate 3: Sulphur placed on the floor inside GBP store in the process of being repackaged




Plate 4: Sulphur already repackaged in 50 kg sacks in GBP store


After the completion of repackaging process all Sulphur inside the godown except for about 20
bags were transported to Minjingu Fertilizer Company to be used for fertilizer production.
However, about 250 tons of contaminated sulphur, mostly outside the godown still remains at the
site. Plate 5 shows an empty section of the godown after the removal of the sulphur. Plate 6
shows the remaining bags of repackaged sulphur and Plate 7 and 8 shows contaminated sulphur
inside and outside the godown.




                                              213
Plate 5: An empty section of the godown after the removal of sulphur




                                             214
Plate 6: Contaminated sulphur mixed with packaging material inside the godown




Plate 7: Remaining contaminated sulphur outside the godown




                                            215
Considering the recent development of the removal of sulphur from the site, the activities
proposed in the TOR cannot fully be implemented. The measures outlined in the following
section are the proposed for the safe disposal of the remnants of the contaminated sulphur.

3. Disposal options

The options for the disposal of what remains of the sulphur stocks originally stored at the GPB
site in Tanga have been considered in the light of the fact that what needs to be disposed of is not
pure sulphur but rather sulphur – contaminated soil and packaging materials. The practical
implication of this is that the safety, public health, and environmental needs for the disposal
technology and the accompanying strategies and operations will not be as stringent as they would
have been for pure sulfur.

The technology and practical options which are most appropriate and cost-effective for disposing
of the contaminated sulfur and packaging materials are: i) on-site containment by land filling and
capping; and ii) off-site containment by landfilling and capping.


3.1 On-site containment by land filling

The on-site containment option constitutes the following technological aspects and operations:

STEP 1
Excavation of the area containing contaminated sulfur at the GPB site.

STEP 2
Lining the bottom and sides of the containment facility with appropriate encasement and capping
materials.

STEP 3
Placing the contaminated sulphur into the containment facility.

STEP 4
Covering contaminated sulphur with appropriate encasing and capping materials.

STEP 5
Paving the top part of the containment site with asphalt or Portland cement concrete so that the
site can continue to be used as driveways or parking lots. The covered containment site can even
be built upon provided appropriate safety measures are observed during use.




                                                216
3.2    Off-site containment by landfilling and capping.

The off-site containment option constitutes using an available naturally formed land fill area or
making one away from the GPB site. Other aspects of the off-site containment option are similar
to the ones for the on-site containment option.

In both options (that is; on-site containment and that of off-site containment, the following
encasing and capping specifications are recommended:

Bottom encasement and capping provision: A 300 mm thick inner layer (in contact with the
buried sulphur – contaminated materials) of compacted clay and crushed limestone mixture plus
a 300 mm thick outer layer made up of a mixture of sawdust and crushed limestone.

Sides encasement and capping provision: A 300 mm thick inner layer (in contact with the
buried sulphur – contaminated materials) of compacted clay and crushed limestone mixture plus
a 300 mm thick outer layer made up of a mixture of sawdust and crushed limestone.


Top encasement, capping and pavement provision: An inner layer (in contact with the buried
sulphur – contaminated materials) of 300 mm thick compacted clay, a 150 mm thick middle
layer of fine aggregate (sand), and 150 mm thick Portland cement or asphalt concrete paved top
layer.

The containment provision will cover a single site with area dimensions of about 8.35 m by 20 m
or two separate sites each covering 8.35 m by 10 m. As such, the buried materials will extend to
an effective depth of only 1m. The whole containment structure will extend to a total depth of
2.2 m.

The main advantage of on-site containment by landfilling and capping is that it precludes the
need for acquiring a separate containment site and the attendant hassle of addressing initial
environmental assessment and operational environmental management needs. The main
advantage of off-site containment is that it offers several options from which the eventual site for
the containment facility can be chosen.




                                                217
APPENDIX B:
     TERMS OF REFERENCES FOR COUNTRY-PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL AND
     SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (CESA), AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
                                   (EMP)

1.      Background

Tanzania is one of the countries in Africa that is critically affected by accumulation of obsolete
pesticides. An indicative inventory was conducted by the Government of the United Republic
of Tanzania in 1997/98, through the National Environment Management Council (NEMC).
About 1200 metric tons of obsolete pesticides were identified. The stocks are scattered in over
350 stores countrywide, and in most cases these stocks can be considered as posing a direct
threat to human health and the environment.

The obsolete pesticide stocks include over 30% of organo-chlorinated products, notably DDT,
which are classified among the Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs).

The Government of the United Republic of Tanzania is fully aware that a definite and
environmentally sound disposal solution is required for the obsolete pesticides stocks in the
country. The cost of a full disposal plan is beyond the country’s financial and technical capacities
for the full implementation of an international disposal operation.

In view of this, an official appeal for assistance from the international donor community was
made by the Government during the FAO Third Consultation on Prevention and Disposal of
Obsolete Pesticides Stocks which was held in Rome in March 1998.

Tanzania was subsequently included among the first seven countries to benefit from the
financing through the Africa Stockpiles Programme (ASP) funded by GEF and other multilateral
donors; other countries being Ethiopia, South Africa, Mali, Morocco, Tunisia and Nigeria.

Tanzania has been selected for support under ASP–P1 because it meets the following ASP-P1
agreed upon readiness criteria: (a) ratified the Stockholm and Basel Conventions (b) is a priority
country in terms of the volume of obsolete pesticides (c) has established a Project Coordination
Team and completed an Operational Manual to implement the project and (d) project finance has
been secured for project implementation.

The National Environment Management Council (NEMC) which is within the Vice President’s
Office (Environmental Affairs) is the executing agency for ASP – Tanzania. The Programme is
managed through a Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by Project Coordinator. Other key
staff members include two field managers, a prevention coordinator seconded from the Ministry
of Agriculture, Technical Advisor for disposal, Monitoring and Evaluation Officer and
Communication Officer. Six agriculture zonal coordinators coordinate with the ASP PMU in
project implementation on part time (or on as needed) basis. A procurement specialist is also
available on call basis.

                                                218
A steering committee is set up to oversee ASP implementation in the country. The Committee
comprises members from the following key institutions: (1) Vice Presidents Office (Chair); (2)
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security (Vice Chair), (3) NEMC (Secretary) (4) Occupational
Safety and Health Authority (OSHA); (5)Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI); (6)
Government Chemist Laboratory Agency; (7) Department of Environment (Zanzibar) (8)
Tanzania Ports Authority (9) Commission for Agriculture, Research and Extension, Zanzibar;
and (10) Focal Point for the Basel and Stockholm Convention based at the Division of
Environment. A parallel Forum is set up to include members from NGOs, Civil Society
Organizations and Intergovernmental organizations.

As a key part of the implementation of the ASP, a Country-project Environmental and Social
Assessment (CESA) is required as a condition for disbursement for obsolete pesticides disposal
services.

These TORs were prepared in accordance to the Guidance Note on the Preparation of the
Country-Project Environment and Social Assessments (CESA), November 2008, which include a
detailed presentation of the World Bank safeguard policy requirements. The project’s potential
adverse environmental impacts are principally related to pesticide storage, handling,
transportation, disposal and site remediation activities in country operations. Because of their
significance, the project is classified as Environmental Category A. The project triggers two of
the World Bank’s safeguard policies: OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessments, which requires
the preparation of a CESA, and OP 4.09 on Pest Management which require a Pest Management
Plan (PMP). Since the project itself meets the requirements of a PMP, there will be no need to
prepare a self-standing document. The applicability of two additional policies OP 4.12 on
Involuntary Resettlement and OP 4.04 on Natural Habitats will need to be evaluated on a case by
case basis, as it is conceivable that project implementation may affect established access rights of
people to contaminated sites, or include activities that represent a significant risk on natural
habitats. The CESA will determine whether or not these policies need to be triggered, and if so,
incorporate adequate mitigation measures.


2.     Aims and Objectives

The CESA is a critical component of all Africa Stockpiles Programme (ASP) country projects.
In accordance with the GEF Trust Fund Grant agreement (TF056693), there is a legal
requirement for Tanzania to complete a CESA and Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
before any funds can be released for the safeguarding and disposal of any obsolete stocks. The
CESA and the EMP should be considered as tools to assist Tanzania during project
implementation.

Whereas the CESA aims to clarify what needs to be done at the country level to address the
problems faced from obsolete pesticides and associated wastes, the EMP provides detailed
information on how any safeguarding and disposal will be completed and who will do it. Put in
another way, the CESA allows Tanzania to define the detailed scope of the problem faced from
obsolete pesticides and to develop the strategy for addressing the problems. The EMP should

                                                219
provide the detailed methodologies for removing the problem in a safe and environmentally
sound manner.

3.     Aims of the CESA

To achieve the aims as stated above it is necessary to provide clarification on the aims and
objectives of the CESA. The CESA is a decision making tool to allow the government of
Tanzania to make objective decisions in key areas related to the implementation of ASP. In
respect to the ASP the CESA aims to:

       Provide data on the inter-relationship between the locations where pesticides are stored
       and the broader environment in the country;
       Prioritise storage locations based on the risk posed to public health and the environment;
       Allow the government to make decisions on the strategy to be adopted for the
       safeguarding of obsolete pesticides (repackaging, transport and storage);
       Allow the country to select the most appropriate disposal strategy for the waste identified
       at the inventory stage based on an assessment of national capacity to treat wastes in an
       environmentally sound manner;
       Factor in any social issues as determined during the assessment of the inventory data and
       identify any locations where resettlement of inhabitants may be required (temporary or
       long term).

These Terms of References provide a minimum requirement for the government to comply with
the World Bank safeguards policy. Additional studies and information related to improving
general environmental awareness and chemicals management may be proposed subject to
availability of additional funding.

4.     Scope

The CESA can be considered as a tool to illustrate the inter-relationship between the human and
physical geography of the country and the locations where obsolete pesticides and associated
contaminated materials are found. In addition to demonstrating the relationship between these
factors the CESA also looks to examine the institutional setting in which the problem is set. The
CESA should consolidate a very diverse set of factors influencing the implementation of a
safeguarding and disposal project and then allow the government to make objective decisions on
how to address the risks posed by obsolete pesticides in a safe and environmentally sound
manner.


5.     Contents

The CESA shall follow the table of contents presented below:

Executive Summary
Section 1.     Country Setting


                                              220
Section 2.    Policy, Legal, and Institutional Framework
Section 3.    Baseline Data
Section 4.    Environmental and Social Impacts
Section 5.    Environmental Management Plan
Section 6.    Analysis of Alternatives
Section 7.    Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan.
Section 8.    Environmental Management Training Requirements

       APPENDICES

       List of Tables
       List of Figures
       List of Annexes

       Appendix    A   List of EA Preparer
       Appendix    B   List of References
       Appendix    C   Record of Interagency Forum/Consultation Meetings
       Appendix    D   Site Specific Environmental Management Plans (EMPs)

A more detailed description of each section is provided below.

Section 1: Country Setting

Data indicating “sensitive? areas should be presented and complement the
information already collected by the PMU (see below).     This to include
information on aspects such as:

       World and National Heritage sites;
       National Parks;
       Wetlands;
       Sensitive areas due to topography;
       Areas of importance with regard to biodiversity (both fauna and flora);
       Centres of population (with size);
       Distribution of major hospitals and clinics with capacity to deal with
       poisoning;
       Any other “special? areas.

Tanzania administratively is divided into 26 regions of which 21 are found in Tanzania Mainland
while 5 are in Zanzibar. The country geographically is characterized by varying climatic
conditions from semi arid, grasslands to heavy rainfall areas. Moreover the country has different
topographic conditions. This varies from low land areas to range of mountains. This situation is
vital to be taken under consideration during the ASP operation especially during transportation
of obsolete pesticides, taking under consideration the road condition which is not all tarmac.
                                              221
In all the 21 regional headquarters and districts in Tanzania Mainland, there are government
hospitals which can be used during the operation in case there is accident of exposure to
pesticides for operational team.

WORLD/NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS AND NATIONAL PARKS

Tanzania is one the countries in the world that has a large number of heritable areas including
national parks and game reserves.

The presence of these areas has to be taken into account during the ASP operation so that it
should not be disturbed and/or in case of spillage or accident during transportation of obsolete
pesticides, emergency measures should be taken. Some of the roads pass through the National
parks, like Dar es Salaam to Mbeya road which passes through Mikumi National park.

Some of the heritable national parks and Game reserves are as elaborated below.




                                              222
Arusha National Park

Arusha National Park covers an area of about 137 km2. It is located near Arusha town
between the peaks of Mountains Kilimanjaro and Meru. The park and town derive their name
from the Wa-Arusha people who traditionally lived in this area. The Ngurdoto Crater,
Momela Lakes, the highland montane forest, and the rugged mount Meru (about 4575 m
above the sea level) are the four distinctive features of the park. The Park has a wealth of
wildlife including colobus monkeys, velvet monkeys, bushbacks, buffaloes, red forest duikers,
hippos, elephants and giraffes. Bird life especially waterfowl is abundant and interesting.


Gombe National Park
Situated 16 km, north of Kigoma town in western Tanzania. Gombe National park occupies
52 Km2 of land. The beauty of Gombe National Park is unique; it is a park without roads,
where you can walk and experience nature with all your senses. Due to its altitude, the park's
vegetation varies from evergreen forests of tall trees to open woodlands and grassland.
Common mammals found in the park are forest species mostly primates. These include
chimpanzees, baboons, blue monkeys, red tailed monkeys and red colobus monkeys. In a
sense, the park is indeed an island of wilderness surrounded on three sides by cultivation and
on the north by the lake.

Katavi National Park
Covering an area of 2253 km2 Katavi National Park is located in Mpanda Districts, Rukwa
Region about 40 km south east of Mpanda town. The park is famous for its undisturbed
natural face compared to other parks in the country. Major features of attraction include Lake
Katavi with its vast short grass flood plains in the north, palm fringed Lake Chada in the
Southeast and Katuma River. Animals found in the park: include zebras, sable and roan
antelopes, elands, leopard, elephants, buffalos and lions. Waterfowls also abound.

Kilimanjaro National Park
With an area of 756 km2, Kilimanjaro National Park exists to preserve Mount Kilimanjaro's
outstanding scenic features and its flora and fauna. At an altitude of 5895 m above mean sea
level, Mount Kilimanjaro is the highest mountain in Africa, the highest freestanding mountain
in the world and one of the largest volcanoes ever to burst through the earth's crust.
Attractive features include one extinct volcano, Shira (3962m) and two dormant volcanoes
peaks, Mawenzi (5149 m) and Kibo (5895 m).

Also, significant numbers of mammals, birds and insects inhabit the area. Mammals include
elephants, buffalos, elands, duikers, leopards, baboons, blue monkeys and black and white
colobus monkeys. The park is also frequented with colorful birds.

Lake Manyara National Park
Located 125 km west of Arusha town, under the wall of the Great Rift Valley. The park is
about 330 km2 in size of which Lake Manyara covers 230 km2. It contains a large variety of
habitats such as the rift wall, the ground water forest, Acacia woodland, area of open
grassland, to mention but a few; thus being able to support large number of species. The most

                                               223
famous spectacle in the park is the tree-climbing lions, which are occasionally seen along
branches of Acacia trees. Other animals found in this area include elephants, leopard, impala,
hippos as well as millions of birds (pelicans and flamingos).
Lake Manyara National Park has the highest population of elephants per square km in the
country.

Ngorongoro Crater
This remarkable and world famous geographic feature is a "caldera"- a collapsed volcano.
There are several prides of lion, and some of the last surviving rhino to be found in Tanzania.
The alkaline soda lake is home to huge flocks of flamingos, a remarkable and unforgettable
sight. The whole crater has a quite unique almost magical atmosphere.

Also there is place called Oldvai gorge found in Ngorongoro crater, which is a historical site
considered as a seat of humanity after the discovery of the earliest specimen of the human
genus, Homo habilis

Tarangire National Park
Covering approximately 2600 km2, Tarangire National Park is second, only the Ngorongoro
Crater, in the concentrations of wildlife to be seen, in the dry season. It lies to the south of
large open grass plains of southern Maasai land, 115 km from Arusha along the Arusha-
Dodoma road. The features of Tarangire which correlate with the type of animals residing in
the area are grassland and flood plains. Tarangire is commonly famous for its tree-climbing
pythons, zebras, hartebeests, elephants, buffalos, waterbucks, gazelles, oryx and abundant
birdlife.

Ruaha National Park
Covering an area of 10,300 km2, Ruaha National Park is the second largest park in Tanzania.
Ruaha National Park lies in the central part of Tanzania just west of Iringa highlands is also
the second largest elephant sanctuary in the country, next to Selous Game Reserve. The game
animals found here are herds of elephant and buffalo. The exciting Great Ruaha River features
are larger number of hippos and crocodiles. During the dry season the river attracts great
number of game; giraffe, warthog and eland. In the plains, ostrich, cheetah and Grant's
Gazelle can be seen. The park offers a paradise of the outstanding natural world as it lies
within a belt which interface species of Fauna and Flora of southern and northern Africa.

Serengeti National Park
The Serengeti National Park with 14763 km2 is one of the largest wildlife sanctuaries in the
world and it is the site of one of the most breathtaking events in the animal kingdom, the
migration of thousands of wildebeest. It was accepted by the World Heritage Convention as a
World Heritage Site and Biosphere Reserve in 1981. about 320 km from Arusha town. Park
has large number of species of plain animals, from a hare to the elephant and a wonderful
selection of birdlife.




                                                224
Mikumi National Park

The park occupies an area of about 3237 squre km . It is found im Mkata river plain bordered
by the Ukuguru mountain range to the esat and Rubebo mountains to the west.The most
attractive wild life animals includes: buffaloes, elephants, giraffe, zebra, wildebeestsa nad
wild dogs to mention the few. The park is passed by the main road, the Dar es Salaam
Tunduma. Therefore great precausions has to be taken during the transportation of stocks
from the Southern highlands zone to Dar es Saalaam port which will be used as an exit point.

Selous National Reserve

This reserve is one of the most remote and least visited game park in Africa. It occupies an
area of about 15 000 square miles and it is the largest world game reserve. Interesting
uniqueness of the game is that can be explored by boat sailing,through swamps and lagoons. It
has the world’s largest big games which includes, elephants, buffaloes, rhinoceros and it
contains African’s concentration of hippopotamus, crocodiles and wild dogs



WETLANDS

Tanzania has a great number of wetlands which serves as a source of different resources to
the communities like water, food, herbs. This wetlands includes rivers, lakes and swamps.

Some of the important wetlands of Tanzania includes, Lake Victoria, Tanganyika, Manyara
and Lake Nyasa. Rivers include River Ruvu, Pangani, Kagera and Kilombero, just to mention
a few. In view of this, great precaution should be taken to avoid spillage or any other accident
which can cause a lot of problems to the community during ASP implementation especially
when transporting the stocks.


5
Section 2: Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework

Much of this work is already included in the ASP Operational Manual. The Consultant in
consultation with the ASP-Project Management Unit (PMU) should compile a complete set of all
relevant government policies, decrees and regulations that could potentially impact on the
implementation of the ASP. Areas of focus should include:

       National waste management legislation;
       National transport of hazardous goods regulations;
       Environmental assessment / impact regulations;
       Permitting of works; and so forth.

The text should note that the CESA is being prepared in strict compliance with requirements of
the country environmental regulations regarding Environmental Assessment, World Bank

                                               225
Operational Policy (OP 4.01) on Environmental Assessment, and requirements of any co-
financing institutions.

In addition, the relevance of the three Chemical Conventions (Basel, Rotterdam and Stockholm)
to the proposed works should be explained. This should include a statement indicating that the
disposal process will assist the country in meeting its obligations to remove POPs pesticides as
required under the Stockholm Convention.

Here under is the status of the three chemical conventions which has been ratified by the
Government of the United Republic of Tanzania.




S/N   CONVENTION       YEAR OF          DESIGNATED NATIONAL AUTHORITY (DNA)
                       RATIFICATION
1     Basel            1993             Division of Environment in the Vice President’s
                                        Office

3     Rotterdam        2002                     For pesticides: Ministry of Agriculture, Food
                                                Security and Cooperatives
                                                For consumer and industrial chemicals:
                                                Government Chemist Laboratory Agency

4     Stockholm        2004                 Division of Environment in the Vice President’s
                                            Office




Tanzania has also relevant legislations applicable to CESA. Among others, include the
following:
       Environmental Management Act (2004)
       Plant protection Act (1997)
       Public Health ordinance (1954)
       Occupational health and Safety Act (2003)
       Industrial and consumer chemicals Act (2003)
       Urban authority Act (1982)
       Local government Act (1982)
       Water utilization control and regulation (1974)
       Surface and Marine Transport Authority (SUMATRA)
       Merchant and shipping Act (1967)

In terms of the Institutional arrangements for implementation of the ASP in general and the
CESA in particular, responsibilities for mitigation and monitoring should be defined along with
arrangements for information flow, especially for coordination between agencies responsible for

                                              226
mitigation. This is especially important since this project requires cross-sector and cross-
institutional integration. The CESA shall identify the key stakeholders responsibilities for the
mitigating and monitoring measures, of implementation, training, financing, and reporting.
Institutional arrangements should also be crafted to maintain support for agreed enforcement
measures for environmental protection. (see table C in annex 1)


Section 3: Baseline Data

The section should include:

       A summary of any previous waste management and pesticide disposal initiatives;
       A statement on the causes of accumulation as identified by previous studies;
       All PSMS data related to the pesticide stores in the country, including the plot of
       Environmental and Pesticide Risk Factors (FE and FP);
       A preliminary register of all contaminated sites;
       An assessment of national management capacity to complete a national safeguarding
       operation;
       An assessment of current disposal capacity in the country to determine the potential for
       local treatment of the wastes as identified at inventory.


Previous disposal initiatives: The government of Tanzania has taken successful initiatives with
regard to disposal of obsolete stocks. The following are among the initiatives:

       In 1986, SIDA provided assistance to repack a large quantity of pesticides at Vikuge, in
       Coastal Region, where over 200 tons including large amount of DDT were repacked.
       In 1995, The Netherlands Government funded the removal of 300 tons of hazardous
       waste from the Island of Zanzibar and Pemba which was incinerated in the UK.
       In 1995, The German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) provided assistance to
       incinerate 57 tons of Dinitro-o-Cresol (DNOC) at Wazo cement kiln
       During 1997/98 The Government of the Netherlands funded a national-wide inventory of
       obsolete pesticides and veterinary wastes, whereby about 1200 metric tons were found
       scattered in about 350 sites all over the country.

       In 2003, FAO and USAID supported Tanzania in emergency safeguarding of six high
       risk sites. The safeguarded sites are highlighted below:

       Vingunguti
       The store is located in Dar es Salaam, about 8 km from the city centre. The site was
       posing a potential threat to human health and the environment, since it is close to a
       densely populated residential area.

       Korogwe
       Korogwe site is located at Old Korogwe in Tanga Region about 400 km from Dar es
       Salaam. The store was very close to the river Pangani and 100m from a bore hole which

                                              227
      is a source of water for Old Korogwe residents, hence was posing threat to human health
      and environment. About 85metric tones of DDT was safeguarded.

      In January 2008, The Germany Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ), cleaned up the
      Korogwe site, where by 85 tons of DDT and 25 tons of contaminated materials was
      removed and shipped for incineration in Germany. This exercise was also used as a field
      training for ASP PMU members and casual labour.


      TPRI
      The site is found in Arusha region about 700 Km from Dar es Salaam. It is located within
      the premises of Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI). About 4000 lts of DNOC
      was repacked in salvage drums. The site was posing threat to population within the TPRI
      offices and residents.

      Mbarali Site
      This is found in Mbarali rice farm in Mbeya, about 800km from Dar es Salaam and 16
      km from the Dar es Salaam- Tunduma road, junction from Igawa. The site was very close
      to irrigation canal and about 30 meters from fish ponds. The site was posing a serious
      threat to human health and the environment. About 4110kg of ketazine, 12.50kg of BHD
      and 2112.25kg of BHC was repacked in salvage drums and stored.

      Morogoro Site
      This is found in Morogoro region about 200km from Dar es Salaam. This contains three
      stores as shown here under:

      Store A.
      Owned by Morogoro Agriculture office. 20 empty containers of 50lts size were crushed
      and repacked in salvage drums.

      Store B.
      Also owned by Morogoro Agriculture office. About 25 empty containers of 50lts size
      were manually crushed and repacked in salvage drums.

      Site C, Tanzania Link
      The site is very close to a railway station in Morogoro, owned by the National Housing
      Corporation. The site contained two main stores and one old formulation plant. About 18
      tons of technical DDT was found but safeguarding was not completed due to lack of
      equipment and appropriate PPE.


Linking CESA to inventory taking:

The critical aspects of obsolete stock identification require knowledge of products,
manufacturers, trade names and synonyms, when they were manufactured, how they were used
and who used them.

                                            228
For the purpose of the environmentally sound disposal of these obsolete stocks, a more specific
and complete inventory is being finalised in Tanzania. The TSU of FAO developed a database,
Pesticide Stock Management System (PSMS), an interactive process that will allow each country
to record all obsolete pesticides storage sites, contents and characteristics. Tanzania, as one of
the participating ASP countries, will have access to this database and will get the necessary
training by the TSU, FAO. The following paragraphs provide more detailed guidance.

Inventories are an important tool for identifying, quantifying and characterizing wastes. A
national inventory may be used to:

   (a)        Establish a baseline quantity of products
   (b)        Establish an information registry that assists with safety and regulatory inspections;
   (c)        Obtain accurate information needed to draw up a plan for Safeguarding and site
              stabilization;
   (d)        Assist with the preparation of emergency response plans; and
   (e)        Track progress to minimize and phase-out these chemicals.


Section 4: Environmental and Social Impacts

Based on the General Country Setting presented in Section 1 and the baseline pesticide data
presented in Section 3, the Consultant shall provide the following assessment of the
Environmental and Social Impacts:

         A list of the high risk locations with a summary analysis of the principle factors which
         make them a risk to either public health and / or the environment;
         An assessment of the potential impacts from the locations based on their proximity to and
         inter-relationship with the broader environment;
         Indication of any locations where permanent or temporary resettlement may be needed to
         allow the safeguarding operation to proceed.

Particular attention shall be paid to discussing potential health and safety impacts to local
populations and workers involved with project implementation.


Section 5: Environnemental Management Plan (EMP)

The World Bank’s Operational Policy (OP4.01) identifies EMPs as an essential feature of
Category A projects. Specific requirements relating to EMPs are set out in Annex C of the
Bank’s OP 4.01. A two stage approach will be adopted for the preparation of the EMP.

The first stage shall be to take the information collected in Sections 1 – 4 and provide details on
how the potential risk posed by the obsolete pesticides will be reduced / eliminated. This will be
presented as the following outputs:


                                                229
   i.      Safeguarding Strategy

The safeguarding strategy will need to address the following issues:

           The risk based prioritisation of the stores and geo-political regions:
           Based on the data and information obtained and gathered during inventory, the PMU
           in collaboration with the CESA Consultant shall make risk prioritization of the stores.

           Who will complete the safeguarding (national staff, contractor or both),
           according to the level of risks (low, medium and high risk sites):
           The consultant shall evaluate the options, i.e. safeguarding for low risk sites by the
           national staff members coordinated by PMU, while high risk sites would be
           completed by the disposal service contractor in close collaboration with the PMU, or
           all safeguarding by the disposal service contractor. This will depend much on the
           information and data obtained during the ongoing inventory undertaking and CESA.
           The consultant will need to note the gaps in the analysis.

           Where will the safeguarding be completed (at the original location, or at a collection
           centre);
           Where will the safeguarded stocks be stored and how will the stores be managed;
           How and who, will transport the stocks to the collection point, and transport from
           collection centre to point of export, and the final disposal facility.

        The consultant should note that:
        Depending on the condition of the stocks and the site, safeguarding activities will be
        undertaken starting from the original location by repackaging and, if need be at the
        collection centres. The stocks will be stored at the collection centres to be identified at
        each zone. The number of collection centres will depend on the amount of stocks found
        in each zone. The store at the main collection centres will be guarded using security
        guards to be contracted by PMU. Stocks awaiting final disposal will be managed by the
        disposal service contractor. Based on the option retained above, the PMU may or may
        not be responsible for coordinating the repackaging of stocks at original locations and
        transport them to the collection centres. From the collection centres up to the point of
        export, and hence to the final disposal facility, the work will be done by the disposal
        company in close supervision and monitoring by the PMU, NGOs and other relevant
        governmental institutions.

        During repackaging and transportation of the obsolete pesticides, maximum safety and
        security will need to be observed. The consultant will define the measures needed to
        ensure that potential impact to health, public safety and environment is minimized and
        that appropriate safeguarding equipment is identified in case of emergency caused by
        accident or spillage.

        Support and training will be provided to the country team by the TSU and the World
        Bank Safeguard Unit to allow them to make objective decisions. The Consultant should
        provide recommendations that will guide the government to make decisions on the level

                                               230
         of involvement necessary during the safeguarding stage i.e. to actually implement the
         safeguarding with national government staff or to supervise the completion of the works
         by external contractors. The consultant will conduct with the PMU a SWOT (Strengths,
         Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats) analysis of various options which must be
         considered in Tanzanian context as defined by the inventory.

   ii.      Disposal Strategy

The disposal strategy will need to address the following issues:

              A detailed analysis of the waste streams to be dealt with as part of the ASP;
              An assessment of national capacity to deal with waste streams;
              Selection of preferred disposal options based on the waste streams and their
              respective volumes / amounts, current national capacity to deal with each waste
              stream and barriers to implementation of a national disposal option;
              Development of tender bid documents to allow for selection of an environmentally
              sound disposal option.

The process of developing a disposal strategy does allow for prioritisation of waste streams as
defined at the inventory stage. The risk based assessment of all locations and assessment of the
potential for materials to adversely affect human health and / or the environment is a key factor
in the ASP CESA process.

The second stage will be to prepare the actual EMP, by assessing the risks related to the
implementation of the safeguarding and disposal strategy above, and making sure that adequate
mitigation measures are in place.

The Environmental Management Plan will be developed by the consultant in close collaboration
with the PMU and include: (a) the potentially significant risk associated to the critical activities
(repackaging, transport, storage and disposal) (b) the proposed mitigating actions; (c) when the
action is to be taken (start and finish dates or ongoing); (d) who will be responsible for
implementing the mitigating action during project operation; and (e) associated costs for the
mitigation measures.

The assessment of risks and mitigation actions should focus on following major areas: a) Health
and safety, b) Environmental Protection, c) Equipment, d) Public Consultation, e) Management
and Planning, f) Sustainability (capacity building and skills transfer), g) Budget planning

An EMP for each risk category site will be prepared: low risks, medium risks and high risks, and
presented in the table format provided in annex 1. The consultant shall also mention any risk and
mitigation measure that would be specific to certain risk sites.

Based on the above it is important that the EMP shall be prepared by personnel who are:

   a. Independent EA experts not affiliated with the project
   b. Competent to complete the preparation of the document;

                                                231
   c. Able to train the operational staff who will implement the plan as presented in the EMP;
   d. Familiar with the implementation of projects in the developing country context.

Finally, the EMP should be considered as a tool to enable project managers, supervisors and
technicians to implement difficult projects under challenging conditions with no impact on
human health and the environment.

The EMP will provide a basis for the development of the detailed and site specific operational
health and safety plans which will be the responsibility of the disposal contractor.

The Health, Safety and Environment Plan (HSE Plan) aims to provide the detailed
methodologies and process to be completed to safely eliminate the problem. In short the HSE
Plan will:

    Provide a detailed, site specific methodology for the safe handling of the stocks as
     identified at inventory;
    Make objective decisions regarding worker and environmental protection during field
     operations based analysis of the inventory / PSMS data;
    Detail the system of worker supervision and training to ensure all field operations are
     completed to the highest standards of Health, Safety and Environment set at the ASP
     Programme level;

The ASP PMU may wish to complete a site specific HSE Plans for additional stores identified at
inventory if the country team in consultation with the TSU decide that they pose a specific risk
which needs a detailed management plan. All other sites will be safeguarded based on the
principles of the EMP and HSE Plan at a generic level. Typically, such lower risk locations will
be safeguarded after all the high risk locations are finished. As such, the management and
workers responsible for safeguarding should have developed a level of competence to apply the
EMP and HSE Plan methodologies as a standard approach.


Section 6: Analysis of Alternatives
Any proposed course of action and mitigation plan will have alternatives. This section of the
CESA should outline the rationale behind selecting the Safeguarding and Disposal strategies
presented in Section 5 in preference to any alternative scenarios. All options will be presented in
terms of Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Risks and must be considered in the
Tanzanian context as defined by the inventory.

                  Strengths         Weaknesses         Opportunities     Threats
Preferred
options
Alternative 1
Alternative 2
Alternative 2




                                               232
Section 7: Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan

Implementation schedule and reporting procedures:

The timing, frequency and duration of mitigation measures and monitoring should be included in
an implementation schedule, showing phasing and coordination with procedures in the overall
project implementation /operations manual. Linkages should be specified where implementation
of mitigation measures is tied to institutional strengthening and to the project legal agreements,
e.g. as conditions for Grant effectiveness or disbursement. Procedures for providing information
on the progress and results of mitigation and monitoring measures should also be clearly stated.
Recipients of such information should include those with responsibility for ensuring timely
implementation of mitigation measures and for undertaking remedial actions. In addition, the
structure, content and timing of reporting to the Bank should be designed to facilitate supervision
and the Task Managing Team should establish arrangements for the timely receipt of monitoring
reports and their forwarding to the FAO TSU and to the Bank’s environment specialists for
review and comments (see table C in annex 1).

Environmental monitoring plan

The consultant shall prepare an Environmental monitoring plan due to that environmental
monitoring during implementation of the safeguarding and disposal strategies is critical. The
activities of the ASP should in no way result in a worsening of the environmental situation in a
country. This is linked to the key ASP indicators as presented in the Grant Agreement. A
combination of indicators and milestones will need to be developed to ensure that the overall
effect of implementing the ASP reduces risks on the environment and on public health. Typical
indicators will include:
         Tracking of the national risk factor from obsolete pesticides (as defined in the FAO
         EMTK Volume 1);
         Reporting on spills, leakages, accidents, injuries during safeguarding and disposal.

By setting a clear set of indicators for the disposal component of the ASP it will be possible to
demonstrate that the project has complied with all standards set at the programme level. The
implementation of the monitoring plan will need to include supervision missions and audits from
a number of key players including the TSU and World Bank, and possibly an independent
monitor to be hired by the PMU.

Social Monitoring Plan

The consultant shall prepare a social monitoring plan since potential impacts on local
communities need to be regularly monitored. Although current information indicates that
pesticides are usually stored away from people, the project may identify situations when
proximity of pesticide stores to people would raise concerns for their health and safety over time.
Similarly, a need may arise during implementation to condemn certain sites or structures
(warehouses, district back offices that might have been used for storage, etc.) as being too
contaminated to merit clean-up. A related issue may be dealing with the historically

                                               233
contaminated water sources, particularly wells. In those situations, compensation and re-housing,
or the reconstruction of certain offices or other buildings, may be needed, regardless whether the
need arose from legacy contamination from before the project period or from project activities.


Section 8: Environmental and Social Management Training Requirements

Any training requirements associated with implementing and maintaining the mitigation and
monitoring plans should be presented in detail including associated costs (see table format in
annex 1). In addition, the overall institutional capabilities for environmental and social
management should be evaluated, and if necessary, a broader program of institutional
strengthening should be prepared (e.g., laboratory facilities and training for pesticide
trace/residue analysis, implementation of Resettlement Plans).

6. Qualification of personnel and proposed team
    - The CESA will be prepared by a consultant firm with the following experience:
    - Environmental management,
    - Hazardous waste management, esp. related to POPs,, and pesticides
    - Disposal technology assessment
    - Container management
    - If resettlement is triggered an expert on this topic is needed.

The firm shall have to prepare the final CESA report, and EMP, which will be reviewed by the
PMU to ensure that it meets the country requirements. The final report will be presented to
relevant stakeholders through a national workshop as a part of the public consultation process,
including any national approval requirement and to the World Bank. After consultation, the
consultant will incorporate comments and complete all edits to prepare a final draft, which will
be submitted to the WB for non objection. The consulting firm will therefore be expected to
provide personnel with the necessary report writing and presentation skills.

A minimum of 8 years of experience is required, as well as similar experience in Africa.
Collaboration with national experts will be endeavoured.

The total experts’ inputs for the study should not exceed 18 staff weeks during a 4 months
period.


7. Proposed Methodology for the study


The CESA will be prepared in accordance with the guidance provided in the Guidance Note on
the Preparation of the Country-Project Environment and Social Assessments (CESA), November
2008.

The preparation of the CESA will build upon the completed inventory, which has been carried
out in the country. The inventory identified 700 tons of free standing, publicly held obsolete

                                               234
pesticides scattered in 140 stores/sites. Data from the completed inventory has been compiled in
a database “Pesticide Stock Management System (PSMS)?, which will be made accessible to the
consultant. The PSMS includes information about pesticides, storage sites, environmental
conditions, etc.

For the formulation of the CESA and EMP, the consultant will:

   (a) Carry out a desk review and analysis of the detailed inventory.
   (b) Sort sites by risk category (high, medium and low) and select representative sites in each
       group
   (c) Visit all selected sites (all high risk sites should be visited where time limitations make
       this feasible)
   (d) Carry out environmental sampling (related to soil and water contamination) and other
       testing where necessary) at high risk sites where this has not been completed as part of
       the contaminated site assessment. Sampling to be limited to the minimum possible.
   (e) Make use of the FAO Environmental Management Toolkit (EMTK) to guide the process
       of identifying risks and prioritizing sites.
   (f) Describe potential mitigation measures based on the identified risks and compare
       alternatives and justify the selected measures.
   (g) Formulate the mitigation measures for each risk category sites and estimate the associated
       costs for the selected measures. Establish performance indicators for monitoring the
       implementation of these measures.
   (h) Provide options with cost estimates, taking into account the available budget, for: (i) a clean
       sweep of inventoried obsolete pesticides and safeguarding of contaminated soils or (ii) a risk
       reduction strategy that would focus on a combination of safeguarding and destruction of obsolete
       pesticides and contaminated soil based on PSMS risk profiles.

Based on the CESA recommendations, Government would inform the Bank of the option it
would prefer to pursue.

The EMTK deals with determining the risk associated with individual pesticide storage
locations. This methodology is automated in the PSMS. The EMTK spells out a series of risk
management /mitigation strategies to (a) transportation; (b) selection of storage locations; (c)
safeguarding; and (d) store/stock management.

The Consultant should note the following:

Soil assessment

ASP PMU in Tanzania conducted a rapid assessment for contaminated soils and buried
pesticides countrywide through FAO support under ASP, where 22 sites were identified. The
rapid assessment report was handed over to international and national consultants to proceed
with development of a sampling plan. The consultants did soil sampling and analysis and
                                                 235
produced an Assessment Report including an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the
contaminated sites. About 600 tons of heavily contaminated soil has been estimated based on the
Soil Assessment Report. This amount has to be included in the disposal/remediation plan by the
CESA consultant.

The Soil Assessment Report that explain and propose the mitigation measures required to
remediate those mostly affected sites will be made available to the CESA consultant to review
and use in preparation of the final CESA document.


Management of Empty Containers
For the case of empty container information, data obtained during the inventory exercise will
determine the way forward. If the problem is significant, a separate study will be required to be
undertaken and the final report which will define disposal options. Depending on the timing of
this study, it could be used to inform the CESA final document. If the problem is found to be
insignificant, the CESA consultant in collaboration with the PMU shall identify and propose
suitable disposal alternative/options for empty containers.

Resettlement:
Should the screening process identify a possibility of changes to access rights to land or water a
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) will complement the CESA document. This Framework
will outline the handling of issues associated with resettlement, land acquisition, restriction of
access to resources, and similar situations associated with ASP-P1. For specific sites, additional
resettlement instruments may need to be prepared.

Consultations:
The consultations process will reflect the CESA process of screening of all sites and additional
assessment of hot spots. For all sites and their disposal and mitigation measures, the
consultations will take place at a national level with the key stakeholders, e.g., those represented
in the NSCs. For high risk sites and any sites where input of local communities will be
important, e.g., sites with resettlement or significant social impacts, consultations will also take
place at the local level. The social data collected during pesticide inventories and consultations
with communities will be used to determine the level of consultation effort appropriate for each
site. Where local consultations will be carried out, NGOs and civil society organizations (CSO)
will be involved in facilitating the process. At all sites with inhabitation and along sensitive
transportation routes, the project will carry out an information and awareness campaign to
enhance public safety, again involving NGOs and/or CSOs as much as practical.


8. Deliverable

The CESA Consultant shall report as follows:

       A preliminary report shall be submitted not later than 6 weeks after signing the contract,
       and following the desk review, the analysis of inventory data and preparation in close
       collaboration with the PMU of the outline of the safeguarding and disposal strategy,

                                                236
      A draft final report, following the field visits and final consultation of the PMU that will
      be presented to a Consultative workshop organized by the PMU within 2 weeks after
      submission of the draft final report (approximately 4-6 weeks after completion of the
      preliminary draft report).
      A Final report shall be submitted after incorporating comments from the consultative
      workshop not later than 2 weeks after receipt of comments from the PMU, and the
      comments from the World Bank.


9. Duration of the assignment

The CESA/EMP is scheduled to be carried out over a 4 month period of time, beginning
approximately on 9th November 2009 and concluding around 8th March 2010.




                                              237
                                                                                                                                        238



  Annex 1: Table format for Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and associated tools

  The EMP will include the table of risk assessment and mitigation measures (table A), a monitoring plan (table B), a table on institutional
  strengthening and training (table C), and a timing table (table D). An EMP for each risk category site will be prepared: low risks, medium
  risks and high risks, and presented in the table format provided in annex 1.

  Table A Environnemental Management Plan (EMP)

          Project activities           Potential        Mitigation             Institutional         Timeline        Cost         Comments
                                         risks         Measure(s)            Responsibilities                      Estimates
                                                   (incl. legislation &   (incl. enforcement &
                                                      regulations)            coordination)
Repackaging
   a. Health and safety
   b. Environmental Protection
   c. Equipment
   d. Public Consultation
   e. Management and Planning
   f. Sustainability (capacity
      building and skills transfer)
   g. Budget Planning

Transport
   a. Health and safety
   b. Environmental Protection
   c. Equipment
   d. Public Consultation
   e. Management and Planning
   f. Sustainability (capacity
      building and skills transfer)
   g. Budget Planning
                                                     239




Storage
   a. Health and safety
   b. Environmental Protection
   c. Equipment
   d. Public Consultation
   e. Management and Planning
   f. Sustainability (capacity
      building and skills transfer)
   g. Budget Planning


Disposal
a. Health and safety
b. Environmental Protection
c. Equipment
d. Public Consultation
e. Management and Planning
f. Sustainability (capacity building
   and skills transfer)
g. Budget Planning


                                       Total costs
                                                                                                              240



Table B: Monitoring plan

                      Mitigation Parameters Location Data and/or     Frequency  Responsibilities    Cost
                      Measures      to be            Measurements        of      (incl. review   (equipment
                                 Monitored           (incl. methods Measurement and reporting) & Labor )
                                                     & equipment)
       Repackaging

       Transport

       Storage

       Disposal

                                                                                    Total cost
                                                                                                                           241

Table C: Institutional Strengthening Activities

            Activities                     Position(s)                Scheduling          Responsibilit(ies)      Cost Estimates
                                      (Institutions, PIUs,
                                          contractors,
                                         construction
                                    supervision consultants)
 EMP implementation
 a. Health and safety
 b. Environmental Protection
 c. Equipment
 d. Public Consultation
 e. Management and Planning
 f. Sustainability (capacity
    building and skills transfer)
 g. Budget Planning

 Monitoring (including.
 compliance)

Table D: Training for Implementation:
        Activities         Participants           Types of Training      Content (modules, etc.)     Scheduling     Cost Estimates
 Health and safety
 Environmental
 Protection
 Equipment supply
 Public Consultation
 Management and
 Planning, and budget
 planning
 Environmental Policies
 & Programs
                                                                                                          242

       Table E: EMP Timing
                                            Year 1              Year 2              Year 3         Etc.
Activity                               Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4
Mitigation Measures

Repackaging
a. Health and safety
b. Environmental Protection
c. Equipment
d. Public Consultation
e. Management and Planning
f. Sustainability (capacity building
   and skills transfer)

Budget
a. ------------
b. ------------
c. etc

Transport
a. ------------
b. ------------
c. etc

Storage
a. ------------
b. ------------
c. etc

Disposal
a. ------------
b. ------------
c. etc
                              243




Monitoring

Institutional Strengthening
a. ------------
b. ------------
c. etc

Training
a. ------------
b. ------------
c. etc
                                                                                       244




                                        Annex 2

         Environmental Assessment and EMP for Sulfur Stockpile in Tanga
The Inventory of obsolete pesticides has revealed about 660 metric tons of unwanted
sulfur in one site at Tanga. The sulfur stock was discussed at length during several
sessions at the Joint Mid-Term Review Mission that was held during October 5 – 16,
2009. It was concluded that the sulfur cannot be disposed of or treated under the ASP
Tanzania project due to the following reasons:
       The sulfur was never registered as a pesticide (the application was rejected by the
       Registrar) and has never been in a condition to be used as a pesticide.
       The sulfur is privately owned, not part of the publicly held stocks for which ASP
       is responsible.
       The sulfur presents a much lower risk to environment and human populations than
       the soil contamination or obsolete stocks found elsewhere. As such, even if it
       were eligible for the programme (which it is not), it would not be of a sufficiently
       high priority to be dealt with within current resources.
However, the sulfur stock at Tanga is of understandable concern to the local population
and the Government of Tanzania. Therefore, the ASP Tanzania Project will support
government efforts to find a solution to the problem by offering specialist advice on
options for disposal within Tanzania.
In order to expedite these efforts, this annex has been included in the TORs for the CESA
in order to formulate options for safeguarding and disposal of sulfur within Tanzania.
.
In view of foregoing, the CESA Consultant shall;

   1. Include the Tanga sulfur as a separate site under CESA;

   2. Prepare Safeguarding and disposal options for the sulfur;

   3. Indicate strategic Environmental Mitigation Plan for the site;

   4. Develop an estimated budget for the remediation of the site; and

   5. Prepare a report for the sulfur stock at Tanga site as a separate Annex to the Main
      CESA Report.
