Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  
INTBAFRAD
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address: INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
February 1, 2011 
 
H. 
E. Sanoussi Touré 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
B. P. 234 
Quartier du Fleuve 
Bamako, Republic of Mali 
 
Re: 
Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) Grant No. TF096815 
Republic of Mali: Africa Stockpiles Program 
Excellency: 
 
In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of the Republic of Mali 
(“Recipient”), I am pleased to inform you that the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (“IBRD”) and the International Development Association (“IDA”) (IBRD and IDA 
collectively, the “World Bank”), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by various donors 
under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for the Africa Stockpiles Program, proposes to extend to the 
Recipient a grant in an amount not to exceed three million one hundred thousand United States 
Dollars (US$3,100,000) (“Grant”) on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this letter 
agreement (“Agreement”), which includes the attached Annex, to assist in the financing of part of the 
cost of the project described in the Annex (“Project”).  This Grant is funded out of the 
abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank receives periodic contributions.  In accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex to this Agreement), the 
Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such funds. 
 
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter 
into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement. 
 
Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized 
official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to the  
Page  2
2
World Bank.  Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement shall 
become effective as of the date of countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
AND 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By //s// Kathryn Hollifield 
Acting Country Director for Mali 
Africa Region 
 
AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
By__//s//
 Sanoussi Touré 
________ 
 
Authorized Representative 
Name _H.E. Sanoussi Touré _____
Title _Minister of Economy & Finance
_
Date: __March 1, 2011
_____________ 
 
Enclosures:   
 
(1) 
Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds, 
dated July 31, 2010 
(2) 
Disbursement Letter of the same date herewith, together with World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006 
(3) 
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in May 2004 and revised in October, 2006 and May 2010 
(4) 
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers 
dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010 
(5) 
Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects 
Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants, dated October 15, 2006 
 
Page  3
3
ANNEX 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
Standard Conditions.
 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out 
of Various Funds dated July 31, 2010 (
“Standard Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Definitions.  
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement 
or in the Appendix hereto. 
 
Article II 
Project Execution 
 
2.01. 
Project Objectives and Description.
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the 
Recipient in: (a) eliminating inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticide stocks and Associated 
Waste and preparing measures for the future decontamination of soils in priority sites; and 
(b) implementing measures to reduce and prevent future risks related to pesticides and waste. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1.
Cleaning and elimination of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste
(a) 
Carrying out of a detailed inventory of the Recipient’s Publicly Held Obsolete 
Pesticide stocks and Associated Waste through: (a) provision of relevant training to the Recipient; 
(b) collection of data and compilation of a database; (c) a risk-based prioritization of the stocks and 
Associated Waste identified in the database; and (d) preparation of the Country Environmental and 
Social Assessment (CESA). 
 
(b) 
Carrying out a program of activities towards the disposal of Obsolete Pesticides and 
Associated Waste through:  (a) the implementation of selected treatment and / or disposal 
technology; and (b) the improvement of the Obsolete Pesticide stocks collection centers, including 
the improvement of safety measures at those centers. 
 
Part 2.
Prevention of Obsolete Pesticide accumulation
Carrying out a program of activities aimed at preventing accumulation of new stocks of 
Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste accumulation, including: (a) building capacity through the 
provision of training to farmers, civil society groups and relevant staff of the Recipient; (b) a review 
and update of the legal and regulatory framework to control Obsolete Pesticides and Associated 
Waste accumulation and strengthen enforcement mechanisms; (c) promotion of improved 
management of empty pesticide containers through the design and implementation of a container 
management strategy; (d) awareness raising activities on the Program, and the health and 
Page  4
4
environmental hazards of pesticides; and (e) development of a long-term strategy for dealing with 
future accumulations of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste. 
 
Page  5
5
Part 3.
Project management
Supporting the PMU in carrying out Project coordination, implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation, through the provision of technical advisory services, goods and operational support. 
 
2.02. 
Project Execution Generally.
 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through DNACPN in 
accordance with the provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; 
(b) the “Guidelines 
on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 (“Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines”); and (c) this Article II. 
 
2.03. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements.
 
Without limitations upon the provisions of 
Section 2.02 above, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
(i) carry out the activities under the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and pest management practices and due 
regard to ecological and environmental factors and to the health and safety of workers; 
(ii) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; 
(iii) furnish all information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the 
World Bank shall reasonably request; (iv) from time to time exchange views with the World 
Bank’s representatives on the progress and results of the Project; and (v) cause all goods and 
services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively for the purposes of the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
duly perform its obligations under the Conventions and shall exercise its rights 
thereunder in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Project, and without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, 
undertake all such actions as may be necessary and proper to ensure the safe and effective 
treatment and/or disposal of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste under the Project. 
 
(c) 
maintain throughout Project implementation the PMU under terms of reference 
and with resources and a staff composition that is acceptable to the World Bank for purposes of 
the day to day management of the Project encompassing financial management, monitoring and 
evaluation, preparation of progress reports and procurement. Without limitation to the generality 
of the foregoing, the staff composition of the PMU shall include a national Project coordinator, an 
administrative and financial manager responsible for financial management and procurement, a 
pesticide management specialist responsible for operations and monitoring and evaluation, a 
specialist on Obsolete Pesticide accumulation prevention responsible for communication and 
awareness and his / her counterpart from the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment, an accountant, 
and support staff comprising an assistant and a chauffeur. 
 
(d) 
maintain throughout Project implementation, a steering committee, under terms 
of reference and with a membership composition that is acceptable to the World Bank, to oversee 
the overall implementation of the Project, including 
inter alia
:
(i) the approval of annual work 
plans to be implemented under the Project; (ii) the management of budgets; and (iii) the review of 
progress reports.  The steering committee shall be chaired by the Recipient’s Minister of 
Environment or his / her nominee and include the following members, unless otherwise agreed 
with the World Bank:  representatives from the Recipient’s Ministries of Agriculture, Health, 
Page  6
6
Economy and Finance, and Livestock and Fishing; representatives from the Directorates of 
Decontamination and Control of Pollution and Nuisances, Agriculture, Fishing, Health, 
Veterinary Services, Trade and Competition, and customs; and representatives from the 
Coordination Unit of the Agricultural Services and Farmer Organizations Support Program; the 
Malian Company for the Development of Textiles; the Office of the Upper Niger Valley; the 
Permanent Assembly of the Chambers of Agriculture of Mali; the Mali Agricultural Input Dealers 
Network; and the focal point on matters relating to the Stockholm Convention in Mali. 
 
(e) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the procedures set forth in the 
Program OM and the Country OM, and except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provisions thereof if such amendment or waiver, may in the opinion of the 
World Bank, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
(f) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the guidelines, rules and 
procedures defined in the ESASR, the CESA, and the RAP, all in a manner satisfactory to the 
World Bank; and except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce any provision of the 
aforementioned documents. 
 
(g) 
submit to the World Bank for its review and approval an annual work plan on or 
about December 31 of each year of Project implementation commencing in calendar year 2011 
and implement the activities reflected in such work plan in a manner that is satisfactory to the 
World Bank. 
 
2.04. 
Donor Visibility and Visit
.
(a) The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all such 
measures as the World Bank may reasonably request to identify publicly the Donors
’
support for 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient shall, 
upon the World Bank’s request, enable the representatives of the Donors
 
to visit any part of the 
Recipient’s territory for purposes related to the Project. 
 
2.05.
 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.  
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in 
paragraph (b) of this Section.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph (a) consist of the 
following: 
 
(i) 
Inventory database of Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks in place 
and being used by the PMU and the Recipient’s staff. 
 
(ii) 
Inventoried Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides stocks and Associated 
Waste are disposed of or safeguarded, as a result of the completion of the Disposal services 
contract(s) in accordance with national and international laws and regulations. 
 
Page  7
7
(iii) 
A plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, for the 
decontamination of soils in priority sites has been prepared by the Recipient. 
 
(iv) 
The legal and regulatory framework for pesticide management is 
improved, including measures to strengthen compliance with the Basel Convention and the 
Rotterdam Convention. 
 
(v) 
The training program under Part 2 of the Project is implemented and the 
knowledge so acquired is being used by the PMU and Recipient’s staff. 
 
(vi) 
The PMU is functional and its operation is satisfactory to the World 
Bank. 
 
(vii) 
The steering committee has approved a long-term strategy for dealing 
with future accumulations of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be furnished 
to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date
.
2.06. 
Financial Management.
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management 
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
semester, covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each such audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months 
after the end of such period.
 
2.07. 
Procurement
 
(a) General
.
All goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in: 
 
(i) 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004, revised in October 2006 and May 2010 
(“Procurement Guidelines”), in the case of goods; and 
 
(ii) 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004, revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; and 
 
Page  8
8
(iii) 
the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for the Project in 
accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines
 (“Procurement Plan”). 
 
(b) Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this 
Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, 
or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
(c) 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (ii) below, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
(ii) 
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
may be used for procurement of goods for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: 
(A) Limited International Bidding; (B) National Competitive Bidding; (C) Shopping; (D) Direct 
Contracting. 
 
(d) 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
(ii) 
The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’ 
services for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement Plan:  (A) Quality-based 
Selection; (B) Least Cost Selection; (C) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (D) 
Single-source Selection; (E) Selection of Individual Consultants; and (F) Sole Source Procedures 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
 
(e) 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
.
The Procurement Plan 
shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.
 
Article III 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds 
 
3.01. 
Eligible Expenditures.
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), 
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table.  The table specifies the 
Categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, the 
allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  9
9
3.02. 
Withdrawal Conditions.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature 
of this Agreement by the Recipient. 
 
3.03. 
Withdrawal Period.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard 
Conditions is April 30, 2011. 
Article IV 
Additional Remedies 
 
4.01. 
Additional Events of Suspension.
 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in 
Section 4.02 (k) of the Standard Conditions consists of the following:   
 
(a) 
The World Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events 
has occurred and is continuing:  (a) the Recipient has withdrawn from or delivered a written 
notice of its intention to withdraw as a party to the Conventions; or (b) the Recipient has amended 
or caused to be amended the CESA so as to in the opinion of the World Bank materially and 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The World Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the Recipient has failed to 
take action, satisfactory to the World Bank, to carry out the Activities within six months after the 
Effective date. 
 
Article V 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
5.01. 
Recipient’s Representative
.
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 
of the Standard Conditions is the Minister of the Recipient responsible for finance. 
 
5.02. 
Recip
ient’s Address
.
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard 
Conditions is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
BP 234 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods, consultants’ 
services, Operating Costs, 
Training  
3,100,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
3,100,000  
Page  10
10
Quartier du Fleuve 
Bamako, Republic of Mali 
Facsimile: 
223-20-221914 / 20-231654 
 
5.03. 
World Bank’s Address
.
The W
orld Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the 
Standard Conditions is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD or 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
11
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Associated Waste” means materials that are contaminated by Obsolete 
Pesticides (hereinafter defined), including 
inter alia
 containers, equipment, and heavily 
contaminated soils where the World Bank agrees that those soils are within the Project scope. 
 
(b) 
“Category” means each item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 3.01 of this Annex, and the term Categories shall mean more 
than one item or all items collectively, as the case may be. 
 
(c) 
“CESA” means the country project-specific environmental and social 
assessment, acceptable to the World Bank, that evaluates the Project’s potential environmental 
risks and impacts in its area of influence; examines Project alternatives; identifies ways of 
improving Project selection, sitting, planning, design, and implementation by preventing, 
minimizing, mitigating, or compensating for adverse environmental impacts and enhancing 
positive impacts; and includes the process of mitigating and managing adverse environmental 
impacts throughout Project implementation. The CESA is to be carried out by the Recipient in a 
manner that is consistent with the ESASR adopted by the Recipient on January 20, 2010 after 
completing the preparation of the inventory of Obsolete Pesticides under Part A.1 of Schedule 2 
of the GEF Grant Agreement. The CESA includes an environmental management plan and a 
health safety plan, acceptable to the World Bank. 
 
(d) 
“Conventions” means collectively: (i) the Basel Convention on the Control of 
Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal Adopted by the Conference 
of the Plenipotentiaries on March 22, 1989, and entered into force in May, 1992, pursuant to 
paragraph 1 of Article 25 of the said convention (“Basel Convention”); (ii) the Stockholm 
Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) entered into force on May 17, 2004, pursuant 
to paragraph 1 of Article 26 of the said convention (“Stockholm Convention”); and (iii) the 
Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous 
Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade entered into force on February 24, 2004, pursuant 
to paragraph 1 of Article 26 of the said convention (“Rotterdam Convention”) and “Convention” 
means each and any of the Basel Convention, the Stockholm Convention and the Rotterdam 
Convention. 
 
(e) 
“Country Operations Manual” or “Country OM” means the Project Operations 
Manual, adopted by the Recipient, and setting forth 
inter alia
 Project specific institutional, 
technical, procurement, financial management, disbursement and environmental and social 
management procedures, as the said manual may be amended from time to time with the approval 
of the World Bank. 
 
(f) 
“Disposal Services” means services related to the treatment or disposal of 
Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste under Part 1 of the Project, as set forth in paragraph 
2.01 of this Annex. 
 
(g) “DNACPN” 
means 
the 
Direction Nationale de l’Assainissement et du Contrôle 
des Pollutions et des Nuisances, 
within the Reci
pient’s Ministry of Environment. 
 
Page  12
12
(h) 
“ESASR” means the Environmental and Social Assessment Summary Report 
dated March 17, 2004, satisfactory to the World Bank, identifying and assessing the potential 
environmental and social impacts of the Program, and such term shall include any schedules to 
the said assessment. 
 
(i) 
“GEF Grant Agreement” means the Agreement between the Recipient and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting as implementing agency of the 
GEF, dated December 26, 2006, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and 
includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the GEF Grant Agreement. 
 
(j) 
“Obsolete Pesticides” means pesticide products: (a) whose usage is prohibited or 
severely restricted for environmental or health reasons by applicable provisions of the 
Conventions, and/or national law consistent with the Conventions; or (b) that have deteriorated as 
a
result of improper or prolonged storage and can neither be used in accordance with label 
specifications nor easily reformulated for use; or (c) that cannot be used for their intended 
purpose, and cannot be easily modified to accomplish such purpose or some other purpose. 
 
(k) 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental operating expenses incurred 
on account of the coordination, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
including office supplies, fuel and vehicle maintenance costs, per diems, utilities, rent, office 
security and cleaning, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants. 
 
(l) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established within the Recipient’s 
DNACPN for the purposes set forth in paragraph 2.03 (c) of this Annex. 
 
(m) 
“Program” means the Africa Stockpile Program aimed at significantly reducing 
the impact of persistent Obsolete Pesticides on human health and biodiversity in African 
countries, which has been endorsed by the GEF CEO on August 16, 2005. 
 
(n) 
“Program Operations Manual” or “POM”, means the generic operations manual, 
dated May 11, 2005, accepted by the World Bank, setting forth the implementation arrangements 
for the Program as a whole, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the approval 
of the World Bank. 
 
(o) 
“Public Authority” means any government department or agency, whether 
national, local or otherwise, located in the territory of the Recipient. 
 
(p) 
“Publicly Held Obsolete Pesticides” means those Obsolete Pesticides which are 
in the legal ownership or custody of the Recipient or any Public Authority or any company or 
other entity owned or controlled in whole or in part by the Recipient or by any Public Authority, 
or become so owned or in such custody during the course of Project implementation. 
 
(q) 
“RAP” means the resettlement action plan for the Project disclosed by the 
Recipient on November 26, 2010. 
 
(r) 
“Training” means costs (excluding consultants’ services), arising under the 
Project on account of training activities, including, travel, accommodation, and per diem expenses 
for participants; training materials; and rental of training facilities. 
Page  13
13
 
