Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7071 POL
Loan Agreement
(Second Hard Coal Sector Adjustment Loan)
between 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 3, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7071 POL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 3, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated June 12, 
2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s hard coal sector (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in one tranche as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 3.08 is modified to read:
"Each withdrawal of an amount from the Loan Account shall be made 
in the Loan Currency of such amount.  The Bank, at the request and acting 
as an agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency 
withdrawn from the Loan Account the currency or currencies of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement."
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)
Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan."; and 
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Cash Management Plan" means a plan prepared by the Ministry of Economy 
of the Borrower setting forth actions and targets regarding cash management activities 
for each Mining Company (hereinafter defined) for a given calendar year;
(b)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"State Fund for Rehabilitation of the Disabled" means the fund 
established by the Borrower’s Act on Employment and Vocational Rehabilitation of 
Disabled Persons, Dz.U Nr. 46, poz. 201, dated May 9, 1991;
(d)
"Gmina" means the basic self-government unit as defined in Polish law;
(e)
"IMCSC" means  the Inter-Ministerial Coal Steering Committee established 
by the Borrower to oversee implementation of the Program;
(f)
"Mining Companies" and "Mining Company" mean collectively the following 
hard coal mining companies and individually each of the following mining companies in 
the hard coal mining sector of the Borrower, namely: Bytomska Spolka Weglowa S.A. 
(BSW); Rudzka Spolka Weglowa S.A. (RuSW); Gliwicka Spolka Weglowa S.A. (GSW); 
Katowicki Holding Weglowy S.A. (KHW); Nadwislanska Spolka Weglowa S.A. (NSW); Rybnicka 
Spolka Weglowa S.A. (RySW); and Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa S.A. (JSW); and
(g)
"Privatization Strategy Framework" means a strategy framework to be 
prepared by the Ministry of Economy of the Borrower setting forth the key actions and 
timetable for privatization of the Mining Companies.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred twelve million eight hundred thousand Euro (EUR 112,800,000) as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan (EUR 1,128,000).  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of the said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest, commitment and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full 
on June 15, 2011.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
Page  4
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
u1. Swietokrzyska 12
Warszawa 00-916
Republic of Poland
Page  5
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINF
815592 PL
48 22 826 66 70
Poland
814386 PL
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
By /s/ Krzysztof J. Ners
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Michael Carter
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
1.
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
(a)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or credit;
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of 
the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112            -
Alcoholic beverages
121            -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
Page  6
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718         718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728         728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or Silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971            -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption;
(e)
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use 
or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);
(f)
expenditures: (i) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(ii) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Bank to remedy the situation.
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule "proceeds of the Loan" refers to the funds 
disbursed by the Bank to the Deposit Account and does not include the Borrower’s 
currency equivalent of these funds, used for the purposes of carrying out the Program.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement
1.
Payment by the Mining Companies of: (a) all social security and personal income 
tax owed on a cumulative basis for current operations for the period from November 1, 
2000 to April 30, 2001; and (b) all social security, value added tax and personal 
income tax on an aggregate and cumulative basis for the same period net of any own 
funds that Mining Companies spend on employment  restructuring; all while maintaining 
satisfactory liabilities to suppliers and other creditors and payments to Gminas, 
environmental funds and the State Fund for Rehabilitation of the Disabled in 
accordance with Cash Management Plans for the calendar year 2001.
2.
Receipt of a Privatization Strategy Framework, satisfactory to the Bank, 
approved by the IMCSC.
3.
(a)
Receipt of negotiated contracts, with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, for: (i) a study on subsidence; and (ii) a study to finalize environmental 
action plans for the period 2001-2005 for the Mining Companies; and (b) issuance of 
requests for proposals for a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
on saline water management schemes for the Debiensko desalination plant.
Page  7
