                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001774



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-78230)


                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF

                               EURO 6.4 MILLION

                        (US$9.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                       THE REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES

                                     FOR A

                     DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION



                                December 10, 2010




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit 1
Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius and Seychelles Country Department
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective December 8, 2010)

                    Currency Unit = Seychelles Rupee
                     Seychelles Rupee 1.00 = US$.08
                    US$1.00 = 12.29 Seychelles Rupee


                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1–December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



COMESA   Common Market of Eastern and Southern Africa
DPL      Development Policy Loan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GFS      Government Finance Statistics
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF      International Monetary Fund
PER      Public Expenditure Review
SMB      Seychelles Marketing Board
STC      Seychelles Trading Company Ltd.




                     Vice President:Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                   Country Director:Constantine Chikosi
                    Sector Manager: John Panzer
                  Task Team Leader: Tracey Lane
                                   (formerly Cevdet Denizer)
                   ICR Team Leader Tracey Lane




                                       ii
                                                     SEYCHELLES

                                      DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                                       CONTENTS


Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring

1.    Program Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................. 1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................ 7
3.    Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 9
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................... 16
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 18
6.    Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 22
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............. 23

Figures
Figure 1: Welfare Claimants and Payments, 2009-2010 ................................................... 12
Figure 2: Employment Before and During Economic Reform Program, 2006-2009 ....... 15

Tables
Table 1:      Program Prior Actions ......................................................................................... 7
Table 2:      Operating Subsidies and Capital Grants to State Owned Enterprises, SR 000s 13

Annexes
Annex 1:      Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................. 25
Annex 2:      Program Development Outcome Indicators....................................................... 26
Annex 3:      Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .......................... 27
Annex 4:      List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................... 33

MAP




                                                               iii
iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Seychelles
Country:                Seychelles              Program Name:             Development Policy
                                                                          Lending
Program ID:             P114822                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-78230
ICR Date:               12/24/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          SEYCHELLES
Original Total
                        USD 9.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 9.01M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 9.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/05/2009     Effectiveness:
Appraisal:            09/11/2009     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/05/2009     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   05/31/2010           05/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                           Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                          Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General finance sector                                                40                  40
General public administration sector                                  40                  40
Other social services                                                 20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               33                  33
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      33                  33
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                     17                  17
Social safety nets                                                    17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Constantine Chikosi                  Johannes C.M. Zutt
Sector Manager:            John Panzer                          Kathie L. Krumm
Program Team Leader:       Tracey M. Lane                       Tracey M. Lane
ICR Team Leader:           Tracey M. Lane
ICR Primary Author:        Wendy Schreiber Ayres


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To help the Seychelles establish a stable macreconomic environment and sustainable
fiscal framework.



                                                 ii
Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
                   Primary balance rises from -2.0 percent of GDP in 2008 to exceed the original
Indicator 1 :
                   6.2 percent of GDP primary surplus target for 2009 envisaged in the program.
Value                                                                        14.8 percent of
                                            More than 6.2
(quantitative or   #2.0 percent of GDP                                       GDP, including
                                            percent of GDP
Qualitative)                                                                 grants
Date achieved      12/31/2007               12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
                   Excluding grants, the primary balance in 2009 was 14.8 percent of GDP, more
(incl. %
                   than double the original target.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      National Tender Board established and fully functioning.
Value
                                           Established and                    Established and
(quantitative or   Not established
                                           fully functioning                  fully functioning
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2009                     12/31/2009
                   The National Tender Board was established January 14, 2009. As of
Comments
                   December 31, 2009, some 66 contracts had been subject to NTB procedures,
(incl. %
                   of which 58 were approved. Contracts awarded in 2009 by the board totaled
achievement)
                   SR 226.2 million.
Indicator 3 :      Staff of the public administration falls by 15 percent.
Value              16,615 public servants 14,075                           14,140
(quantitative or   (government and          (government and                (government and
Qualitative)       parastatals)             parastatals)                   parastatals)
Date achieved      04/01/2009               12/31/2009                     12/31/2009
Comments
                   Target met by the end of 2009 15 percent of civil servants staff posts had been
(incl. %
                   removed from the public sector payroll.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Social Welfare Agency established and fully functioning.
Value
                                           Established and                    Established and
(quantitative or   Not established
                                           fully functioning                  fully functioning
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2009                      12/31/2009
Comments           Target met. The Social Welfare Agency commenced operations in January
(incl. %           2009 and continues to make monthly welfare payments to between 2000-2500
achievement)       households each month.
Indicator 5 :      Overall subsidies of the government to parastatals fall.
Value              SR 239.3 million         SR 78.5 million                 SR 47.5 million


                                                iii
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007               12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
                   Target met for current transfers. Although not included in the baseline,
Comments
                   subsidies including capital grants fell from SR 265.1 million in 2007 to SR
(incl. %
                   111.1 million in 2008, before rising in 2009 to SR 168 million, due to a large
achievement)
                   capital grant given to PUC.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                Values (from                       Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                   Social Welfare Agency drawing on relevant government databases to establish
Indicator 1 :
                   eligibility of claimants
                                                                              Social Welfare
                                             Social Welfare
                                                                              Agency databases
Value              Social Welfare not        Agency drawing
                                                                              still not linked to
(quantitative or   drawing on relevant       on relevant
                                                                              other relevant
Qualitative)       databases.                government
                                                                              government
                                             databases.
                                                                              databases.
Date achieved      12/31/2008                12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
                   Although the databases of the Social Welfare Agency are still not linked
Comments
                   electronically to other relevant government databases, the agency is verifying
(incl. %
                   information on applicants through direct communication with the other
achievement)
                   agencies.
Indicator 2 :      Claimants receive response from Social Welfare Agency within 10 days.
Value
                   Social Welfare Agency Response within                       Response within 14
(quantitative or
                   not established       10 days                               days
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007                 12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments           Original target set prior to actual experience in processing claims. It proved to
(incl. %           be unrealistic and a new target of 14 days has been set. This new target is
achievement)       being adhered to.
Indicator 3 :      Overall subsidies of the government to former Seychelles Marketing Board fall
Value
(quantitative or   SR 68 million                               zero            zero
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007                                  12/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
                   Target met. STC received net lending in 2007 (SR 33 million) and 2008 (SR
(incl. %
                   33 million) which was fully repaid in 2009 (SR 66 million).
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs



                                                 iv
                                              Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         DO       IP   Disbursements
       Archived
                                          (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                 v
1.      Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., Program Document/ISR, not
evaluative):

1.1     Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)

Country and sector background. The Seychelles is a remote, small island-state with middle-
income country characteristics. The population of the Seychelles is estimated at 87,298 (2009).
The per capita income of US$9,028 (2009) is among the highest of the middle-income countries
group.1 As with other island-states, the overall size of the economy is small (US$790 million
gross domestic product (GDP) in 2009). The Seychelles enjoys an exclusive economic zone of
almost 1.4 million square kilometers in one of the world‘s major tuna fishing grounds. However,
the limited land, capital, and human resources restrict the country‘s ability to benefit from
economies of scale in production and economic diversification.2 Unemployment has been low
over the years, estimated at 4 percent in 2009. The Seychelles also has good quality-of-life
indicators with life expectancy at Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
levels of 73 years.3 An open economy, the Seychelles is naturally vulnerable to global shocks
and terms-of-trade shocks, particularly those which affect tourism. Furthermore, the Seychelles
relies on imports for almost all raw materials, products, and specialized services.4

The Seychelles economy is predominantly service based, with tourism, fishing and fish
processing, and off-shore services major contributors to gross domestic product. Tourism
(primarily high-end) accounts for 25 percent of GDP, 25–30 percent of employment, and 70
percent of foreign exchange earnings.5 Financial and professional services contribute 22.5
percent of GDP. Fishing and fish processing account for an estimated 5.5 percent of GDP, 7
percent of jobs, and 35 percent of goods exports. Agriculture and artisanal fisheries are small,
contributing less than 3 percent of GDP. Bunkering, (the re-export of fuel) and the storage of
fuel are profitable activities taking advantage of Seychelles geographic position in the Indian
Ocean. Offshore business and financial services had been developing in the years prior to the
onset of the global economic crisis.



1
      Calculated using the World Bank Atlas method.
2
      The Seychelles comprises 115 tropical islands spread over 1.374 million square kilometers in the western Indian
Ocean, covering 455.3 square kilometers in land area. Only 2.2 percent of the land area is arable, and about 10
percent of the 60 square kilometers of potential agricultural land is in use. The mountainous terrain and low soil
fertility are an impediment to agricultural productivity. Some 87 percent of the country is forested, and 50 percent is
a forest preserve. About 90 percent of the population of the Seychelles lives on the largest island, Mahé, where the
capital, Victoria, and the main fishing port are located.
3
      Data in this paragraph are from the World Development Indicators database.
4
      The Seychelles belongs to the Common Market of Eastern and Southern Africa, the Indian Ocean Commission,
and the Southern African Development Community regional groups, and its major trading partners are the China,
France, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand, United
Kingdom, and the United States .
5
      Seychelles National Statistics Bureau, national income accounts.


                                                          1
The Seychelles has had seven presidential elections since independence from the United
Kingdom in 1976. A year after independence, a coup d‘état established a one-party socialist
state. However, in December 1991 President France Albert René of the Seychelles People's
Progressive Front announced a shift to multiparty pluralism. In 1993, following the adoption of
a new constitution, President René won the first multiparty presidential elections held in
Seychelles. He governed Seychelles until April 2004 when he stepped down and appointed
James Alix Michel as the interim president. Michel was elected in 2006 to a five-year term in a
close race with the opposition Seychelles National Party. Since his election, President Michel
has taken a robust approach towards good governance in the management of the country‘s
economy.

Following independence Seychelles pursued a state-led development policy, emphasizing rapid
capital accumulation and the establishment of a generous welfare system to improve the well-
being of the country‘s small population. The government sought to achieve its economic and
social goals through central planning and public ownership of productive resources. It imposed
extensive controls and regulations on the private sector and it also participated directly in
manufacturing, distribution, trade, and other economic activities through state-owned enterprises.

Although the development strategy resulted in impressive achievements in the social sectors, and
the economy grew by an average of 5 percent during the 1990s, it also led to unsustainable
domestic and external imbalances. Current account deficits were high throughout the 1990s and
peaked at 23 percent of GDP in 2001, and the overall fiscal deficit reached 18 percent of GDP in
2002. GDP declined by 5.3 percent in 2003, and it was clear that the state-led development
strategy pursued for more than a quarter century had reached its limits and become
unsustainable.

The government introduced a macroeconomic reform program in mid-2003 based on fiscal
consolidation, and the fiscal balance rose to a surplus of 1.3 percent of GDP by 2005. However,
implementation was short-lived and significant internal and external imbalances reemerged in
the run up to Presidential and Parliamentary elections. Already relatively high, spending for
social services and safety nets increased further between 2005 and 2007. Social security
spending—which averaged 29.8 percent of expenditures, or 8 percent of GDP, during 2000–
05—was on a par with that of European countries, and at the top end of middle-income
countries. Wages and salaries accounted for more than 10 percent of GDP, high by international
standards. Net transfers to public enterprises steadily increased and reached 5.5 percent of GDP
in 2007. The government financed the deficits with largely non-concessional external loans.

The fiscal deficit widened again to 8.7 percent of GDP in 2007, and poor public financial
management practices meant that even with a budgeted fiscal surplus of 5 percent, actual
expenditures were not contained. Despite a stop-go fiscal policy, economic growth during this
period was strong backed by inward investment in high-end hotels and resorts, real GDP growth
averaged 8.5 percent between 2005 and 2007.

The exchange rate peg proved impossible to maintain. The SR underwent two step devaluations
in 2006 and 2007, but at the beginning of 2008 was still estimated to be overvalued by 100



                                                2
percent, and there was a strong informal market in foreign exchange and numerous restrictions
on access to hard currency. The growing imbalances proved unmanageable and in 2008, the
growing oil and food prices provided the catalyst for a foreign debt and balance-of-payments
crisis, as Seychelles missed its debt service payments. Current account deficits widened
considerably in 2008 and reached about −51.8 percent of GDP, from −20.8 percent in 2007. As
a result, reserves declined rapidly, and by mid 2008 the Seychelles had exhausted its reserves, as
import coverage fell to less than one month. External transactions were increasingly financed by
arrears accumulation.

The external debt sustainability situation worsened. In 2006, the government borrowed US$230
million. In 2007, it borrowed an additional €54.7 million plus US$30 million, bringing its total
external debt stock to about 69 percent of GDP, up from 44.6 percent of GDP in 2004. The total
stock of public debt accumulated over the period, and reached about 137 percent of GDP by
2008. In September 2008, the authorities announced that they would not be able to make a
coupon payment on the US$230 million bond, and Standard & Poor‘s downgraded its credit
rating from B to selective default.

From real GDP growth of 9.7 percent in 2007, the economy contracted by 1.3 percent in 2008.
The Government responded to the economic crisis quickly. The government requested technical
assistance and financial support from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank,
and other development partners to help in implementing the reform program. In November
2008, it entered into two-year Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF, aimed at stabilizing the
economy and laying the foundations for a recovery in 2010. Key elements of the program
included liberalizing the exchange rate, tightening fiscal policy, and strengthening the
management of the Central Bank of Seychelles of monetary policy. At the same time the World
Bank began preparing a development policy loan (DPL), and offered technical assistance with
designing specific elements of the reform program.

Following the float in November 2008, inflation spiked as the relative price hike passed through
to domestic goods. At the end of 2008, annual average inflation was about 37 percent (and end-
of-period inflation was about 63 percent), compared with 5.3 percent in 2007.6 The inflation was
quickly brought under control with prudent monetary policy and inflation rates fell to single
digits by the end of the first quarter of 2009 where they have since remained.

Understanding that the country could not continue living beyond its means, the authorities
adopted a comprehensive reform program aimed at significantly reducing the role of the state in
the economy and addressing the underlying causes of the crisis. The reform program involved
improving macroeconomic management, strengthening budget formulation and execution,
privatizing non-strategic state owned enterprises, and eliminating most universal subsidies in
favor of a means-tested social welfare system.




6
     Although the official consumer price index may have understated true inflation in 2007 because of controls on
prices.


                                                         3
To bring its debt to sustainable levels, the authorities initiated debt restructuring negotiations
with the Paris Club creditors and other private and official creditors. Following the successful
completion of the first review of the Stand-By Arrangement, the Paris Club in mid-April 2009
offered exceptional debt relief to the Seychelles, granting a face value reduction of 45 percent.
This provided an opportunity for the country to attain fiscal and external debt sustainability.
The IMF in June 2009 completed its second review of the Stand-By Arrangement, noting that all
quantitative performance criteria were observed and that the structural reform program was on
track. The authorities agreed in November 2009 to a three-year follow-on arrangement under
the Extended Fund Facility, which the IMF Board approved on December 22, 2009. Structural
reforms under the Extended Fund Facility focused on (a) overhauling the tax system, (b)
improving the management of government finances and performance of public enterprises, and
(c) bolstering the financial system. Three tranches have been disbursed, the latest on October 6,
2010, following completion of a financing assurances review.

The program is on track. All quantitative performance criteria at end-June 2010 were met. The
structural reform agenda under the program continues to be implemented broadly as scheduled,
including the revision of the business tax and sales tax legislation, the introduction of personal
income tax, and the strengthening of public financial and central bank management. All
structural benchmarks through end-August 2010 were observed.

Rationale for World Bank involvement. The World Bank had not had an active engagement with
the Seychelles since 2002, when the country went into suspension status because of payment
arrears to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). Seychelles
cleared all its payment arrears by October 2006. As the government prepared to deal with its
economic difficulties it reached out to the Bank, the IMF, and other development partners to
provide it with technical and financial support to address the economic problems. In 2007, the
government sought advice on the 2008 budget and throughout the following year the Bank
provided advice on a reform program to address fiscal policy deficiencies, public financial
management, public administration and civil service reforms, health and education expenditure
efficiency, governance and privatization of state owned enterprises, and on the design and
implementation of the targeted social welfare programs. The Bank initiated preparation of a
Public Expenditure Review (PER) in 2008 to help the government to identify key fiscal reforms
and develop a public sector reform action plan including civil service reforms, public financial
management and improved efficiency in health and education spending.7 A subsequent Public
Expenditure Review was prepared in 2010, which provided review of additional specific
expenditure topics, including social protection and assistance, active labor market policies, and
public enterprise reforms.8 The Bank also offered advice on reforming public procurement,
establishing a means-tested social welfare system, and promoting private sector development. In
addition, the Bank was able to offer substantial financial support through the DPL to finance the
government‘s budget, facilitating sound fiscal management.




7
    ―Seychelles Public Expenditure Review,‖ Report 49273-SC, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 2,
Africa Region, World Bank, June 25, 2009.
8
    ―Seychelles Public Expenditure Review 2, Selected Issues‖ forthcoming.


                                                    4
Contribution to higher-level objectives. The DPL was a key component of the Bank‘s Interim
Strategy Note for Seychelles for fiscal 2009–11, which was discussed by the World Bank‘s
Board of Directors on November 5, 2009 together with the DPL. The Bank‘s strategy was to
support the government‘s macroeconomic stabilization program in the short run and to initiate
the structural reform process in line with the Seychelles longer-term economic recovery strategy.
The DPL—the first Bank lending operation since 2002—was fully consistent with this objective.
By initiating policy dialogue on the main reform issues, the DPL laid the foundation for World
Bank re-engagement.

The Bank‘s Interim Strategy Note was itself aligned with the government‘s reform program as
articulated in the detailed policy statements of the Ministry of Finance to the parliament for the
2008 and 2009 budgets and in the president‘s speech to the nation in late February 2009. Both
the 2008 and 2009 budgets aimed at achieving strong fiscal adjustment with sizeable primary
surpluses in both years despite the global crisis. Policy statements for 2008 and 2009 presented
to the parliament specified how the targets would be attained. The DPL directly supported the
government‘s priority policy reforms, including measures to stabilize the economy and structural
reforms to foster a market-oriented economy.

1.2    Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the operation was to help the Seychelles establish a stable
macroeconomic environment and sustainable fiscal framework. This would be achieved through
fiscal adjustment underpinned by public administration and civil service reforms and a reduction
of the role of the state in commercial activities. The operation also supported the establishment
of a targeted social safety net. By providing foreign exchange in a timely manner, the operation
would directly contribute to stabilization of the economy during a period of global slowdown and
will help in building public support for the reforms.

The policy matrix in annex 2 of the DPL program document specified the key performance
indicators. These were:

      Primary balance rises from −2.0 percent of GDP in 2007 to exceed the original 6.2
       percent of GDP primary surplus target for 2009 envisaged in the program.
      National Tender Board established and fully functioning.
      Staff of the public administration falls by 15 percent.
      Public sector wage bill falls from 10.2 percent of GDP in 2007 to 7.5 percent of GDP in
       2009.
      Social Welfare Agency established and fully functioning.
      Overall subsidies of the government to parastatals fall.

1.3   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

The operation‘s development objective was not revised.

1.4    Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)


                                                5
The operation supported five policy areas. These were (a) strengthened budget management, (b)
improved governance and accountability in public procurement, (c) creation of a more efficient
civil service and public administration, (d) establishment of a targeted social safety net to protect
the poorest, and (e) reduction in the role of the state in the economy. Details follow.

Strengthen budget management. The DPL supported the adoption of the standard Government
Finance Statistics (GFS) classification for preparing and monitoring budget performance, thereby
strengthening budget credibility. It also assisted with the preparation of quarterly budget
monitoring reports which provide timely information on budgetary outcomes and their
consistency with the macroeconomic framework. These are important steps in establishing
sound fiscal management and bringing fiscal budgeting and accounting in line with international
best practices.

Improve governance and accountability in public procurement. The DPL supported the
development and adoption of the Public Procurement Act, 2008, modeled on the standard of the
Common Market of Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA). Parliament approved the act in
December 2008. The law modernizes and harmonizes procurement regulations and procedures,
introduces strict and uniform requirements governing competitive bidding procedures, enhancing
transparency, competitiveness, and efficiency.

Create a more efficient civil service and public administration. To improve the efficiency of
the public administration without undermining the capabilities of the state, the operation
supported several reforms laid out in the government‘s Memorandum of Action on Public
Administration and Public Sector Reform Policies, adopted in August 2009. These measures
aimed at reducing excess staff, including the voluntary departure and early retirement schemes
and the contracting out of non-core government functions.

Establish a targeted social safety net to protect the poorest. The DPL supported the
introduction of a new means-tested social welfare policy and the establishment of the Social
Welfare Agency to administer the new policy.

Reduce the role of the state in the economy. To reduce the government‘s contingent liabilities
and increase the role of the private sector to lead economic growth, the DPL supported the
restructuring of the Seychelles Marketing Board into 16 commercial units and the subsequent
privatization of eight units and the liquidation six non-viable units. The remaining units have
been combined in an umbrella company still with government ownership called Seychelles
Trading Corporation. It also supported the elimination of all subsidies to the Seychelles Trading
Corporation, and a sharp reduction in overall in subsidies to public enterprises. In addition, the
DPL supported the establishment of the Public Enterprise Monitoring Division to track and
report on performance of all enterprises with state ownership, aimed at improving their
transparency and accountability, and ultimately their performance (the division began operating
in early 2009, although it was not formally established until parliament approved in September
2009 the Public Enterprise Monitoring Act).




                                                  6
1.5     Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

The policy areas were not revised.

1.6     Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The operation‘s design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and
funding allocations were not changed during project execution.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

The government successfully implemented its agreed reform program. Details are presented in
the table below.

Table 1: Program Prior Actions
Prior actions from Legal Agreement                                                        Status
    The Borrower has adopted the Government Finance Statistics classification for        Fulfilled
    preparing the budget and for monitoring budget performance, thereby enhancing
    the credibility of budget execution.
    The Borrower has enacted the Public Procurement Act, 2008, modernizing and           Fulfilled
    harmonizing procurement regulations and procedures, enhancing transparency,
    competitiveness and efficiency, and introducing strict and uniform requirements
    governing competitive bidding procedures.
    The Borrower has through a combination of early departure and voluntary              Fulfilled
    retirement schemes met the 12.5 percent target for reducing employment in the
    public sector.
    The Borrower has secured cabinet approval of the Memorandum of Action on             Fulfilled
    Public Administration and Public Sector Reform Policies, the objective of which is
    to bring about a modern and efficient administration, consolidate public sector
    reforms and roll-back the role of the government in commercial activities.
    The Borrower has enacted the Social Welfare Agency Act 2008, introducing a           Fulfilled
    simple and effective program to provide targeted cash assistance to vulnerable
    segments of the population, and establishing the Social Welfare Agency to
    administer the program.
    The Borrower has restructured the Seychelles Marketing Board, discontinuing          Fulfilled
    some of its operations and separating the rest to be managed as separate units,
    privatizing the profitable business units and liquidating the loss-making ones.

2.2     Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Several factors contributed to the satisfactory performance of the operation.

First, the program‘s analytical underpinnings were strong. At the government‘s request, the
Bank team mobilized international experts to thoroughly analyze policy options to strengthen


                                                   7
budget management, to reform the public administration, and to improve the delivery of health
and education services. The resulting 2009 PER provided important recommendations to the
government and served as the basis for the Bank‘s policy dialogue with the authorities. The
European Union-funded Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability assessment prepared in
2008 helped to illuminate strengths and weaknesses of the country‘s public financial
management system. The 2009 policy note on administrative barriers to investment in the
Seychelles—which updated the 2005 study prepared by the Foreign Investment Advisory
Service (FIAS) of the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation—recommended
measures to reduce unnecessary obstacles posed by the regulatory regime to private sector
investment and growth. The IMF-supported work, including the central bank‘s safeguards
assessment, a report by IMF‘s Fiscal Affairs Department on budget management, and staff
reports related to the Stand-By Arrangement and the first and second reviews of the arrangement,
further helped in developing policy options for macro and fiscal management. The joint Bank
and Fund debt sustainability analyses carried out in 2008 and 2009 helped make the case for debt
relief of Paris Club and other creditors.

Second, the operation‘s prior actions were drawn from a reform program which the government
specified and to which it was fully committed. The program reflected the authorities‘ realistic
assessment of the public‘s support for change. Thus the reform program, while unusually
ambitious, fit the country context well.

Third, a well-designed and implemented communications strategy enabled the government to
explain the program‘s objectives to citizens and to respond to their proposals for improvement.
The president, the cabinet, principal secretaries, members of parliament, and chief executive
officers of parastatals traveled throughout the country to discuss the program and to listen to
concerns of citizens. The events were broadcast on local television and radio stations and were
reported in The Nation newspaper the following day. The state house also issued a monthly
newsletter that summarized the government‘s priority reforms and their outcomes.9 The
newsletter was distributed to all government ministries and agencies and was posted on the state
house website. These measures proved effective in building consensus among citizens for
reform, as demonstrated by the lack of organized public resistance to the changes. Fourth, the
government put into place measures to ease the short-term impact of the reforms on the most-
affected groups. Thus, it provided opportunities for training and job placement to people who
left the public service either under the voluntary departure scheme or through cuts in non-core
positions. In addition, it provided income support equivalent to one-year‘s salary to civil
servants who exited because they occupied positions considered non-core. Other initiatives to
ease the transition from public to private sector employment involved assistance with forming
worker cooperatives (cleaners and security guards), and help with starting and operating a
business.

2.3       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

Design. The program document included a policy matrix clearly setting out prior actions,
milestones, and expected outcomes. The outcome indicators are well-specified with baseline and


9
      The state house continues to issue the monthly newsletters and post them on its website.


                                                           8
target values and clear sources of information for measurement. In line with good practice, the
data required to track progress come from publicly-available sources of information, rather than
from DPL-specific surveys. To further strengthen capacity for statistics, the Bank in 2009
approved a grant under the Statistical Capacity Building Trust Fund for the Seychelles. Several
of the statistical series that are to be developed—national income accounts and labor market
statistics—will improve the ability of the authorities to reliably track economic performance
generally, although not specific to the indicators of the DPL.

Implementation. The Bank team closely monitored progress with implementation of the reform
program, discussing progress in each reform area with the authorities during the DPL missions.
Two Bank specialists, one on public sector reform and the other on private sector development
carried on the dialogue with the authorities in these areas, and participated in several DPL
missions. The team also engaged in dialogue on key issues during the missions to prepare
analytical work and the Interim Strategy Note.

Utilization. The government and Bank teams used the monitoring information to identify areas
of particular challenge and to develop measures to address them. For example, the teams noted
the challenges facing the Department of Public Administration in implementing public sector
reforms. Together, they prepared a proposal to the Bank‘s Institutional Development Fund for
technical assistance and training to develop its capacity for change management, project
management, fiscal impact assessments of reforms of the public administration, and evaluation
of alternative service delivery models. The government and Bank teams have drawn on the
outcome information in designing DPL 2, tailoring support in ways that are likely to achieve
results.

2.4    Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

The Minister of Finance requested a second DPL to support the 2010 budget to help deepen the
reforms already underway and to address emerging challenges. The Board approved the DPL 2
at the meeting held on November 23, 2010. The objective of DPL 2 is to assist the Republic of
Seychelles to improve public sector effectiveness and to improve the business environment. It
supports public administration reforms, public financial management reforms, public enterprise
reforms, and business environment reforms to reduce the administrative barriers to doing
business.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Overall rating: Highly satisfactory

Objectives. The program‘s overall objectives were, and remain, relevant. They reflect the
importance of establishing a stable macroeconomic environment and sustainable fiscal
framework for growth. As mentioned in section 1.1, the operation‘s objectives are consistent
with the objectives of Seychelles‘s reform program and with the Bank‘s Interim Strategy Note



                                                9
for fiscal 2009–11, both of which recognize the importance of sound macroeconomic and fiscal
management to underpin economic and social development.

Design. The design was, and remains, relevant. The program included a small number of reform
actions that global experience and Seychelles-specific analytical work indicated were necessary
to stabilize the macroeconomic framework and put the country on a path of sustainable growth.
Thus, the program included reduction of public expenditures by reducing the staff of the public
administration, by eliminating most universal subsidies, by lowering subsidies to state-owned
enterprises and encouraging their improved performance, and by gaining value for money in
public procurement. To mitigate the impact of the reforms on vulnerable groups, the program
included targeted social assistance for those with insufficient income to meet basic requirements.
It also involved support for training and job placement for those leaving the public
administration and for other unemployed workers. The program was developed in close
coordination with the IMF, to ensure that it reflected the expertise of both institutions, but did not
duplicate the Fund‘s program.

Implementation. Implementation arrangements were relevant. The Ministry of Finance was the
executing agency because of its central role in managing the fiscal framework, in determining
the pace and scale of privatization, and in coordinating policy within government. The
Department of Public Administration was appropriately responsible for public sector reforms.
The National Tender Board was responsible for implementing the provisions of the National
Procurement Act related to large public procurements. The Social Welfare Agency was charged
with implementing the new means-tested social welfare scheme.

3.2     Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations
and outcomes)

Overall rating: Highly Satisfactory

The operation achieved its development objectives of helping the Seychelles establish a stable
macroeconomic environment and sustainable fiscal framework. Through introduction of reforms
and support of the IMF, the Bank, and other development partners, the government has stabilized
the economy. Following a contraction in 2009, due mainly to a decline in tourism earnings, GDP
is projected to grow by 4 percent in 2010 as tourism and related services recover, revenues from
tuna exports climb, and foreign direct investment increases. The total stock of public debt has
fallen nearly by half from 137 percent of GDP in 2008 to an estimated 82 percent of GDP by the
end of July 2010, and external debt stocks declined from 83 percent of GDP to 54 percent of GDP
over the same period. The DPL‘s outcome indicators have largely been achieved. Specifically:

      The primary balance rose. The primary balance rose from a deficit in 2007 of –2.0
       percent of GDP to a surplus in 2009 of 14.8 percent including grants (11.4 percent of




                                                 10
        GDP excluding grants). This significantly exceeds the original program target of a
        surplus of 6.2 percent of GDP including grants. 10

       National Tender Board has been established and is fully functioning. The National
        Tender Board was established on January 14, 2009 with a mission to protect public funds,
        to achieve economic efficiency in purchasing, to promote transparency in all aspects of
        procurement, and to promote fair and equal opportunity for all. The tender board has the
        authority to approve the award of contracts above a value of SR 500,000 for goods and
        services, SR 750,000 for civil works, and SR 150,000 for consultancies. The board
        compares tenders for any project or purchase in light of the evaluation by the procuring
        entities‘ tender assessment and ensures that the lowest priced compliant bidder (in the
        case of simple procurement) or that the most economically advantageous bidder (striking
        a balance between price and quality) is selected for the contract award. As of December
        31, 2009, some 66 contracts had been subject to National Tender Board procedures, of
        which 58 were approved, 6 were returned for retender, and 2 were deemed to fall outside
        the Board‘s mandate. Contracts awarded in 2009 by the board totaled SR 226.2 million.
        The board estimates that its decisions have resulted directly in savings of SR 9.1 million.
        Savings are almost certainly higher due the new transparency in procurement brought
        about through the oversight of the board. The government plans to undertake an in-depth
        analysis of the increases in value for money achieved since the National Tender
        commenced operations.

       Staff of the public administration fell by 15 percent. The number of civil servants and
        parastatal employees fell from 16,615 in April 2008 to 14,075 in April 2009, as the
        government privatized parastatals and eliminated non-core civil service positions.11 By
        end December 2009, the number of public sector employees had risen slightly to 14,140,
        but this was still 15 percent lower than in April 2008.

       The public sector wage bill fell in relation to GDP. The public sector wage bill fell
        from 10.2 percent of GDP in 2007 to 7.1 percent of GDP in 2009.12 This is lower than
        the original forecast for 2009 of 7.5 percent of GDP. Preliminary estimates show the
        public sector wage bill to have fallen to 6.6 percent of GDP in 2010. It is expected to
        stabilize in 2011 at about 6.9 percent of GDP, once the contracting out of public services
        is complete.

       The Social Welfare Agency was established and is fully functioning in all 25 districts
        of the Seychelles. The government enacted the Social Welfare Agency Act in October
        2008, establishing the Social Welfare Agency to administer the program. By August
        2009, some 3,000 households were receiving benefits from the new agency. The Social
        Welfare Agency is processing an average of about 700 new applications per month, but


10
     IMF estimates. The consolidated government primary balance from above the line on a commitment basis is
defined as total consolidated government and social security fund revenues (excluding privatization and long-term
lease income receipts) less all noninterest (primary) expenditures of the government and social security fund .
11
     Employment data are from the National Statistics Bureau.
12
     IMF estimates.


                                                        11
      the total number of households being assisted has declined from a peak of about 3,450
      reached in August 2009, to 2,400 in December 2009, where it has remained on average,
      as the economy stabilized and former recipients of assistance found employment (see
      figure 1). As the agency has been in operation for over one year, a policy decision must
      now be made on how to handle cases of people receiving assistance for the maximum
      one-year period. Such cases tend to be difficult to solve. Thus far the agency has
      continued to provide assistance in exchange for community service and evidence that
      recipients are actively trying to tackle problems that are keeping them out of the labor
      force.

                     Figure 1: Welfare Claimants and Payments, 2009-2010
                                     4,000
       No. of Household Recipients




                                     3,500
                                     3,000
                                     2,500
                                     2,000
                                     1,500
                                     1,000
                                      500
                                         -
                                                                                 August




                                                                                                                                                                                               August
                                                                                                      October




                                                                                                                                                February
                                             March




                                                                                                                           December



                                                                                                                                                           March
                                                     April




                                                                                                                                                                   April
                                                                                                                                      January
                                                             May
                                                                   June




                                                                                                                                                                           May
                                                                                                                                                                                 June
                                                                                                                November
                                                                          July




                                                                                                                                                                                        July
                                                                                          September




    Source: Social Welfare Agency.


     Overall subsidies of the government to former Seychelles Marketing Board fell to
      zero in 2009. The government in 2008 restructured the Seychelles Marketing Board,
      transferring the assets to four separate new companies: Coetivy Prawns Limited,
      Seychelles Agro Industries Limited, Seychelles Hatcheries and Feeds Limited, Seychelles
      Trading Company Limited (STC). The government absorbed the liabilities of the
      marketing board. In late 2008, the government sold Seychelles Agro Industries Limited
      to local investors and Seychelles Hatcheries and Feeds Limited to a farmers‘ cooperative.
      It liquidated Coetivy Prawns Limited. The STC—which remains in state hands—has
      taken over the role of guaranteeing the supply of essential commodities and of operating
      the tea and coffee and toilet paper units. However, it plays a much more limited role in
      the market than previously, and receives no privileges relative to other firms, such as
      access to foreign exchange or monopoly rights to import and sell commodities. The STC
      received no subsidies from the government in 2009, down from SR 68 million in 2007,
      and made a profit before taxes of SR 56 million. It is expected to pay a dividend to the
      government in 2010. The Public Enterprise Monitoring Division holds up the STC as a
      model of how public enterprises should act.



                                                                                                                    12
      Operating subsidies from central government to state owned enterprises fell. In
       addition to eliminating subsidies to the former Seychelles Marketing Board, the
       government sharply reduced operating subsidies to other state owned enterprises. These
       fell from SR 239.3 million in 2007 to SR 78.5 million in 2008 and to SR 47.5 million in
       2009. Overall subsidies including capital grants also fell, from SR 265.1 million in 2007
       to SR 111.1 million in 2008. However, the government in 2009 made a large capital
       grant to the Public Utilities Corporation, increasing overall subsidies to SR 168 million.

       Table 2: Operating Subsidies and Capital Grants to State Owned Enterprises, SR
       000s
                                                       2007             2008             2009
       Operating subsidies
       Seychelles Investment Bureau                        4,357            3,000             2,530
       Islands Development Company                         8,000            7,000                 0
       Seychelles Public Transport Corporation            15,000           14,611                 0
       Property Management Corporation                     5,700            5,700                 0
       Seychelles Institute of Management                  8,421            9,221             8,344
       Small Enterprise Promotion Agency                   3,500            3,500             4,128
       Seychelles Broadcasting Corporation                25,000           35,500            32,500
       L'Union Estate Company                              1,799                0                 0
       Public Utilities Corporation                       77,000                0                 0
       SMB                                                68,000                0                 0
       Indian Ocean Tuna Ltd                              22,500                0                 0
                         Subtotal                        239,277           78,532            47,502
       Capital grants
       Seychelles Public Transport Corporation                 0            5,389             8,750
       Seychelles Broadcasting Corporation                 5,000            5,000             4,947
       Public Utilities Corporation                       15,828           22,135           106,801
       Island Development Company                          5,000                0                 0
                         Subtotal                         25,828           32,524           120,498
                                          Total          265,105          111,056           167,999

    Source: Ministry of Finance

Although progress is being made, two outcome targets have been more difficult to meet than
expected. These are:

      The Social Welfare Agency is drawing on relevant government databases to
       establish eligibility of claimants, as provided for in the Social Welfare Agency Act.
       The agency had not by early 2010 been able to fully link its databases with other
       government databases, due in part to lack of capacity at the Information Communications
       Technology Department of the Ministry of National Development and in part to a need to
       agree a policy between agencies to secure the integrity of the data. The agency is
       actively seeking a solution to the challenge.

      Claimants receive response from Social Welfare Agency within 10 days. The agency
       has not been able to meet this target, largely because its databases are still not linked to


                                                  13
        other relevant government databases. As a result, agency staff must verify claimants‘
        information through direct communication with the other agencies or by visiting their
        households. The agency is achieving a target of 14 days in responding to requests for
        social assistance.

The program‘s outcomes indicators are presented in annex 2.

3.4   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

Rating: HS

Achievement of the objectives of the operation is rated highly satisfactory. The operation
objectives, design, and implementation arrangements were and remain relevant. The operation
achieved its intended outcomes. High relevance and highly satisfactory achievement of
objectives justifies an overall outcome rating of highly satisfactory for the operation.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Since the reforms were expected in the short run to reduce the purchasing power of Seychellois,
the program included several measures aimed at mitigating the impact of the reforms on the poor
and vulnerable. Specifically, the program supported the establishment of Social Welfare Agency
funded by the government‘s budget, whose mission is to ensure that people with low incomes
due to unemployment are able to meet their basic needs. The new targeted welfare scheme
replaced a system of universal subsidies and price controls for specific commodities, which was
both costly and inefficient. The Social Welfare Agency is receiving capacity building support
from the United Nations Development Program and from the World Bank (through fee-based
services) to improve its efficiency and effectiveness in reaching the poor, while preventing abuse.
To assist people who have left the public service under either the voluntary departure scheme or
the mandatory redundancy scheme, the government offers retraining opportunities in tourism,
retail, office management, offshore services, and own-business management to enable them to
acquire the skills required to obtain employment in the private sector. The National Human
Resources Development Council is managing the national training fund, while existing
institutions—including, the Seychelles Institute of Management, the Seychelles Tourism
Academy, the Small Enterprise Promotion Agency, and the Seychelles International Business
Authority—provide the training. As of November 2009, about 134 people of 1,490 who had
voluntarily left the civil service had completed one of the training programs. Some 91 people
made redundant are currently enrolled in a retraining program. Participants in the latter program
receive allowances for one year equivalent to their final salaries and sign a contract specifying
their responsibilities. Nearly all the former civil servants who have completed the training
programs have found employment in the private sector or have started their own businesses.
Many of those who dropped out did so because they had found a new job. Overall, the impact on
employment of the economic reform program has been positive and the number of people



                                                   14
working steadily increased in aggregate, as more private sector jobs compensated for the loss of
jobs in the public sector in 2009 (see figure 2).

Figure 2: Employment Before and During Economic Reform Program, 2006-2009
                          50000
                          45000
                          40000
       Numbers Employed




                          35000
                          30000                                  Employment
                          25000                                  Private Sector
                          20000                                  Public Sector
                          15000                                  Parastatals
                          10000
                           5000
                              0

                                   Nov
                                   Apr


                                    Jul
                                   Aug




                                   Dec
                                  May
                                   Feb




                                   Sep
                                   Mar




                                   Oct
                                  2006
                                  2007
                                  2008




                                   Jun
                                   Jan




    Source: National Bureau of Statistics.

The National Statistics Bureau is currently undertaking a national census, which is expected to
provide some information on the impact of the government‘s reform program on citizen‘s
welfare, supplementing data from the poverty assessment carried out in 2007/08. Over the
medium-term, the flotation of the Seychelles rupee, liberalization of domestic prices, and
elimination of state monopolies are expected to promote dynamic private sector led growth over
the next decade and to create new employment opportunities.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The operation helped to bring about key policy and institutional reforms in several areas. To
strengthen public financial management, the operation assisted the Ministry of Finance to
strengthen its budget preparation and execution processes. Starting in 2008, the ministry adopted
Government Finance Statistics classification for preparing the budget and for monitoring budget
performance. It also issued binding ministerial expenditure ceilings to guide preparation of the
budget. The ministry commenced issuing quarterly fiscal monitoring reports to enhance budget
management, enabling decision makers to detect and address problems soon after they arise. The
ministry in 2009/2010 has further deepened public financial management by establishing the
fiscal analysis branch in the Ministry of Finance that is responsible for producing internally
consistent projections of the main macroeconomic variables—GDP growth, inflation rates,
exchange rate, interest rates, and unemployment—which is being used to underpin the 2011
budget.

To promote transparency of public procurement and achieve value for money, the operation
supported the enactment of the Public Procurement Act, 2008. The act modernized and


                                               15
harmonized procurement regulations and procedures, established the Public Procurement
Oversight Unit to serve as the procurement policy making and monitoring body, and created the
National tender Board to receive and publicly open bids and to review the recommendations of
bid evaluation committees and approve or reject the award of a contract. The institutional
changes brought about by the adoption of the new act are estimated to have already resulted in
significant savings of public funds.

To create a more efficient civil service and public administration, the operation assisted with the
preparation and implementation of a comprehensive memorandum of action aimed at right-sizing
the public administration and at laying the basis for a performance-oriented work culture. The
government has already implemented many of the actions, including eliminating non-core
positions and adopting a new wage system to enable the public sector to attract and retain
qualified and high-performing staff. Government commitment to the reform program has been
unwavering. In 2010 the government has fully applied a new and simplified wage grid.
Importantly, with the introduction of the wage grid a complex allowances system that was used
to supplement low monthly salaries has been eliminated, ensuring a significant improvement in
transparency and fiscal management.

To establish a social welfare system that is effective in protecting the poor and vulnerable, yet
maintains incentives to work, the operation supported the enactment of the Social Welfare Act
and the creation of the Social Welfare Agency to implement its provisions. The new targeted
system has replaced a system of universal subsidies that was unaffordable and distorted
incentives. The new system has been in place for over a year, and the government is now
reviewing its strengths and weaknesses and exploring options for strengthening the targeting of
assistance, ensuring that the type and level of assistance is appropriate, and improving the
efficiency of its administration.

To reduce the role of the state in the economy, the operation supported the restructuring of the
former State Marketing Board, privatizing most of its profitable operations and liquidating its
loss making ones. This is significant because the former marketing board received about 28
percent of all subsidies to state-owned enterprises. In addition to restructuring the marketing
board, the government reorganized its parastatal sector to ensure that parastatals serve only core
functions, with others spun off from government control and responsibility. Among those spun
off are the International Conference Centre, the biodiversity center, and the botanical gardens.
This has resulted in the reduction or elimination of many other subsidies to state-owned
enterprises, freeing resources for delivery of key services and promoting a more efficient
allocation of resources across the economy.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low.




                                                16
Government commitment to the overall reform agenda and its capacity to implement reforms are
strong, as indicated by its continuing to deepen reforms that it initiated following the 2008
economic crisis and debt default. The government‘s decision to seek support from the IMF
under the Stand-By Arrangement and later under a three-year Extended Fund Facility also
indicates a commitment to put into place sounder policies of economic management. Its
willingness to seek assistance from the Bank and other development partners to design and
implement reforms in a range of areas is further evidence of commitment. The risk to
sustainability of outcomes in each policy area is presented below.

The risk to strengthen budget management is negligible to low. As mentioned above, the
government has steadily implemented its plans to improve budget management. It is currently
preparing a macro framework that will guide the budget preparation process, including the
issuance of binding sector ceilings. It is also continuing to consolidate the budget consistent with
the definitions in the IMF‘s Government Finance Statistics Manual. An action plan has been
adopted to implement the combined recommendations of the Public Expenditure and Financial
Accountability Report (PEFA), Public Expenditure Reviews and IMF‘s Fiscal Affairs
Department reports.13

The risk to improving governance and accountability of public procurement is negligible to
low. The government recognizes the benefits of following transparent procurement procedures
designed to provide equal opportunities for all and to generate value for money. It is now
preparing to exercise greater control over district-level procurement, where much of the abuse
takes place. It is also seeking capacity building assistance from development partners in
techniques for detecting procurement fraud.

The risk to creating a more efficient civil service and public administration is negligible to
low. The government has already implemented the most difficult aspects of the reform:
eliminating non-core positions, introducing new job descriptions and assigning staff to specific
jobs and grades, putting into place a new wage grid, and adopting a performance appraisal
system. The government has also reorganized several previously budget-dependent parastatals
into autonomous financially self-sustaining entities. While the government encountered some
resistance from some affected entities during the early stages of the reforms, it made an intensive
effort to communicate the objectives of the changes and offered training and job placement
assistance to people leaving the civil service. The next steps are to consolidate the changes
already made, ensuring that civil servants are in the appropriate job and grade, and building
capacity for effective service delivery. As referred to in Section 2.3 an Institutional
Development Fund grant from the World Bank approved in 2009 is helping to build capacity of
the Department of Public Administration for change management, project management, and
other areas needed to improve its effectiveness.

The risk to establishing a well-targeted social safety net is negligible to low. The government
recognizes the significant benefits of operating a targeted social welfare system rather than a


13
    The EC-funded ―Public Financial Management Performance‖ was the 2008 PEFA. The relevant IMF FAD
reports are: ―A Strategy for Strengthening Budget Management‖ (2008) and ―Further Steps Towards Fiscal
Management‖ (2009).


                                                    17
system of universal subsidies. These include reduced demands on public expenditures and
stronger incentives to work. The government is reviewing the social welfare policy to ensure
that it maintains appropriate incentives to work, but does not deprive truly deserving people of
critical assistance. The government is also benefiting from technical assistance from the United
Nations Development Program and from the World Bank to improve the agency‘s targeting
mechanisms and to reduce the cost of administering the program.

The risk to reducing the role of the state in commercial areas of the economy is moderate.
The benefits to the public finances from the reduced subsidies to state-owned enterprises have
been significant. Ending the monopoly rights of the former Seychelles Marketing Board over the
importation of specific commodities and preferential access to foreign exchange has resulted in
many new firms entering the market and offering better prices and more choice for consumers.
These measures, which enjoy broad popular support, are not likely to be reversed. The staff of
the newly formed Seychelles Trading Corporation are now able to focus on their core
commercial functions and there is visible improvement in the operations of the company and
improved financial performance. Moreover, the government has established the Public
Enterprise Monitoring Division in the Ministry of Finance to monitor performance of public
entities, to work with boards and governing bodies to improve performance, and to recommend
measures—including reorganization, corporatization, privatization, liquidation, and mergers—to
improve the use of public resources in the future. However, further reducing the role of the state
in the economy may prove challenging, as people who benefit from the current regime may resist
reforms that threaten their interests.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: S

The Bank‘s overall performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. The Bank‘s
performance in identification was satisfactory. Responding to government‘s request in 2008 for
assistance in dealing with the economic crisis, the Bank mobilized a team of experts to assist the
government in identifying specific reforms to strengthen macroeconomic and fiscal management
and to improve the functioning of the public sector, especially in the delivery of health and
education services. This work was undertaken in the 2009 PER. The Bank also worked closely
with the IMF to ensure that the Bank‘s program complemented the Fund‘s program supported
under the Stand-By Arrangement. Finally, it consulted regularly with the African Development
Bank and the European Commission, which were the other development partners providing
budget support, to ensure that all worked together in support of the government‘s objectives.

The Bank‘s performance in preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. In addition to the 2009
Public Expenditure Review, the Bank drew on several pieces of analytical work to prepare the
reform program. The 2008 Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability assessment funded


                                                18
by the European Commission highlighted the areas of public financial management that were
particularly in need of strengthening. The 2009 study on administrative barriers to investment
Foreign Investment Advisory Service emphasized the importance of reducing the role of the state
in the economy to attract private sector development. The joint Bank and Fund debt
sustainability analyses carried out during 2008 and 2009 ensured that the operation would fit
within the government‘s medium-term debt management strategy.

The Bank‘s DPL team included staff from the relevant sectors, who were leading the dialogue in
their areas of expertise. The program document candidly assessed the risks the operation would
face and identified adequate mitigation measures to protect the Bank‘s reputation and to preserve
the gains from the policy reforms should challenges emerge. The operation‘s design also
reflected lessons learned from experience in Seychelles, in other small island states, and in other
countries undertaking far-reaching reforms. The monitoring and evaluation framework
contained well-specified outcome indicators and baseline and target values.

Finally, the operation was prepared in close consultation with the Bank team preparing the
Bank‘s Interim Strategy Note for 2010–2011 to ensure that it fully supported the objectives of
the strategy. Indeed the operation was discussed by the Board together with the ISN in
November 2009.

(b)     Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)

Rating: S

The Seychelles DPL was a stand-alone single tranche operation and was approved based on the
fulfillment of prior actions, so supervision was technically not necessary. Nonetheless, the Bank
team maintained a regular dialogue with policy makers and technical staff on progress with
implementing the reform program, as part of their regular dialogue with the government and to
prepare the DPL 2. DPL 2 while also a stand-alone operation, was nonetheless developed in a
programmatic manner so that the policy dialogue initiated under the first DPL was also taken
forward. The team also regularly discussed aspects of the reform program with the Fund and
with other development partners to ensure that all were working towards common goals. In
addition, the team prepared a second Public Expenditure Review to deepen understanding of
labor market rigidities and of issues with corporate governance that may impede growth of
private sector growth and employment.

The Bank has also continued to assist the authorities and build capacity in implementation of the
reforms supported by the DPL through a fee-based services project agreed with the government
in June 2010. Specifically implementation of public enterprise reforms, and the implementation
of the social safety net are benefitting from this technical assistance.

The Bank‘s sector specialists closely monitored progress with reforms in the areas of their
expertise, including public sector reform and private sector development. Although two Bank
staff served in the role of task team leader during preparation of the operation, the second was
thoroughly familiar with the issues because she served as country economist prior to taking over.



                                                19
The preparation of the Implementation Completion and Results report was based on a mission in
May 2010 to discuss in depth the operation and its outcomes with all the key ministries and
agencies involved.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: S

The Bank‘s overall performance was satisfactory. In lending, the Bank responded to the
government‘s request to support its reform program under a development policy operation. It
mobilized a team of experts to prepare a PER that focused on areas of priority concern to the
government: the management of the macroeconomic and fiscal frameworks and the functioning
of the public administration. The Bank team also drew on existing analytical work of the Bank,
the Fund, and other development partners to advise the government on effective approaches to
achieving its reform objectives. In supervision, the Bank maintained a close dialogue with
policy makers and technical staff on progress with implementation. It also discussed issues with
the Fund and other development partners to ensure that all were aware of what the others were
doing so that all could work together in support of the government‘s program. In addition, it
mobilized a new team of experts in response to government‘s request to prepare a second PER
that analyzes labor market and corporate governance issues and recommends reforms to promote
private sector development. A rating of satisfactory for ensuring quality at entry and a rating of
satisfactory for supervision justify an overall rating of satisfactory for Bank performance.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance

Rating: HS

The government‘s performance was highly satisfactory. Government commitment to the overall
reform program as laid out in the policy matrix of the DPL has remained strong. The
government‘s commitment to maintaining overall macroeconomic stability (and thus an enabling
environment) was highly satisfactory, as demonstrated by its achievement of all quantitative
performance criteria and structural benchmarks under the Fund-supported Stand-By
Arrangement by September 2009 and the quantitative performance criteria and structural
benchmarks under the Fund-supported Extended Fund Facility through end-August 2010.

The government appointed the Minister of Finance to coordinate the overall reform program and
to serve as the main point of contact for the Bank team. He was instrumental in pushing forward
reforms whenever they stalled, tirelessly explaining why they were necessary to both other
government officials and to the general public. Based on his excellent performance, the
government in August 2010 appointed the Minister of Finance to the position of vice president,
and he now serves in both roles. The government also appointed high-level staff within the
participating ministries and agencies to oversee implementation of sector-specific reforms. This
greatly facilitated communication and monitoring of progress by the Bank team. To overcome



                                                20
capacity weaknesses, the government helped to mobilize support from development partners to
design specific reforms. For example, it mobilized support from the Commonwealth Secretariat
to develop a new civil service wage grid, and from Australia Aid to help build capacity of
Seychellois to prepare an internally consistent macroeconomic framework, and the guidelines for
improved corporate governance. Finally, the government implemented a systematic
communications strategy to explain the objectives and expected outcomes of the reform program
and to address questions and concerns of the public.

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: HS

The performance of the Ministry of Finance was highly satisfactory. The ministry dramatically
improved its fiscal monitoring and control, which resulted in a high primary surplus in 2009
from a deficit two years earlier. The ministry established the Public Enterprise Monitoring
Division, which is playing an important role in improving the performance of state-owned
enterprises and their contribution to the economy of the country. The ministry also established
the financial analysis branch which was responsible for preparing a medium-term fiscal
framework and ensuring that the fiscal outlook was consistent with the macroeconomic
framework, further improving budget credibility.

It also took the difficult decisions to restructure/privatize/liquidate specific state-owned
enterprises. Together, these measures have resulted in a significant decline in subsidies to state-
owned enterprises. The Minister of Finance and his team effectively coordinated the reforms led
by other ministries and agencies, holding weekly meetings (every Friday morning) with the
officials responsible to follow progress and to help overcome obstacles. He also communicated
effectively with the president, technical staff at the ministries and agencies, and the Bank team.

The performance of the participating ministries and agencies was highly satisfactory. The
Department of Public Administration prepared and adopted the Memorandum of Action Public
Administration and Public Sector Reform Policies and methodically tracked progress with its
implementation. The Director of National Tender Board, once appointed, hired qualified staff
and put into place procedures to enable the board to effectively carry out its responsibilities. The
Director of the Social Welfare Agency has ensured that the entity effectively achieves its
mandate.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: HS

The overall performance of the borrower was highly satisfactory. The government implemented
reforms that rapidly stabilized the macroeconomic framework, including negotiating debt
forgiveness by Paris Club and other private and official creditors. It also demonstrated its
commitment to the specific reforms laid out in the policy matrix of the DPL, facilitating the
adoption of key policies, legislation, and regulations, and promoting their implementation. The
Ministry of Finance performed ably, implementing reforms under its direct responsibility and



                                                21
effectively coordinating those under the responsibility of others, intervening when necessary to
resolve implementation challenges. A rating of highly satisfactory for government performance
and of highly satisfactory for implementing agency performance results in an overall rating of
highly satisfactory for Borrower performance.

6.     Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)

      A well-designed and methodically implemented communications strategy can help
       build public support for reform. The far-reaching changes in the government‘s role in
       the Seychelles would not have been possible without a skillfully-designed
       communications strategy which continues to be implemented today. As mentioned in
       section 2.2, the president and key government officials traveled throughout the country to
       explain to citizens the objectives of the reform program, its specific design features, and
       its expected outcomes, and to address their concerns. Many different types of media
       were involved in the communications efforts, including newspapers, television, posting
       of information on government websites, and distribution of newsletters. The
       communications initiatives have been effective, as demonstrated by a lack of organized
       public protest to the changes. However, despite its success, there is more for the
       government to do to strengthen its communications. For example, farmers complain that
       they did not know in advance of government‘s decision to sharply reduce tariffs on the
       importation of frozen chicken, which damaged farmers‘ businesses. An announcement
       well in advance of the date of effectiveness would have allowed farmers to adjust.

      Offering training and job placement services to people leaving the civil service helps
       to reduce resistance to public sector reform and facilitates the transition to private-
       sector led growth. As described in section 2.2, the government offered assistance to
       former civil servants in obtaining employment in the private sector. People made
       redundant because of the elimination of non-core positions in the public service are
       offered the opportunity to participate in training programs for up to one year, while
       drawing an allowance equivalent to their previous salary. This has the potential of
       providing relatively low-skilled people with higher level skills, and thus permanently
       higher incomes. The provision of opportunities to build skills and assistance in finding
       new employment have been important in reducing the size of the civil service and in
       promoting a transition to a private-sector led economic system.

      Having in place a social welfare system that protects the truly needy is essential to
       facilitate a reduction of the role of the state in the economy. The Seychellois have
       long valued a fairly equal distribution of income and opportunities. A reduction in the
       role of the state in the economy will inevitably result in a widening of the gap between
       the better off and less well off, which could strain social relations. Having in place an
       effective safety net that ensures that people who are truly deserving are able to meet their
       essential needs helps in maintaining a social compact as the state withdraws from its role
       as provider of universal subsidies.




                                                22
       Establishing a good system for monitoring and evaluation helps to keep
        implementation of reforms on track. To better understand and control public
        expenditures, the government has greatly strengthened its monitoring systems in several
        areas. The Ministry of Finance created the Public Enterprise Monitoring Division to
        track performance of state owned enterprises. The ministry also requested its financial
        planning and control department to issue quarterly budget monitoring reports that
        disclose budget outturns relative to projections. These are generating important
        information to keep public spending in line with targets. The government is also
        strengthening the statistics bureau to better track national income, employment, and other
        data, essential for making better decisions in the future.

       Providing technical assistance for design of the reform program is critical to success
        in an environment of mixed capacity. Seychelles‘s small population makes it
        impossible to have expertise in the wide variety of areas now required to operate a
        modern economy. To supplement local expertise, the government requested assistance
        from international experts to help design reforms in a wide variety of areas, including
        fiscal management, public administration functioning, delivery of health and education
        services, design and operation of a social safety net, tax policy and administration,
        development of a macroeconomic framework, and options for specific state owned
        enterprises. The experts have worked closely with their Seychelles counterparts to
        develop local capacity in each of these areas. Having such capacity in country has
        proven essential in implementing and now deepening reforms.

       Creating effective partnerships with the IMF and other donors in designing the
        proposed program increases the likelihood of success. The Bank and the IMF
        consulted closely on the design and implementation of the Fund‘s Stand-By Arrangement
        and the Extended Fund Facility, and of the Bank‘s DPL to ensure the consistency and
        quality of their dialogue on macro issues. Moreover, the Bank team worked closely with
        the IMF team to ensure that the programs of each reflected their comparative advantages.
        The Bank team has also consulted regularly with the African Development Bank and the
        European Commission to ensure that all are working together in support of the
        government‘s reform program.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)     Borrower/Implementing agencies

See annex 3.

(b)     Cofinanciers

None.




                                                23
(c)    Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

None.




                                           24
Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)   Task Team members
P114822 - Development Policy Loan
                                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                       Title                 Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Cevdet Denizer            Lead Economist                  PFCIR Former task team leader
Tracey Lane               Senior Economist                AFTP2 Task team leader
Tony Verheijen            Senior Public Sector Specialist AFTPR Public sector reform
Wendy S. Ayres            M&E Specialist and Economist    AFTP2 M&E and ICR
Pia Schneider             Senior Health Economist         IEGSE Health reforms
Csaba Feher               Senior Economist                ECSPE Pensions
Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza Senior Counsel                  LEGAF Legal
Luis Schwarz              Senior Finance Officer          CTRFC Disbursement
Peter Moock               Consultant                      AFTP2 Education reforms
Henry Amuguni             Financial Management Specialist AFTFM Financial management
Patrick Umah Tete         Senior Financial Management     AFTFM Financial management
                          Specialist
Dahir Warsame             Senior Procurement Specialist   AFTPC Procurement


(b)    Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                                 USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                             Total:             18                           165,715
Supervision/ICR
                             Total:                3                           29,544




                                              25
                             Annex 2: Program Development Outcome Indicators
                                                                                    Actual Value
                                        Baseline
                                                           Original Target           Achieved at
           Indicator                  (2008 unless                                                           Comments
                                                               Values                Completion
                                    otherwise noted)
                                                                                  (September 2010)
 Strengthen budget management
 Primary balance (including   −2.0 percent of       More than 6.2                14.8 percent of          Target exceeded
 grants) in percent of GDP         GDP             percent of GDP                GDP, including
 rises                           (2007)14                                        grants
Improve governance and accountability of public procurement
National Tender Board       Not established      Established and                 Established on           Target met
established and fully                            fully functioning               January 14, 2009
functioning                                                                      and fully
                                                                                 functioning
Create a more efficient civil service and public administration
Staff of the public              16,615 civil       14,075                       14,140                   Target met
administration falls by 15       servants
percent                          (April 2008)
The public sector wage bill      10.2 percent of    7.5 percent                  7.1 percent of GDP       Target
falls in relation to GDP         GDP (2007)                                      in 2009, projected       exceeded.
                                                                                 at 6.6 percent of
                                                                                 GDP in 2010.
Establish a well-targeted social safety net
Social Welfare Agency           Not established           Established and        Established in           Target met
established and fully                                     fully functioning      October 2008 and
functioning                                                                      fully functioning
Social Welfare Agency           Social Welfare            Social Welfare         Social Welfare           Target not met.
drawing on relevant             Agency is not             Agency databases       Agency databases         However, the
government databases to         drawing on                linked to relevant     still not linked to      agency is
establish eligibility of        relevant                  government             relevant                 verifying
claimants, as provided for in   government                databases              government               information on
the Social Welfare Agency       databases                                        databases                applicants
Act                                                                                                       through direct
                                                                                                          communication
                                                                                                          with the other
                                                                                                          agencies.
Claimants receive response       Social Welfare     Response within              Response within 14       Target not met
from Social Welfare Agency       Agency not         10 days                      days
within 10 days                   established
Reduce the role of the state in commercial areas of the economy
Operating subsidies of the       SR 239 million     SR 78.5 million              SR 47.5 million          Target exceeded
government to state owned        (2007)             (2008)                       (2009)
enterprises fall
Overall subsidies of the         SR 68 million         Zero                               Zero            Target met
government to former
Seychelles Marketing Board
fall



    14
         The DPL Program Document incorrectly gives a year of 2008 for this baseline. The correct year is 2007.
                                                            26
      Annex 3: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     Implementation of the Development Policy Loan

In view of the major reforms that are being undertaken in Seychelles since the second
half of 2008, the Government has worked closely with the World Bank to ensure that the
desired effects of the listed policy actions in the DPL are being achieved.

The DPL measures are aimed at putting Seychelles on a sustainable development path
through a stable macroeconomic environment and a sustainable fiscal framework. The
Government of Seychelles continues to pursue the policy objectives set out in the DPL,
and coupled with achievements on the front of fiscal discipline, sovereign debt re-
structuring and others, are making great advances to achieving the DPL aims.

2.     The Reforms

2.1    Strengthen budget management

Results of the Reforms

As a result of the reforms, budget management appears to be much more sustainable.
There has been an increase in the primary balance from a negative value in 2007 to over
15% in 2009. At the end of Q1 2010, the primary surplus stood at 2.7% of GDP on a
YTD basis. The government is on track to publish quarterly GFS statistics on its website
at the end of April 2010.

Remaining Challenges

The main challenge that remains for the Government is to maintain the progress being
made on the set up of a fully functional macro-economic framework. This framework,
which is the mandate of the newly created financial analysis branch should help provide
Government with consistent projections of the main macroeconomic variables, thereby
assisting ministries and departments work out their budget.

The Bank’s Performance Appraisal

The Bank was helpful towards the achievement of reforms in this area of reform. The
Public Expenditure Revue, as well as the presence of a number of consultants—courtesy
of World Bank—provided the Government with a lot of guidance.

Appraisal of the Borrower’s Performance

The Government has worked hard to reverse the primary surplus from a negative value to
a positive, sustainable one. This necessitated radical changes in the mindset and work
ethic of the entire public sector – a feat not easily achieved. Aside from achieving the
aims set out by the DPL, Government also carried out numerous other improvements to



                                           27
the budget management process, most aptly displayed by its success in achieving such
favorable debt-forgiveness terms by the majority of its creditors.

2.2    Improve governance and accountability of public procurement

Results of the Reforms

The Public Procurement Act was adopted in late 2008 to deal with procurement in the
public sector. The Act, modeled on the COMESA setup, attempts to improve
transparency, competitiveness and overall value for money in the public sector
procurement. The research and effort that has gone into the preparation of proposals
being put in front of the National Tender Board has improved as a result. This has
already started yielding results in terms of value for money—see section 3.2 of the main
text—and will should reduce the lifetime costs of services or objects whose fiscal value
ensure that they are contained under the Act.

Remaining Challenges

The Government feels that although the Board has improved the procurement procedures,
there remains room for the development of capacity to analyze submissions and the
detection of procurement fraud.

Appraisal of the Borrower’s Performance

The National Tender Board is currently running in a satisfactory manner, with a lot more
transparency in the awarding of contracts. The Board feels that the new procedures have
allowed Government to save at least SR 9.1 million in 2009 alone.

Lessons Learned

The Government placed a lot of effort on getting the Board employees, as well as those
of the Ministry of Finance to meet with a lot of the heads of ministries, departments and
public entities affected by the Public Procurement Act. This ensured that these ministries
were aware of the amount of time that would be added to the process of procurement, as
well as the necessary protocol not to be in contravention of the rules. This educational
process was imperative to the success of the Procurement Act.

2.3    Create a more efficient civil service and public administration

Results of the Reforms

The reforms were successful in a number of areas, namely (a) the reduction of number of
employees in the public sector; (b) the reduction of the wage bill as a fraction of GDP (c)
contracting out of non-core government functions. As a result, the public sector is much
more cost-efficient.

Remaining Challenges


                                            28
There are two main remaining challenges. One of those is to bring the principal
secretaries and other contract staff onto the wage grid and harmonize employment and
wage policies across the public administration. The second is to ensure that employment
numbers increase beyond requirements in the forthcoming years as ministries and
departments look at increasing their deliverables, and the reforms are gradually forgotten
about.

The Bank’s Performance Appraisal

The Bank provided a lot of technical assistance in the area of public sector reform, a
generous portion of which constituted the PER report of 2009. The assistance provided
helped with the drafting of the Memorandum of Action on Public Administration and
Public Sector Reform Policies, which formed the platform for reform in the public sector.

Appraisal of the Borrower’s Performance

As was the case with the strengthening of budget management, civil service reforms were
extremely difficult. The popularity of government undoubtedly decreased at the start of
the reforms as many people found that they were no longer employed by the public sector.
However, throughout the process, Government maintained its commitment to the reforms.

Lessons Learned

In order to facilitate the transition from the public sector to the private sector – and the
perceived loss of job security as a result – the Government has spent a lot of resources on
re-training and re-skilling previous employees to empower their endeavors on the private
sector market. This has been extremely helpful, and reduced the initial resentment felt
towards Government for efforts in reducing on staff levels.

2.4    Establish a well-targeted social safety net

Results of the Reforms

The Social Welfare Agency (SWA) is continuing its work to ensure that people who
deserve assistance are assisted accordingly. The SWA is currently helping an average of
approximately 3,000 households on a monthly basis. In order to ensure that the SWA
retains its overall aim of providing vulnerable households with assistance whilst they
seek to improve their situation, there are close links and an exchange of information
between the SWA and the Ministry of Employment.

The SWA continues to be a topic of discussion in the National Assembly and this
coverage in the local media has, as an advantage, ensured that the vast majority of
citizens are aware of the SWA‘s existence. Any person can apply for assistance from
their District Administrator‘s Office. Any household, and thus applicant, will be within
walking distance of a District Administrator‘s Office.



                                             29
As part of its aim to reduce the size of Government and synergize the efforts of the Social
Security Fund and SWA, the Government aims to merge the two bodies in the first half
of 2010. This ties in with the policy objective mentioned above (2.3) which is to have a
more efficient civil service and public administration.

Remaining Challenges

Despite the original aims of the SWA, the Agency finds itself dealing with an increasing
number of people who, by virtue of the circumstances of the inhabitants of their
household, will remain on the system for longer than was anticipated (current legislation
states that one household cannot receive welfare for longer than 12 consecutive months).
In an effort to help it deal with such cases in a clear manner, it is anticipated that certain
changes will need to be made to the SWA Act. The World Bank might be able to provide
some Technical Assistance on this matter.

There remains scope for improvement in the Social Welfare Agency Act, especially in
the domain of information technology, where the links between SWA and various
Government departments – in order to verify data provided by claimants – has not
progressed as fast as had been desired. The claimants are currently receiving a response
within 14 days (contrary to the 10 days stated in 50217-C published on the 5th of October
2009).

Appraisal of the Borrower’s Performance

The Government feels that the SWA is running satisfactorily albeit not optimally.
Although there are certain issues which would help the SWA run more smoothly and
efficiently, the system is more likely to have a higher number of errors of inclusion rather
than errors of exclusion. Thus, the Government appraises the performance of the
Borrower to be satisfactory.

Lessons Learned

The experience that has been acquired by the Government in setting up the SWA
illustrates areas where more effort should perhaps have been placed at the initial setup.
The time and other resources required to ‗write‘ or ‗produce‘ a custom built piece of
software of the magnitude and complexity of that required to run a Welfare Agency was
under-estimated by the authorities. It would have perhaps been more advisable to have
allowed 6 months for the development of the software.

Another area where the Government feels more caution should have been exercised was
in the management of expectations of the population vis-à-vis the Agency by the
politicians. It is felt that the politicians gave the wrong impression of the role and duties
of the SWA. This has resulted in the recipients and recipient-hopefuls feeling that the
SWA is not as generous as it should be, and outright non-recipients (people who are in an
easier financial position) feeling that the SWA is spoiling people and reducing the
incentives for people to work.



                                             30
2.5    Reduce the role of the state in commercial areas of the economy

Results of the Reforms

The former SMB – currently named STC – operates in a fully commercial environment,
with no subsidies from the Government, and posted a profit for 2009. The number of
people that are employed by the entity has also reduced from over 1500 in 2008 to 540
currently.

The STC has stopped the practice of cross-subsidizing between items to ensure that the
cost of certain items did not reflect the true cost of getting them into the country.
However, a small element of cross-subsidizing takes place to ensure that products within
the STC are the same price on all the islands where there are outlets. The costs
associated with moving products from the main island of Mahé (where all imported items
are delivered) to the other islands are distributed evenly amongst all the STC shoppers
across the archipelago.

The success of the STC at maintaining quality whilst also guaranteeing a good price, by
virtue of its sources, has ensured that many applications are being made by merchants
who are willing to open franchises. However, the company policy states that there shall
be no more than 2 outlets per district.

Remaining Challenges

The STC is currently operating in a commercially competitive environment whilst (a)
acting as a price anchor, and (b) keeping a stock of basic foodstuffs. The STC currently
announces prices on 14 basic food items every quarter, and is responsible for maintaining
prices at the stated levels throughout the three-month period. This behavior helps achieve
price stability, a key factor in macroeconomic stability, which the Government realizes to
be pivotal to a sustainable developmental path as mentioned previously in this annex.

As a result of Seychelles‘ geographical location and the risks associated with this (as well
as the presence of pirates in the Indian Ocean currently) the STC retains one of the
mandates that had been handed to its predecessor – the SMB – to ensure a significant
stock of basic food items. This practice has not helped the cash-flow position of the STC.

Appraisal of the Borrower’s Performance

The Government, in conjunction with the management and staff of the STC, has achieved
all the aims at the start of the reforms. The size of the enterprise has dropped
considerably, it no longer requires subsidies, and the private sector has expanded as a
result of its privatization. Thus, the performance of the Borrower can be appraised as
satisfactory.




                                            31
Lessons Learned

The role of an institution such as SMB/STC during a major economic reform such as the
one embarked upon by the Government in late 2008 is obvious. The role of STC in
helping to lower, then stabilize, inflation following the floating of the exchange rate has
been considerable. The decision of Government not to privatize SMB completely was a
wise one.

3.     Conclusion

The conditions set out for the disbursement of the DPL have been maintained following
its disbursement. This has been achieved as a result of the determination and continued
commitment of Government towards achieving the aims of the disbursement, as well as
assistance and support provided by multilateral partners such as the Bank, the IMF and
the EU.

The Government recognizes the importance of sustainability and long-term macro-
economic stability, and expresses its gratitude to the World Bank for the DPL which has
helped with the achievement of these goals.




                                            32
                       Annex 4: List of Supporting Documents

Seychelles Development Policy Program Document, Report 50217-SC, October 5, 2009

Seychelles Interim Strategy Note for fiscal 2009–11, October 5, 2009, Report 47418-SC.

Loan Agreement, September 15, 2009.

Letter of Development Policy, October 2010.

Public Expenditure Review, June 25, 2009, Report 49273-SC.

Public Expenditure Review, 2010 (draft)

Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment, 2008.

Other project files, implementation supervision reports, aide memoires, back-to-office
reports.




                                          33
                                                                                            50°E                                 52°E                                          54°E                                                    56°E

                    SEY C HELLES                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bird I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Denis I.
                                                                                      4°S                                                                                                                                                                                                              4°S
                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INNER
                                  MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                          (GRANITIC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VICTORIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ISLANDS
                                                                                                                                                                                               African Banks
                                        48°E                                                                                                                                                                                                    For Detail,
                                                                                                                                           AMIRANTE                                                                                           See Inset Below
                                                                                                                                            GROUP                                            St. Joseph Atoll
                                                                                                                                                                             Étoile I.                Desroches I.
                                                                                                                                                                                            Poivre
                                                                                                                                                                    Boudeuse I.             Atoll                                                     Platte I.
                                          SEYCHELLES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6°S
             6°S

                                                                                                                                                                    Desnoeufs I.      Marie Louise I.
                                                                                      I N D I A N                 O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                     E )                                             I S L A N D
                                                                                                                                                 I N                                                             S
                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                    O                ALPHONSE               Alphonse I.
                                                                                                                             R                        GROUP                 S. François I.                                                                     Coetivy I.
                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                           C                                                                   54°E                                                    56°E
                                                                                                       (
             8°S                                                                                                                                                      8°S               SEYCHELLES
                                                                                               R                                                                                      Inner (Granitic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Aride I.

                                                                                        E                                                                                          4°15'S                                                                          Curieuse I.
                                                                                  T                                                                                                       Islands                                                                          West Sister I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             East Sister I.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Félécite
                                                                             U                                                                                                                                                                   Grand' Anse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Praslin I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Marie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Anne I.
                                                                    O                                                                                                                         North I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     La Digue I.

                                               ALDABRA
                                                                                                                                        Providence I.                                                         INDIAN                              OCEAN
                              Aldabra                                                                      St. Pierre I.
                              Atoll             GROUP                                                                               Bancs Providence
                                                                                                                                                                                              Silhouette I.                         Mamelle I.

                                                              Cosmolédo Is.
                             Assomption I.                                                                         FARQUHAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Frigate I.
             10°S                                                                                                    GROUP                                           10°S                                                De Quincy Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Recif I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Belle Ombre                                                                        L'Îlot I.
                                                                 Astove I.
                                                                                                                                         Farquhar
                                                                                                                                         Atoll                                                         VICTORIA
                                                                                                                                                                                              Conception I.                    Cascade
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Thérèse I.

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Anse Boileau            Mahé I.
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                     0       50          100          150 Kilometers                                 4°45'S                                        Anse Royale
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                   0       5         10 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33477
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Takamaka
MARCH 2005




               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                   0              50                    100             150 Miles                                                                                              0             5           10 Miles


                                        48°E                                                50°E                                 52°E                                                    55°15'E                          55°30'E                              55°45'E
