Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 19910
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELIZE
SECOND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3776 - BEL)
December 22, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Caribbean Country Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (At March 31, 1999)
Currency Unit - Belize Dollar (BZ$)
BZ$1.00  US$ 0.50
US$1.00  BZ$2.00
Govemment of Belize and Belize Electricity Limited Fiscal Year:
April 1 - March 31 (April 1, 1 998-March 31, 1999 is FY99)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Bancomext  Mexican Bank for Foreign Trade
BEB         Belize Electricity Board
BECOL       Belize Electric Company, Limited (Mollej6n project developer)
BEL         Belize Electricity Limited
CARICOM   Caribbean Community
CDB         Caribbean Development Bank
CDC         Commonwealth Development Corporation
CFE         Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (Mexico)
EIB         European Investment Bank
EIRR        Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMS         Energy Management System
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOB         Government of Belize
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
MEC         Ministry of Energy and Communications
MIS         Management Information System
MTR         Mid-Term Review
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
OES         Office of Electricity Supply
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PPA         Power Purchase Agreement
PUC         Public Utilities Commission
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SCADA       System Control and Data Acquisition
SOF         Secretary of Finance
WG          Multiagency Working Group (SOF, MEC; BEL) for drafting
Amendments to Electricity Act and a new PUC Act.
|Vice President:      David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director      Danny Leipziger
|Task Manager        Jorge F. Gorrio



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELIZE
SECOND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3776- BEL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PR E FA C E                   ........................................................                                                     i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY  ......                                    .......................... .               ......................  ii
Introduction ........................................................                                                                 ii
Project Objectives and  Scope ........................................................ ii
Implementation  Experience  and  Results .................................................                                   ....... ii
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned.........v.............v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                                    1.................................
Background ........................................................                                                                   I
Project Objectives and  Scope .........................................................2
Achievement of Project Objectives .........................................................3
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................5
Project Sustainability ........................................................7
Bank  Performance  . .......................................................    8
Cofinanciers Performance ........................................................ 10
Borrower Performance ........................................................ 10
Assessment of Outcome ..                               ..........................   ....................... 11
Future  Operation ......................................................... 12
PART  II  --  STATISTICAL  TABLES  ........................................                                         ................ 15
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessments ........................ .......................__....... 15
Table 2:  Related  Bank  Loans -  Preceding  Loans ......................................................  16
Table 3:  Project Timetable ......................................................... 16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ..... . ................... 16
Table  5:  Key  Indicators for Project Implementation .................................................. 17
Table 6  - Key  Indicators for Project Operation  ........................................................  18
Table 7:  Studies Included  in the Project .....................................................                                    ... 19
Table  8A:  Project Costs ........................................................                                                     20
Table  8B:  Project Financing  ........................................................ 20
Table 9:  Economic  Costs and  Benefits ........................................................                                        21
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................                                           22
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements [not Applicable] ......  .... 25
Table  12:  Bank  Resources:  Staff  Inputs ........................................................                                    26
Table  13:  Bank  Resources:  Missions ........                               ................................................ 27
APPENDIX    A  -  First Project Completion  Mission  ..................................................   28
APPENDIX     Al -  Second  Project Completion  Mission  ................................                                     ........... 33
APPENDIX  B - Project Review from  Borrower's Perspective ..........- ...................... 55
APPENDIX   C  -  Proposed  Operational Plan ........................................................                                     63
APPENDIX D - Estimation of the ex-post Economic Internal Rate of Return ............ 65
Map No. IBRD 30397
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELIZE
SECOND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3776 - BEL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Power Development
Project in Belize, for which loan 3776-BEL in the amount of US$11.5 million equivalent
was approved on July 5, 1994 and made effective on August 9, 1995.
Following one extension of 18 months, the loan was closed on June 30, 1999. It was
fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on October 29, 1999. Final
Cofinancing provided to the project was 28.2 percent TBRD, 32 percent Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB), 10.7 percent European Investment Bank (ES), 3.1 percent
Bancomext of Mexico (Bancomex) and 26 percent Belize Electricity Limited (BEL).
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Jorge F. Gorri6 of the Finance, Private Sector and
Infrastructure Department of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office (LCSFP),
as Project Task Manager from September 1997 until his retirement from the Bank in
July 1999, and as a Consultant thereafter; and Fernando Lecaros (Consultant). The report
is based on material in the project file, including Project Implementation Unit reports,
Project Supervision Reports (PSRs) and interviews in Belize during the Bank's
supervision/completion missions (March 24 to 31, 1999 for the transmission components
and November 29 to December 3, 1999 for the sector least cost planning and
environmental prevention and clean-up components). It was reviewed by Max Pulgar-
Vidal, LCSFP Sector Leader, Susan Goldmark, LCSFE Acting Sector Manager, and
M. Victoria Lister, Quality Assurance Officer in LCSFP. The borrower contributed to
the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation,
which is included as Appendix B.






ii
BELIZE
Second Power Development Project
(Loan 3776 - BEL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Project was identified in 1992 when the Bank's First Power Project was
coming to a close. Future demand and supply requirements had reached a point where
interconnection between load centers would become economical and would also justify
an interconnection with the Mexican power system, which would reduce costs through
low cost imports and increase reliability. On the institutional front, an Electricity Act had
been passed which, despite a number of limitations, allowed for different providers to
supply electricity, and the Government-owned Belize Electricity Board (BEB) had been
transformed into a public limited liability company, Belize Electricity Limited (BEL).
Project Objectives and Scope
2.    Objectives. The project was designed to: (i) ensure that future demand would be
met; (ii) reduce generation costs by substituting diesel generation with lower-cost imports
from Mexico; (iii) increase reliability and reduce outages through the interconnection of
load centers; (iv) reduce pollution, and mitigate adverse environmental effects in diesel
plants; and (v) prepare pricing regulations for the 1992 Electricity Act.
3.    Components. The project included: (i) physical supply components comprising
11 5kV and 34.5kV lines, a submarine cable, substations and electrical equipment, a
dispatch center, supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA), and communications
for system operations and Management Information System (MIS); (ii) environmental
components to prevent spills and to clean-up soil contamination at BEL' s diesel plants;
and (iii) institutional strengthening components, including training and studies for BEL
and advisory services to GOB for establishing complementary regulations to the
Electricity Act.
4.    The project was conceived to address relevant sectoral issues and its components
were adjusted to the objectives. Project execution did not involve any significant
physical risks. The environmental effects of the submarine cable were thoroughly
studied and an environmental control plan for all components was an integral part of the
project itself.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievement of Objectives. All project objectives were accomplished: (i)
demand is being met through a combination of imports from Mexico during off-peak
hours and generation from plants within Belize during maximum demand hours; (ii) cost
of operations has been reduced by around 10 percent (80 percent of diesel generation has



iii
been substituted by imported energy); (iii) reliability has increased substantially, and
frequent outages in Belize's main towns are no longer experienced; (iv) environmental
benefits have visibly materialized: local and regional emissions have been reduced with
the shutdown of the more inefficient diesel plants (Belize' s power is being produced in
Mexico with cleaner and more efficient gas-based generation), the cleanup of past spills
and the spill prevention works in those plants which continue to operate are underway
(they are scheduled to be completed in 2000); and (v) on June 25, 1999 the GOB
presented the legislature with two bills. One for amending the Electricity Act and the
other for the creation of a Public Utilities Commission (PUC); encompassing power,
telecommunications, and water and sewerage, to exercise the regulatory function - these
two bills were enacted on August 3, 1999. As a result, the privatization objective for
BEL was successfully achieved in October 1999.
6.    Implementation of Project Components. The physical components of the
project were satisfactorily put in place as originally designed. Transmission lines and
substations were built in compliance with environmental guidelines, together with the
control and information system elements. Progress on the ongoing environmental
component (as of December 1999) is satisfactory, with the following completion
schedules: diesel spill containment works by March 2000; remediation of surface soils
by June 2000; and the more gradual natural attenuation of in-situ contaminated soils and
underground water in the San Pedro Plant are expected to be sufficiently advanced by
December 2000. The institutional component objectives were substantially and
fundamentally exceeded. Originally they called for the enactment by GOB's Cabinet of
pricing regulations to complement the 1992 Electricity Act, whereas, as noted before, the
project succeeded in providing additional support to modernize the overall regulatory
framework, and to organize the PUC.
7.    Project Costs. Estimated Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) costs amounted to
US$33 million; actual costs were on the order of US$40.7 million. The 23 percent
overrun (partially offset by savings due to exchange rate fluctuations) was due to higher
costs of longer, environmentally optimized paths for the transmission and submarine
lines, environmental works, and additional components (BEL's new office building).
The interconnection line with Mexico had minor cost overruns due to partially rocky
geological conditions.
8.    Financing Arrangements. Project financing initially included the IBRD, the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). The latter withdrew its support and
its share of the financing was taken up by CDB. However, the process of securing
financing delayed the project by about a year (the Bank's effectiveness condition was
subject to having all financing in place). The substation expansion and line extensions in
Mexico (which are part of the Project) were financed by Bancomext of Mexico. The
final project financing composition was 28.2 percent IBRD, 32 percent CDB, 10.7
percent EIB, 3.1 percent Bancomext and 26 percent BEL.
9.    Implementation timetables. Once financing was secured, the execution of the
supply components of the project proceeded relatively smoothly, although some delays
can be attributed to sub-optimal incentive sequencing of payments to one contractor. The



iv
clean-up of diesel plants was delayed by: (i) underestimation of costs, which required
new funding arrangements; (ii) scheduling constraints which had been overlooked; and
(iii) delays in awarding the spill containment contract. The drafting of pricing regulations
was substantially delayed due to unsatisfactory performance of a first consultant caused
by initial lack of loan covenants relating to the timely formation, training and budgeting
of an executing unit to carry out this key institutional project component that was to be
implemented by the GOB. Eventually, the creation of a multi-agency Working Group
together with an increased budget, subsequent change of consultants, and appropriate
training of the Working Group allowed the regulations to be completed in a highly
satisfactory manner.
10.   Total project delays between expected SAR and actual project completion,
including the completion of still ongoing environmental mitigation works, will amount to
about three years. However, the completion of cost-saving components was delayed less
than 18 months, of which about 1 year is attributable to financing delays. Over 50
percent of the economic impact of the 18-month delay would have been unavoidable
because of the two-year delay of the 300 MW Mexican Merida Thermal Generation Plant
(completion is now scheduled by June 2000) whose output will supply over 50 percent of
the contracted energy between BEL and CFE.
11.   Key factors which affected the project were financing difficulties, delays in the
formation of the inter-agency Working Group in charge of implementing the regulatory
component of the project, and delays in executing the detailed costing and scheduling of
the environmental cleanup components. Despite these initial weaknesses, the project was
successful due to a competently staffed Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which
exhibited continuity throughout the execution phase, together with support from the
Board and executive officers of BEL. At the Government level, through an improved
budget, training and more intensive Bank support, the Working Group was able take
better ownership of the task and interacted effectively with the second consulting firm.
12.   Bank Performance, overall, was found to be satisfactory. The Bank was able to
take advantage of lessons learned from the first Power Project to structure and design the
supply components of the project. However, taking for granted the participation of
cofinanciers proved to be a mistake. The ensuing difficulties could have been avoided by
a greater in-depth exploration, during the early stages of project formulation, of
cofinanciers' willingness to participate and their conditions. The Bank provided
feedback to the Borrower regarding issues related to pricing regulations and up to a point,
made up for the initial constraints relating to the creation of GOB's Working Group.
Suitable conditionality agreed during project preparation would have enabled a more
timely and structured formation of the Working Group including any required training.
13.   Borrower/Implementing Agency Performance, overall, was found to be
satisfactory. Project execution was performed mainly by the PIU. Staff continuity
throughout project execution facilitated reporting and detection of problems. The PIU
was responsible for technical and financial management of project implementation,
which was tracked and recorded in monthly and quarterly reports. Despite its competent
performance, the PIU was more focused on the construction of lines and substations and
less on the environmental clean-up components which suffered delays. As noted before,



v
the initial constraints of GOB's Working Group did not allow for an effective interaction
with the first consultant retained for price regulation purposes. Toward the end of the
project, however, the performance of both the PIU with the assistance of experienced
environmental consultants, and the adequately budgeted and trained Working Group,
were outstanding. The implementation progress of the environmental clean-up
component became satisfactory, and the enactment of both the new Electricity Act and
PUC Act, far exceeded the more modest original pricing regulatory objectives.
14.   Project Sustainability. Satisfactory measures are, or are being put, in place to
ensure satisfactory sustainability of all project components. Adequate maintenance of the
transmission lines requires standard skills for which BEL has a proven track record.
O&M costs are to be recovered through regulated revenues. The environmental
components are minor scale civil works that require minimum maintenance, and BEL is
preparing an Environmental Operations Manual that will be part of its corporate
operating policies and procedures. The new PUC created on August 24, 1999 is expected
to implement the new sector regulatory framework as mandated by the Electricity and
PUC Acts enacted on August 3, 1999 - although the creation of the PUC was not a
project objective, it is emphasized that its successful operation requires that the GOB
provide adequate budgetary support to cover staffing and training needs, and obtain the
necessary technical assistance to prepare all pertinent regulatory by-laws as soon as
possible. Finally, BEL is expected to execute on time all contractual requirements for
achieving the full potential benefits of the interconnection with Mexico including those
that might lead to renegotiating the contract with CFE as early as 2006 and renewing it in
2012.
15.   Assessment of Outcome. Despite time and cost overruns, the project achieved
all its physical and economic objectives, and substantially exceeded its institutional and
regulatory objectives. The outcome represents a significant milestone in Belize's
electricity supply and will generate substantial fuel and foreign exchange savings, and
effective pollution mitigation (noise, emissions, and spills) for the country. On
completion, the project's expected economic internal rate of return (EIRR) under most
likely scenarios ranges from 16 to 17.4 percent. These results are lower than the 22
percent of the SAR's estimate, which was based on assumptions now considered
optimistic. A low probability worst-case scenario (based on a breakdown of negotiations
regarding the CFE contract and its termination at the end of 2008) yields a 10 percent
EIRR. Under these circumstances the project has been rated Satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
16.   Future operation. Having successfully executed the project, BEL and the GOB
are suitably poised to derive sustainable benefit from all physical and institutional
components implemented under the project (Appendix C). As to the future, BEL is
currently evaluating options for implementing a new phase for Belize's power system,
consisting of: (i) extending electricity service to other communities off the main grid
through sub-transmission and distribution investments which are now facilitated by lower
generation requirements; and (ii) encouraging the substitution of electricity for traditional
fuels by channeling to consumers the cost-reduction benefits of the project through lower
prices.



VI
17.   With the physical and regulatory assets provided by the project, both BEL and the
sector are equipped to capture potential opportunities likely to arise from the expected
restructuring of the Mexican Power Sector, the Central American Interconnection,
ongoing sector reforms in other neighboring counties, and the continuous downtrend in
the costs of renewable energy technologies.
18.   Key Lessons Learned. Many of the implementation problems could have been
avoided by more detailed preparation and identification of implementation organization
and training needs, particularly those related to the environmental and regulatory project
components. Lessons from the project include:
* A strong PIU such as the one responsible for this project, with staff continuity
throughout implementation, is essential for successful project execution, including early
detection and swift action to correct design weaknesses and adapt to changing
circumstances. In this project it also allowed reducing supervision costs by not requiring
a permanent presence of outsourced inspectors.
* Cost Effective Project Supervision. BEL's successful approach to supervision of
project components, consisted of hiring individual consultants associated with a smaller
firm; it is particularly applicable to those projects where, due to their modest size,
supervision costs can be very substantial relative to the total budget if the traditional
approach of hiring a company with permanent field staff is used.
* Financing arrangements involving multiple cofinanciers should, at some point of
project preparation, include a cofinancing agreement spelling out the parties'
commitments together, possibly, with nominal commitment fees and penalties for
withdrawal. Wherever possible, financing arrangements should be made a condition for
negotiations rather than loan effectiveness.
* Budgeting and scheduling for those components that cannot be completely designed at
appraisal requires attention early on during project implementation, to ensure an
effective response regarding adoption of realistic implementation schedules and
adequate budgets to prevent future delays.
* Wherever possible the Bank should front-load the implementation of institutional
and environmental project components to address them early on during project
execution, when the Bank's leverage is highest.
* Effectiveness conditions should be: (i) limited to predictable mechanical actions and
events -- those involving uncertain outcomes such as securing project-financing should
be conditions for negotiations; and (ii) stated precisely, and if possible, in quantitative
terms for critical elements -- in this project, minimum conditions for the CFE contract
could have been spelled out and would have reduced the risk associated with an eventual
early termination of the contract.
* Human Resources: at the time of project preparation an objective evaluation of human
resources available for labor-intensive components involving studies can reduce
implementation difficulties by: (i) avoiding the establishment of unrealistic milestones;
and (ii) allowing preventive measures to be taken, such as early satisfactory staffing,
budgeting, training programs or contracting advisory services.



Vil
* The Bank should minimize substituting its resources for late identification of
project weaknesses: the latter should be identified and solved through timely project
redesign, training programs or advisory services, to maximize Borrower's project
ownership.
* Contractual Payment Schedules should avoid creating perverse incentives for
contractors who may delay the project for financial gain. In general, payments should
be linked to milestones critical to project implementation. In this particular project,
smaller upfront contractor payments would have been desirable, linking the larger ones
to full mobilization and start up of critical path activities rather than to delivery of
materials, which have no operational value until they are installed.



1
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    Belize is located on the Caribbean coast of Central America, bounded on the
North by Mexico and on the South by Guatemala. Belize covers 8,866 sq. miles of
territory; it comprises over 200 islands, atolls and islets extending the entire length of the
country. Its population is approximately 250,000 and the principal urban center is Belize
City (pop. 70,000). Belize has experienced constant and rapid economic growth, per
capita income is around US$3,200 (in 1984 dollars) and the country compares well with
other Caribbean countries in terms of income distribution, health and education.
2.    Until 1992 the electricity subsector was organized around the Belize Electricity
Board (BEB), a public company. In October 1992, BEB was transformed into Belize
Electricity Limited (BEL) a public limited liability company with private participation
(GOB retained a 60 percent interest in the company). This reorganization was
accompanied by the promulgation of an Electricity Law, which despite some drawbacks
addressed market pricing of supplies, and provided for private sector participation,
regulation and competition.
3.    With few dense population centers, electrification proceeded until 1993 through
the development of small isolated grids and a short 34 kV-line border interconnection
with Mexico, which supplied the towns of Corozal and Orange Walk. At the time, the
issues associated with power supplies in Belize's system were:
* High cost generation: based on small diesel sets with limited service life and
burning high-cost distillate;
* Frequent outages and low system reliability and quality;
* Polluting generation facilities: emissions, noise and uncontained fuel spills
around the power plants created a hazard by seeping into the groundwater.
The first two issues were unavoidable due to system size: it was not economic to link
small, light load, and dispersed communities; as a consequence, supplies were restricted
to small generators and standard reliability could only have been achieved through large
and costly reserve margins.
4.    The Bank has been involved with the sector since 1982. The first power project
loan (Loan 2749-BEL) was designed to meet the 1987-93 energy requirements and to
upgrade the system's distribution facilities. When the second power project was
conceived (in 1992), further supplies were required to serve expected load increases. The
options for accomplishing this expansion consisted of
* Developing indigenous hydro resources which had been identified in an earlier
study;
* Installing additional diesel sets, as in the past; and
* Purchasing power from Mexico.



2
This last option had been analyzed in the context of identifying and preparing the first
power loan and had been rejected as too costly as it required the construction of a 115kV
line in excess of 100km. However, by 1992 the load had grown to a point where size had
ceased to be a constraint; by the time of project conception, a private company, Belize
Electric Company Limited (BECOL) had undertaken the construction of a power plant on
the Macal river (Mollej6n, 25MW) backed by a PPA with BEL which required a 11 5kV
line to deliver the Mollej6n energy to Belize City. This link would constitute the initial
element of a national interconnection grid.
5.    The project was conceived as a means for transforming the Belize power system
into a modern, interconnected grid, which would take advantage of integration with the
large Mexican system, together with institutional reform oriented towards introducing
economic incentives for system operation and expansion.
Project Objectives and Scope
6.    The project's objectives consisted of (i) ensuring that future demand would be
supplied; (ii) reducing power generation costs; (iii) increasing the reliability of electricity
service through interconnection of load centers as well as interconnection with the large
Mexican power system; (iv) addressing environmental concerns in existing facilities; and
(v) supporting the restructuring of the sector and the development of regulatory
legislation to complement the Electricity Law. However, these objectives were only
clearly enunciated in the PSR during project implementation; in fact, the SAR confused
the objectives with the project's components.
7.    To achieve these objectives, the project included the following components:
(a)   Transmission lines: implementation of a 115kV, 137km, transmission
line from the Mexican border to Belize City, a 34.5kV submarine cable to
connect Ambergris Cay, and 34.5kV lines to connect Dangriga and San
Pedro;
(b)   Substations: transformer and switching substations and equipment;
(c)   Maintenance: O&M vehicles, equipment and tools;
(d)   Systems development: a dispatch center together with SCADA and
communications systems;
(e)   Studies: tariff and cost of service study;
(f)    Environmental Protection: environmental study of BEL's diesel-electric
power stations, implementation of plans for prevention of oil spills and
clean-up of areas contaminated by BEL's plants;
(g)   Training: O&M, tariffs, planning, environmental impact; and



3
(h)   Regulations to the Electricity Act (initially conceived as pricing
regulations in the SAR, but extended to general regulations in the Loan
Agreement).
Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    Project objectives can be classified as supply/efficiency objectives associated
primarily with the physical aspects of the project, institutional development objectives
associated with the development of new regulations, and environmental objectives.
9.    Supply objectives. The principal economic objectives of the project consisted of
a reduction in generation costs and an increase in service quality. This was achieved by:
(i) negotiating a supply contract with Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (CFE), the
Mexican national power company; and (ii) executing the principal physical components
of the project (i.e. the 115kV lines and substations, the Dangriga connection and the
Ambergris Cay connection) in order to substitute diesel generation and provide greater
continuity and stability with the connection to a large system.
10.  In this respect, all the physical objectives were achieved and as a consequence,
the more inefficient diesel plants (e.g., Dangriga, San Pedro, Corozal and Orange Walk)
have been shut down. Other diesel plants are now being used exclusively for peaking
purposes. Diesel generation has been reduced by over 80 percent, and the net cost
savings associated with the project are in excess of US$250,000 per month (around 10
percent of operating expenses). These savings have been channeled to consumers
through a rate cut of 5 percent. in 1997, and a further one of 15 percent to be introduced
gradually over the next four years.
11.   Reliability has improved and has been perceived by users. Although there has not
yet been enough time to quantify the improvements in service quality, frequent service
outages in the interconnected cities and towns (Belize City, Belmopan, Ladyville,
Dangriga, San Pedro, Corozal and Orange Walk) are a feature of the past.
12.   Economic Internal Rate of Return (ELRR). The EIRR of the project based on
actual costs and expected benefits under most likely and worst case scenarios yielded the
following results:
(a)   SAR scenario, based on the indefinite duration of the BEL-CFE power
purchase agreement (PPA) at the same favorable original terms. The 18.2
percent EERR of this scenario compares well with the SAR estimate of 22
percent. However, his scenario can be qualified as optimistic because the
PPA negotiated with CFE has a ten-year unilateral early rescission clause
which is likely to compel a renegotiation at less favorable terms to BEL.
(b)   Fair probability of occurrence, based on renegotiation of the PPA at a
price mid-way between BEL's and CFE's economic costs, which would
allow each party to share the economic benefits of the energy exchange
(the so-called "split savings" method used to price energy purchases or
exchanges between US and Canadian utilities, and between US utilities



4
participating in US regional power exchange agreements). Renewal of the
PPA under this condition at the end of ten years yields an EIRR of 16
percent; if it takes place at the closing date of the 14-year contract, the
EIRR becomes 17.4 percent.
(c)   Low probability/worst-case scenario based on the rescission and non-
renewal of the PPA at the end of 2008 yields a 10 percent EIRR. The
odds of the worst-case scenario are likely to decline should Mexico reform
its power sector before end-2008, which is the earliest contractual
rescission date.
13.   Institutional development objectives. The enactment of the Electricity Act in
1992 provided a frame of reference which led to the partial privatization of BEL. Given
the limitations of system size (which precludes competition, at least in the short term), a
well-defined regulatory framework and its attendant rules were deemed necessary. The
institutional component objectives of the project were substantially and fundamentally
exceeded. Originally they called for the enactment by GOB's Cabinet of pricing
regulations to complement the 1992 Electricity Act. The March 1998 supervision
mission and the interagency GOB's Working Group found that the proposals for pricing
and complementary regulations made by a first consultant were insufficient to support
GOB's sector privatization objectives. It became clear those objectives required a more
fundamental updating of the Electricity Act, in aspects relating to incentive regulation
and autonomy and scope of the regulatory agency. Subsequent work by a second
consultant and GOB's own observations enabled GOB to determine the need for a Public
Utility Regulatory Commission (PUC) for Belize to regulate the principal public services
(power, telecommunications, water). As a result, on June 25, 1999 GOB presented to the
Legislature two new bills, one for an amended Electricity Act and another for creating the
PUC. Both were subsequently enacted on August 3, 1999. The new sector regulatory
framework is now in place and under the responsibility of the new PUC created on
August 24, 1999. The privatization of BEL, through public bidding, was successfully
completed in October 28, 1999.
14.   Environmental objectives. With the reduction in diesel generation, there has
been an immediate improvement regarding local environmental effects due to operating
factors: smoke emissions and noise levels have been reduced, as well as the chances for
fuel spills. Furthermore, given that Belize's imports are being generated in cleaner and
more efficient gas plants in Mexico, it follows that overall regional emissions have
declined.
15.   Progress on the ongoing environmental component (as of December 1999 - see
Appendix Al) is satisfactory, with the following completion schedules: diesel spill
containment works by March 2000; remediation of surface soils by June 2000; and the
more gradual natural attenuation of in-situ contaminated soils and underground water in
the San Pedro Plant are expected to be sufficiently advanced by December 2000.
16.   With this project Belize becomes one of a small group of countries that supplies a
large fraction of its electricity demand through international trade. It will reach some 52
percent of total energy demand in 2002. The interconnection with Mexico, together with



5
the updating of the Electricity Act, will allow Belize to have access at some future date to
the Central American electricity market and the opportunity to further reduce electricity
costs.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   BEL was the project-executing agency. A Project Agreement was signed between
the Bank and BEL. A Subsidiary Loan Agreement was signed between GOB and BEL
for on-lending the proceeds of the loan. The reforms to the Electricity Act were executed
directly by the Government through the Ministry of Energy and Communications (MEC).
18.   The principal factors that stand out regarding project implementation are time and
cost overruns. According to the SAR and the Loan Agreement (LA), the ptoject
completion date was June 30, 1997 and the Bank's closing date was set to December 31,
1997. The closing date required an extension to June 30, 1999 and project execution will
only finalize completely around December 2000 (para. 15). The project's total cost
estimated in the SAR was US$33 million. The actual final cost of the project at US$40.7
million produced an overall cost overrun of 23 percent (para. 26).
19.   Project delays. The main project delay occurred when arranging for financing.
One of the potential financiers, Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), which
was expected to lend 16 percent of project costs (US$5.2 million) changed its proposal
and requested an equity participation in BEL. CDC withdrew its support because its new
demand could not be accommodated. Alternative arrangements had to be made and CDB
agreed to finance the shortfall. Signed cofinancing agreements were a condition for
effectiveness of the Bank's loan, which was therefore delayed by over nine months.
20.   Another source of delays was associated with the design and execution of the
11 5kV line. Final designs were delayed by around 6 months; the contractual completion
date for the line was April 28, 1998, but it was only substantially finished by October
1998. After settling for some contentious claims by both the contractor and BEL, the
actual handing over of the project to BEL was accomplished in February 1999, with some
remaining weather-dependent works which would be undertaken by BEL. Despite these
setbacks, the interconnection line with Mexico initiated operations on December 3, 1998
when the project started to generate benefits.
21.   Execution of the diesel plant clean-up environmental components, namely the
spill prevention and mitigation measures in diesel plants, was also delayed. The August
1998 change in Government introduced a 6-month delay in the procurement process. As
of April 1999, while the procurement process was almost complete (clean-up works had
been contracted and bidding for the spill prevention contract was ongoing), physical
progress on these components had been nil. One reason for this situation was attributable
to a valuation made during project preparation that resulted to be materially below the
cost finally assessed by the environmental consultants. Savings in other components
funded the resulting financial gap but required a substantial delay for them to materialize.
22.   There were also delays in contracting the supporting studies which would have
brought to light the following scheduling problems: (i) spill prevention should precede



6
clean-up to avoid having to repeat the latter; (ii) spill prevention should only take place at
those power plants which were expected to continue to operate and not at those which are
likely to be dismantled; and (iii) the decision to dismantle was contingent on assurance
that the interconnection with Mexico would operate to satisfaction.
23.   Although none of these factors had been explicitly analyzed at the design stage of
the project, the environmental cleanup study should have brought them to light. Finally,
once the financing problems had been solved and the scope of work had been identified,
there was a delay in contracting the required works. The final contract for the spill
prevention component was awarded on June 28, 1999, and is expected to be completed in
March 2000 (para. 15).
24.   The institutional component also presented significant delays. The initial
completion date (March 31, 1995) was far too optimistic. Also, there were changes in
scope regarding the regulatory component. Whereas the SAR envisioned the drafting of
pricing regulations, further analysis showed that a fundamental overhaul of the Electricity
Act was necessary, which would require approval by Parliament.
25.   The drafting of pricing regulations was substantially delayed due to unsatisfactory
performance of a first consultant caused by initial lack of loan covenants relating to the
timely formation, training and budgeting of an executing unit to carry out this key
institutional project component that was to be implemented by the GOB. Eventually, the
creation of a multi-agency Working Group together with an increased budget, subsequent
change of consultants, and appropriate training of the Working Group allowed the
regulations to be completed in a highly satisfactory manner. As a result the first
consultant was hired with inadequate terms of reference and failed to address issues
flagged repeatedly by the Bank. Eventually a new consultant had to be engaged. The
final result, however, brought about by the frilly trained Working Group exceeded the
original objectives substantially and fundamentally. Compliance with the amended
covenant was surpassed when proposed legislation, which comprised reforms to the
Electricity Act and a new Public Utilities Commission (PUC) Act, was sent to Parliament
on June 25, 1999. The original covenant called for issuing pricing regulations by GOB's
cabinet. As a result of the training and interaction with a second consultant, the Working
Group spurred by GOB's own observations and desire to divest from its remaining stock
holding in BEL proposed a more ambitious scope for updating the overall regulatory
framework, including a new PUC Act. This new scope required the GOB's cabinet to
approve extensive amendments to the Electricity Act, and to present them to the
Legislature. Parliament approved new Electricity and PUC Acts on August 3, 1999, and
GOB, through ICB, closed the sale of its shares to a Canadian private utility on October
28, 1999.
26.   Project cost overruns. The 23 percent cost differences between appraisal and
final values are attributable to: (i) slightly longer than estimated transmission lines (to
comply with environmental constraints) once final designs were completed, and higher
line costs due to soil conditions; (ii) higher than expected winning bids in various project
components (e.g., the transmission line and the SCADA/communications component);
(iii) higher costs of the spill prevention and cleanup components in diesel plants once
detailed specifications were available; and (iv) additional components which were added



7
to the project, namely: (a) BEL's office complex -to take advantage of available
financing within CDB's loan, and (b) the MIS system which was financed by EIB. Once
the latter two components are factored out, the cost overruns decrease to less than 20
percent.
27.   Other factors. Three firms were in charge of different aspects of project
supervision (the 115kV line, the substations and the 34.5kV lines, and the submarine
cable). An effective approach was used for the 115kV line. Supervision was contracted
to a firm, which did not establish a permanent base in Belize and performed its functions
through a panel of two experts who visited the project regularly to supervise the progress
of construction and installation. This approach was approved by the Bank, considering
that it has several advantages for a relatively small and straightforward project: (i) it
reduces supervision costs and (ii) it allows a better selection of supervision experts, rather
than relying on a large company which will often not assign its best resources to such a
project. On the other hand it requires a well staffed and competent PIU to detect
anomalies during project execution.
Project Sustainability
28.   The project represents a milestone for Belize's power sector by creating a
national, integrated, interconnected system with higher reliability and lower cost. The
principal physical components of the project, i.e. the interconnection lines and substations
constitute the backbone of electricity supply in the short and medium term. They are
likely to have the highest maintenance priority in the system, given that otherwise swift
service deterioration and high operating costs would ensue. The institutional components
of the project will help by providing an incentive-based regulatory system (overseen by a
regulatory agency with improved autonomy) which spurs the electricity provider to
maintain service standards and reduce costs.
29.   The project runs a risk related to the CFE-PPA contract, which is valid until 2012
(i.e. 14 years of operation) but can be terminated unilaterally once it has been operating
for ten years. The consequences of contract termination and modification are analyzed in
Appendix D. A worse case scenario (in which the line ceases to operate after ten years)
would reduce the ex-post EIRR to 10 percent. However, more realistic assumptions
indicate that the EIRR is not likely to fall below 16 percent. This risk could have been
mitigated during project preparation by specifying minimum contractual conditions
before negotiations are initiated rather than merely stating that the contract should be
"satisfactory to the Bank".
30.   The spill containment component of the project will ensure that fuel leaks in the
remaining diesel plant sites (Belize City, Belmopan and Ladyville) will be adequately
disposed of, and that further major mitigation works will not be required in the future.
31.   Future project risks are associated with elements outside the control of both GOB
and BEL, namely:
* Consequences of hurricane damage. A direct hit by hurricane forces in excess of
165 mph is likely to flatten any structure encountered by it. The BEL system is



8
designed to withstand 165 mph winds, which provides security for 95 percent of all
hurricanes hitting Belize'.
Continuity of the CFE (Mexico) PPA. Although Belize's load is marginal relative to
the size of the Mexican system, it is improbable, though possible, that supplies could
be limited or cut off due to political or economic developments. In the near future
Mexico is expected to initiate a restructuring of its energy sub-sector with the aim of
increasing private power generation, which should minimize this risk. A power
cutoff is unlikely to last very long given that the contract is backed by international
agreements. However, the current PPA may need to be renegotiated by BEL as early
as the end of 2006. Clause 2(iii) of the PPA enables each party to unilaterally
terminate the contract any time after 8 years have elapsed from the start of operations
of the 115 kV interconnection line provided that a termination notice of at least 24
months is formally served to the other party.
32.   The price setting rules that were incorporated into the Electricity and PUC Acts
and approved by Parliament on August 3, 1999 are expected to ensure that BEL and other
power companies in the future would be able to count on the resources for assuring the
sustainability of the physical and environmental components.
Bank Performance
33.   Overall, the Bank's performance was found to be satisfactory. For the physical
components of the project, the Bank built upon experience gained with the first Power
Project, as evidenced by frequent project preparation missions. The result was a project
which addressed relevant country issues and established a new standard for electricity
supplies. The Bank was instrumental in showing that an interconnected operation would
yield benefits, which could never be attained by remaining as an isolated system. The
Bank also exerted a constructive role by supervising the performance of the consultants
in charge of regulatory components and calling the attention of the Government to those
aspects that required a more fundamental revision of the legal framework than anticipated
in the SAR.
34.   At the supervision stage, the Bank's performance shows unbalanced emphasis.
Two phases of project supervision stand out clearly:
* An initial phase that coincides with BEL's concentrating on executing the principal
physical components, and consequently emphasizing engineering at the expense of
institutional, regulatory and environmental aspects. This phase culminates with the
Mid Term Review (MTR) in March 1997 and with the November 1997 justification
for extending the closing date of the loan from December 31, 1997 to June 30, 1999.
At these dates there was a belated realization that the environmental and regulatory
components of the project were seriously delayed and not fully funded; and
In 1998 hurricane George lit the Dominican Republic with 160mph winds. The only transmission lines
left standing were those financed by the Bank and IDB, which were designed to withstand 165mph
winds.



9
* A final phase that continues to track the physical (i.e. line/substation) aspects, but
concentrates heavily on the institutional and environmental aspects and seeks to get
project execution to catch up with these two delayed components. Having practically
concluded the former, and disbursed and committed over 90 percent of the loan
proceeds, during this final phase Bank recommendations normally carry substantially
less weight with regard to the implementing agency. However, it is noteworthy that
during this phase: (i) both the new GOB administration and BEL responded
effectively to the Bank's stepped up dialogue and project supervision, and (ii) CDB,
out of savings in its financed project components, agreed to fund the shortfalls in the
Bank-financed environmental and institutional components.
In hindsight it becomes clear that it was a mistake to follow BEL's priorities, and that an
early concentration of supervision on the less well-identified environmental and
regulatory components would have contributed to more balanced and timely execution of
all project components.
35.   During project preparation, the Bank, despite providing a proper legal framework
and institutional diagnosis, failed to agree on the appropriate set of covenants to ensure
the timely establishment of a satisfactorily budgeted and staffed Working Group for
carrying out what was clearly a key sector institutional component of the project. As a
result, in the absence of appropriate counterpart from the GOB, and the impending
deadline of March 31, 1995, the terms of reference for the first consultant had to be
drafted, by default, by BEL. This was unusual in that the regulated entity ended up
drafting terms of reference to contract a consultant to prepare tariff setting regulations.
The initial absence of a properly set up Working Group was one of the reasons for the
unsatisfactory performance of the initial consultant. As a result, the main reviewer of the
consultant's product was the Bank, at least during the initial stages of the study.
However effective Bank cooperation may be, it is no substitute for a properly staffed,
budgeted and trained staff who might eventually be responsible for the regulation of
public utilities. Furthermore, the Bank's resources for such purposes as detailed reviews
of consultants' products are limited, and supervision resources are not intended to cover
such in-depth cooperation.
36.   Also, the desire to obtain fast results on this front (covenanted by March 31,
1995) led to a premature initiation that would ultimately drag out its completion. As
noted above, the regulations were still being drafted four years later. Project preparation
failed to properly design and budget the implementation of this component.
37.   The first explicit recognition of the need to strengthen the resources of the
Working Group was made at the time of the project's MTR, together with the poor
performance of the first consultant. And effective actions were taken in the March 1998
supervision mission when it was agreed to contract a more experienced second consultant
and arrangements were made for the working group officials to attend an intensive
regulatory training course.



10
Corinanciers Performance
38.   Overall, cofinanciers' performance was found to be satisfactory. The GOB and
BEL acknowledge their satisfaction with the performance of the principal project lenders:
IBRD, CDB, EIB, and Bancomext. The procurement and implementation of their
respective components (Table 8B) essentially met all original deadlines and cost
estimates. In particular, the borrower underlines: (i) CDB's instrumental support to the
project by agreeing to: (a) close the financing gap left by the abrupt departure of CDC
(para. 19); and (b) reallocate savings from its financed components to fund shortfalls in
the project components financed by the IBRD; (ii) IBRD's flexibility in adapting to the
financing needs of the project by agreeing to the unorthodox but useful initiative of
disbursing, to an escrow account, ear-marked loan proceeds that will allow full funding
of the delayed environmental clean-up components that required disbursements beyond
the closing date of the IBRD loan; and (iii) the high commitment to project supervision of
IBRD, CDB and EEB who for improved effectiveness agreed to coordinate and carry out
joint supervision missions, and accept the same format for all project reporting
requirements.
Borrower Performance
39.   Overall, the performance of the Borrower and of the Implementing Agency were
found to be Satisfactory. With the exception of regulations, GOB delegated project
execution to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within BEL. The PIU's meticulous
dedication to the physical components of the project benefited from its close interaction
with BEL's executive officers and from the continuous advisory support of the project's
engineering consultants and the Bank's project team. The PIU's competence in
controlling project execution was demonstrated by the adopted approach to project
supervision (para. 27) which enabled effective project monitoring and tracking of project
progress. The approach allowed for cost savings and its success hinged on the high
technical competence of the Pl1U's staff, as well as their continuity, sector knowledge,
and experience with the Bank's procurement, disbursement and reporting requirements
acquired during the implementation of the Power I project.
40.   Nevertheless, the PIU's scheduling of payments for works on the II 5kV line
could have been made more incentive oriented to ensure meeting the deadlines of the
project key milestones. Because of the initial financing delays, the original optimal
project scheduling was thrown out of kilter. In the case of the 115 Kv line, the
mobilization of the contractor was slipped to September 1997 (the middle of the rainy
season). While conditions are not ideal it is possible to carry out effective work in those
areas of the line path least affected by the rains. However, since the contractor had been
paid a large advance once materials and equipment were in place, it created a strong
incentive for not mobilizing until January of 1998. This resulted in a four-month delay of
the project. The combined IBRD-CDB March 98 supervision mission recommended that
the larger portion of all such advances be made against the completion of critical
implementation progress milestones such as contractor mobilization, and not on delivery
of materials.



I1
41.   The delays in executing the diesel plants clean-up environmental component of
the project can partly be explained because of poor budgeting and scheduling during
project preparation, but they do not mitigate the fact that BEL was two years late in
carrying out the Environmental Audit, Mitigation and Cleanup Study of its diesel plants;
and accepted the delivery of a study which required extensive subsequent revisions by
another consulting firm to sharpen the study's recommendations and recast the
conclusions to enable preparation of bidding documents for procuring the required
prevention and clean-up works. A mitigating circumstance is the fact that this was the
first project of its kind in Belize, with relatively large and varied environmental
components, and the lack of both environmental legislation and of local pollution
threshold standards should have been taken into account when the original schedules for
this project component were established. In contrast, BEL's PRU demonstrated a high
level of competence, attention to detail, and a commendable ability to meet deadlines on
the far more complex design and implementation of the Environmental Impact
Assessment of the Transmission Lines.
42.   Regarding the regulatory component under the Borrower's direct control, the
GOB' s working group did not have the required resources for the task of interacting with
the consultants (para. 34). This deficiency, which initially was not acknowledged by the
Borrower, caused significant implementation delays and greater supervision costs to the
project (a second consultant had to be contracted) and the Bank. The group also
presented an imbalance, as it included two BEL engineers who were more acquainted
with power sector issues than the GOB representatives. Finally, the initial consultant
which had been the financial advisor to the GOB/BEL 1992 Working Group in charge of
the first sale of BEL shares to private investors, was contracted under terms of reference
drafted by the regulated entity, BEL. While this did not necessarily produce a conflict of
interest, it created tensions and a confrontational and disruptive atmosphere.
43.   It should be stressed, however, that towards the end of the project the
performance of both the PIU with the assistance of experienced environmental
consultants, and of the properly supported and trained Working Group, was outstanding.
The implementation progress of the environmental clean-up component became
satisfactory, and the enactment of both the new Electricity Act and PUC Act, far
exceeded the more modest original pricing regulatory objectives.
Assessment of Outcome
44.   Since the project achieved all its physical objectives, and substantially and
fundamentally exceeded its institutional and regulatory objectives, the project's outcome
rates as Satisfactory. The bases for rating the project are:
* Fulfillment of economic objectives, as evidenced by the ultimate completion of the
project's physical components, proof of satisfactory current operation, and future
sustainability based on the operational outlook provided by the results of the least-cost
expansion plan recently prepared with the assistance of specialized consultants;
* Development of a satisfactory regulatory framework which exceeded substantially
and fundamentally the scope of the original project objective;



12
* Project execution which did not entail significant unexpected costs (cost overruns
responded to enhanced designs and additional project components);
* The favorable outlook for successful completion of ongoing environmental
remediation and prevention works whose progress to date was deemed satisfactory by
the second. ICR mission during its December 1999 visit to the affected sites
(Appendix Al)
* Compliance with all legal covenants, albeit within more extended schedules than
envisaged in the SAR; and
* Very high likelihood of benefits sustainability.
Future Operation
45.   Future operation. Having successfully executed the project, BEL and the GOB
are suitably poised to derive sustainable benefit from all physical and institutional
components implemented under the project (Appendix C). As to the future, BEL is
currently evaluating options for implementing a new phase for Belize's power system,
consisting of: (i) extending electricity service to other communities off the main grid
through sub-transmission and distribution investments; and (ii) encouraging electricity
use by channeling to consumers the cost-reduction benefits of the project through lower
prices. BEL aims to allow users in small towns to substitute modern for traditional fuels,
and expects that lower generation requirements should free resources to fund these
investments.
46.   With the physical and regulatory assets provided by the project, both BEL and the
sector are now equipped to capture potential opportunities likely to arise from the
expected restructuring of the Mexican Power Sector, the Central American
Interconnection, ongoing sector reforms in other neighboring counties, and the continual
downtrend in the costs of renewable energy technologies.
47    Key Lessons Learned. Many of the implementation problems could have been
avoided by more detailed preparation and identification of training needs, in particular,
relating to the environmental and regulatory project components. Lessons from the
project include:
*  A strong PIU such as the one responsible for this project, with staff continuity
throughout implementation, is essential for successfual project execution, including early
detection and swift action to correct design weaknesses and adapt to changing
circumstances. In this project it also allowed reducing supervision costs by not requiring
a permanent presence of outsourced inspectors.
*  Cost Effective Project Supervision. BEL's successful approach to supervision of
project components, consisted of hiring individual consultants associated with a smaller
firm; it is particularly applicable to those projects where, due to their modest size,
supervision costs can be very substantial relative to the total budget if the traditional
approach of hiring a company with permanent field staff is used.
* Financing arrangements involving multiple cofinanciers should, at some point of
project preparation, include a cofinancing agreement spelling out the parties'



13
commitments together, possibly, with nominal commitment fees and penalties for
withdrawal. Wherever possible, financing arrangements should be made a condition for
negotiations rather than loan effectiveness.
* Budgeting and scheduling for those components that cannot be completely designed at
appraisal requires attention early on during project implementation, to ensure an
effective response regarding adoption of realistic implementation schedules and
adequate budgets, to prevent future delays.
* Wherever possible the Bank should front-load the implementation of institutional
and environmental project components to address them early on during project
execution, when the Bank's leverage is highest.
* Effectiveness conditions should be: (i) limited to predictable mechanical actions and
events -- those involving uncertain outcomes such as securing project-financing should
be conditions for negotiations; and (ii) stated precisely and if possible in quantitative
terms for critical elements -- in this project, minimum conditions for the CFE contract
could have been spelled out and would have reduced the risk associated with an eventual
early termination of the contract.
* Human Resources: at the time of project preparation an objective evaluation of human
resources available for labor-intensive components involving studies can reduce
implementation difficulties by: (i) avoiding the establishment of unrealistic milestones;
and (ii) allowing preventive measures to be taken, such as early satisfactory staffing,
budgeting, training programs or contracting advisory services.
X The Bank should minimize substituting its resources for late identification of
project weaknesses: the latter should be identified and solved through timely project
redesign, training programs or advisory services, to maximize Borrower's project
ownership.
-  Contractual Payment Schedules should avoid creating perverse incentives for
contractors who may delay the project for financial gain. In general, payments should
be linked to milestones critical to project implementation. In this particular project,
smaller up-front contractor payments would have been desirable, linking the larger ones
to full mobilization and start up of critical path activities rather than to delivery of
materials, which have no operational value until they are installed.






15
PART I1 -- STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment Categories         Substantial     Partial     Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                       /
Sector policies                   V
Financial objectives              V
Institutional development         V
Physical objectives               V
Gender concerns                                          _
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives
Public sector management             .
Private sector development
Other
B. Project Sustainability
Likely                     Uncertain                     Unlikel
F_=0=                                                                      - x
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project Cycle     Higly Satisfactory    Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Identification         __
Preparation            _
Appraisal                                             1/
Supervision
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Preparation                                           V
Implementation         _/
Covenant Compliance   _/
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory
x



16
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS- PRECEDING LOANS
Title             Belize Power Project
Loan Number       2749-BEL
Year of Approval  FY1987
Amount            US$7.5 million
Objective         Meet '87-'93 energy requirements, expand distribution, financial and
institutional strengthening
Status            Complete
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle       Planned Date                 Actual/estimated Date
Identification                                                     June 1992
Preparation                                                        June 1993
Pre-appraisal                                                    October 1993
Appraisal                                                        February 1994
Negotiations                                              _      May 5-6, 1994
Board presentation                                                July5, 1994
Signing  _                                                      August8, 1994
Effectiveness                     November 8, 1994              August 9, 1995
Project completion                  June 30, 1997               December 1999
Loan closing                     December 31, 1997               June 30, 1999
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE, ESTIMATED AND ACrUAL
(US$ million equivalent)
FY 1995   FY1996   FY 1997   FY 1998   FY 1999  FY 2000
Appraisal estimate        2.87       6.32      10.92      11.5       11.5      11.5
Actual                     0.0       1.57      3.10       8.84       10.7      11.5
Actual as % of estimate    0%        25%       28%        77%        93%       100%
Date of fimal disbursement: June 22, 1999



17
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJ1ECT IMLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators   Starting Date       Completion Date
Estimated Actual Estima
ted'              Actual
Al. Interconnection of main cities  6/94      8/942    6/97      December 1998 (energization)
and Mexico                       (land surveys)
A2. Cleanup of diesel power         3/95      9/953    6/97   Prevention works: March 2000
plants                            (mitigation                  Clean-up surface soils: June
study)                    2000
Natural attenuation of in situ
soils and underground water:
December 2000
B. Improved pricing and            10/94      31964    3/95
regulations approved by cabinet                                 June 1999 to Parliament; and
(This covenant was amended to                                     August 1999 approved by
"Improved pricing amendments to
Electricity Act")
C. Enhanced                         4/95      8/95 4    3/96             May 1998
management/operational
capabilities of BEL
'Based upon SAR Annex 5.5. 2BTO ofMay 1995. 3BEL 3r Qtly rep. 5"M ofMarch 1997.



18
TABLE 6 - KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJFC'T OPERATION
_________        E~~AR    AUDITED    SAR   AUDITED    SAR    AUDITED    SAR           AUIE        SAR   AUDITED    SARI PROJECTED
AS AT MARCH 31- `Y.            1994       1994      1995      1995    -1999    1-9-99      19-97       1997      1998      1998      1999-      1999
MARKET
GWh Sold - Total               135,16-3   13,77146,959  1-i47,674  1T59,553    13,012  19037    16,0617-8,007  1-l7-2,267  187,315                186,761
-Commercial & Industrial      75132      77,433  82~ 520     5_ 43  _ 91331      85 382   904         8271241            823 108,090             92 40
Residential                  49,635     50,665  53,026    53,917   56,306       55,866  59,849       61,292  62,582      74.444   66,049        80,708
_jstreet ihtag -,-,,,,,         1396       -0,669 _~11410    11,384   11,91.6    11,764  12_374         125712,784 __12,591 _1 3176               1l39~50
Avg. No. ofulCstomers-        3-9,492   ~39,492 42,797  4-2602   46,168             44,104   49,634     46,298  53.119      49,080   56,650        52,963
Total '000-
-Residendal                 3-4732       3432 31            3797      4113       39.253   4444       4126473              3 682   51,230       ___
EFFICIENCY
Number of Employee S               511        450 -   511        450C-   500           400      00         40      500        358      510            360
Castemersls  lo ens                 77         88       8          95       92        110       99         113      106       137      111            147
Mwh sold/Employee         2~~~65     285      288        303      319 -      353      338         360      356       448       367           481
Losses (% set9enerati ____12.2%     10.82%   11.40%1   9.43%   10.73%        9.84%  _10.14%      886    9.58%       1202%    9.58%[        12 02%/
Avg. Tlrermtal Generating        13.59       13.51    0.14      13.54     13.59      13.51    13 59      13.09    35         13,30    13.59         1330
UNIT SUPPLY COST____i
Fue Costp er Dale on                                                                          $1.72      $1.82   $1.77       $1.76                  $1.50
Diesel Fuel & Lube                                I0.1388
0.1260     0.11,441 0.1-291  0.1097  0.1 330       0.113   0.370 _____ 0.1411             0.1326                  0 0770
Re9nta, of -etnetat-rs-                                                                                 0 0059
_______                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.00)74  0.0130
Diesel ()&,M                                                                       0.0740               0.0835
T~tul Diesel Cost on:kwh0.0255     0.0444  0.0263    0.0479   0.0253 _____          0.0263      0.34    00263    0.83        __            0.1304
n,errutd                       0155        01587  01554    01575    01593          0.1924   01633               0. _74     .2237                  0.2204
0.2542___              0.2483
Pu rchases fro mCFjFE                                                      359                          0.1295
0.12891 0.1286    0. 1305   0.135      0.45 0.0952                   0.1007     0.12701___             0.1332
Energy Putchases from BECOL                                                         16                    190          : Z   3                     021
Capacity Charge                                                                          -              000
______________________  ______  _______  _______                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0318  0.0517
Total H~yrlr Coot                                 -0.   ---------67O2413                                            1. 0251024
0.2144     0.176    0.2137              0.2118     025024
Tetal Unit Supply Cost                                                                                  0.2213
_____________________ 0.1482     0.1548  0.1514    0.1538   0. 1860      0.1822   0.1 644           -~ 0.1638    0.2100              -0.2221
FINANCIAL INDCTR
Rateof etun 'itSconribtedcapl.......  3.7  ____        9.79                12.51                 7.30               6.12 __ _7 65
Rate of Relteu nAe g              17        13.72    1.0         9.79     7.01      12.51      7.01       8.71    7.01        8.57     7.02          9.93
Assets lessDetCI
Tangible Net Wortr (indenture S c-9/21w (il        ___         27,212              28,9611              3279--                47              3______ 7_
Current Ratio                     1.38        1.62    1.43       1.45      1.18       1.29     1.201       1.29    12         0.83     1.22           1.29
Long Term Debt as % of total     27.99       27.64    2.94      24.01    41.86       19.94    43.29      22.06   41.84       31.82    39.08         30.47
assets
Debt service ratio                2.03        2.5-217            2.31      1.84       2.73     3.37        2.58    1.99       3.41     1.97           14
Receivables (days)          .    35.00       44.13    35.00     73.10    35.00       92.06    35.00      51.34   35.00       30.80    35.00         40.28
Self Financing ratio              0.82        1.13    0.38       1.03      0.07       0,73     0.47        0.14    0.98       0.16     1.66           0.05
Normnal Tariff Increase (I/)                           0%      0.00%    0.46%       0.00%    0.38%       0.00%   0.64%     -3.87%  -32.00%          0.03%
EARNINGS PER SHARE -              0.23        0.34    0.24       0.20      0.09       0.32     0.20        0.17    0.12       0.18                    0.18
eASIC
EARNINGS PER SHARE -              0.3         03       .4        0.22       .4        02       0.22        0.20    0.16a      0.20                   01
FULLY DILUTED
STRUCTURE OF OPERATING EXPENSES                             ___
Fuel                             38.20       33,7413.5           05      12.7        23.95     3.44      2.8       3.64      20.41     3.78          14.60
Salaries &Wages                  24.10       24.57   23.85      22.60    19.98       19.22    19.98      1.5 19.77           16.13    19.64          14.67
Purchase from Mexico and          6.46        5.81    6.71       7.61      6.46       8.02    11.96        5.77   13.36       5.99    14.50103
Others
PurchasefItm   ell~o              0.00    ~0.00       0.00       0.00    37.2.3      16.57    37.91      25.91   36.53       26.39.   35.01273
Operation S Maintenance           9.33       15.23    11.00     15.50      5.79       9.95     4.14       12.87    4.29      13.64     4.877
Depreciation            ~~~~~12.92  12.76    12.21     12.10     10.65      12.27.   15.44       10.23   15.36        9.87    14.83         10.00
other                             9.00        7.88    8.45      11.65      7.13     '10.03     7.3         6.91    7.05       7.57     6.87           99
Revenues per KWH sold         0.395 7      0.4105  0.3908    0.4021,  0.3931       03981   0.3946       0.4089  06.-3972    0.3986   0.-3959    ~ 0.3~945
Salaries and wages per kwh      0.0781     0.0810  0.73       0.0770   0.72        0.0626 0.60           .63 0074            .57 0072.48
sold
Fulprkh so~ld              013         0.1113 .0.1238    0.1041   0.0455      0.07801  0.0119      0.0757  0.0124      0.0729   0.0129         0.0482
Operations and Maintenance      0.0303     0.0502  0.0359    0.0528   0.0206       0.0324   0.01 43     0.06   0.0146    0.0487   0.0150           0.0257
per kNh sold                I--2                                                                                            -20-6-25          ~     ,~2
Other expenses per kwh sold     0.0292     0.20 00276    0.0397   024              0.37       .246      0.0251   .041       007       .25          002
Purchasdoeorwsl                 0.0209     0.01192   0.0219    006      01556      0.80    .12          0.1150  0.1701      0.1158   0.1727        0.1262
2epreciation per K(wh sold      0.0419     0.0421  0.0398-   0.0412   0.03791   0.03991 0.05341    0.0371  0.0524           0.0353  0.-0507        0.0~330
Total Expenses per KWVH Sold 1  0.32421   0.32971F036T 0401   0.5621   0.32511 0.34551    0.363-011 0.451:354 1 0201                                0.3298
Operating Margin            J   0.07151   0.08081 0.06451   0.0612    0 .03691   0.07261 0.94911    0.04581 0.05671   0.04121 0.05394               0.0647



19
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study              Purpose as defined at         Status               Impact
appraisal/redefined           S
Final designs.  Provide final designs for   Complete           Results were applied to
technical     lines/substations/cable/SCADA                    project execution and
studies       /and reactive                                    control center
power/insulation/relay                          operations,
protection studies
Load study     Characterize BEL's load      Complete          Input to cost of service
(Defined after appraisal).                      and tariff study.
Cost of service  Provide BEL with efficient rate  Complete     Changed BEL's tariff
and tariff     structure to reflect costs of                   schedule to a more cost-
study          supply within constraints, train                reflecting one.
BEL staff.
Clean-up       Determine extent of work     Complete           Provided basis of bids
scope study    required for spill prevention                   for prevention and
and control, noise control,                     cleanup at each plant.
smoke emission control,
remedial decontamination and
environmental training
Environmental  Procedures to be applied for  Complete          No unexpected
Monitoring    monitoring environmental                         environmental effects
Plan           matters during construction                     appeared during
execution.



20
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Item                            (US$mnillion)                    App raisal Estimate                               Actual                    Variatioon
____________________________________                        Local       Foreign         Total         Local       Foreign         Total           %
I - I I SkV interconnection to Mexico                            470         6,150         6,620           817         9,198        10,015        31.0%
2-115kV  S/S and Dangriga connection                             940         3,590         4,530            690        4,763         5,453          4.2%
3-Submarine cable                                                522         5,927         6,449            855        7,686         8,541         14.7%
4-SCADA/ communications                                          230         2,785         3,015          1,245        4,378         5,623        61.5%
5-O&M, vehicles, equipment, tools                                   0          650           650               0          427           427      -43.1%
6-Environmental mitigation in Diesel plants                         0          700           700            934           418         1,352       -67.2%
7-Engineering, Project Mgt., PIIJ                                460         2,070         2,530         2,600          1,549        4,149        42.0%
Cost of service, taniff study                                       0           182           182              4          150           154      -26.7%
Diesel plants environmental mitigation study                        0           182           182              0          218           218         3.7%
Monitoring of EIA                                                    0          182           182                         131           131       -37.7%
Training, TA                                                        0          700           700              15          567           582      -28.0%
Total Base-Line Cost                                           2,622       23,118         25,740         7,160        29,485        36,645        23.3%
Physical contingencies                                           410         2,310         2,720       N.A.          N.A.          N.A.
Price contingencies                                               151         1,119         1,270      N.A.          N.A.          N.A.
Total project costs                                            3,183        26,547        29,730         7,160        29,485        36,645        23.3%
Estimated financial cost (IDC)                                      0        3,250         3,250               0       2,730          2,730       -16.0%
Total project costs (original components)                      3,183       29,797         32,980         7,160        32,215        39,375         19.4%
Office Complex (late addition to the project)                       _        .      .                      700           500         1,200
TOTAL BEL PROJECT COSTS                        3,183   29,797   32,980    7,860   32,715   40,575    23.0%
PART H GOB-Regulatory Frame-Work _  ___                                109           100              __    196_    196   96.4%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     3,183    29,897    33,080                 7,860    32,911   40,771    23.2%
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
|______________________ 1Appraisal Estimate                                                                              Actual
Banco-
Item                      (USsmillion)           IBRD   CDB   CDC   EIB   BEL   Total   IBRD                CDB        EIB      mest      BEL       Total
1-1 5kV interconnection to Mexico                  5,050                        1,570   6,620      7,953          0         0    1,245        817   110,015
2-115kV S/S and Dangriga connection                               4,531                 4,531          0      4.763          0        O       690    5,453
3-Submarine cable                                         6,448                         6,448          0      7.686          0        0       855    8,541
4-SC(ADAi' communications                                                2,785    230   3,015          0          0      4,378        0      1.245    5,623
5-O&MA, vehicles, equipment, tools                   650                                  650        427          0          v        0         0       427
6-Environmental mitigation in Diesel plants          700                                  700        318        100         0         0       934     1.352
7-Engineering, Project Mgt., PIU                   2,070                          460   2,530      1,549          0          0        0      2,600    4,149
Cost of service, tariff study                        182                                  182        150          0          0        0         4       154
Diesel plants environmental mitigation study         182                                  182        218          0          0        0          o      218
Monitoring of EIA                                    182                                  182        131          0          0        0          0      131
Training, TA                                         700                                  700        567          0          0        (         15      582
Total Base-Line Cost                               9,716  6,448  4,531  2,785  2,260  25,740      11,313     12,549      4,378    1,245      7,160   36.645
Physical contingencies                               972    788    547    278    135   2,720           0          0          0        0         0         0
Price contingencies                                  534    249    135    110   242   1,270            0          0              0         0   0          0
Total project costs                               11,222  7,485  5,212  3,173  2,673  29,730      11,313     12,549      4,378    l,245      7,160   36,645
Estimnated financial cost (ItDC)                                                3,250   3,250          0          0          0        0      2,730    2,730
Original financing plan for BEL components        11.222 7,485  5,212  3.173  5       ,887  32,980  11,313   12,549      4,378    1,245      9,890   39.375
BEL's new Office Complex (late added component)          ___                                                    500                           700    1,200
TOTAL FINANCING PLAN - BEL COMPONENTS                                                    -        11,313     13,049      4,378    1,245     10,590   40,575
PART H - GOB's Regulatory Frame Work                 100                        =          O 10      196                                                196
FINAL TOTAL Project Financing Plan                11,322  7,485  5,212  3,173  5,887  33,080      11,509     13,049      4,378    1,245     10,590   40,771
28.2%     32.0%      10.7%     3.1%      26.0%   100.0%
UNUSED FUNDS RETURNED TO BANKS                                                                         9                                                  9
TOTAL ORIGINAL FINANCING PLAN                11,518    13,049      4,378    1,245    10,590   40,780



21
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Bas_ed on assun _tions in Appdix D)
Total  Off-   Off-                          Substi-   Relia-  Relia-  Pur-   Net   Invest-   Net
De-  Peak   Peak  Mexico Mexico Mexico  tution    bility   bility  chase  ope-   men e    Cash
mand Deman HydroimotAg mx Bnftbeftseeis  costs  rating   O&M    Flow
d                                                                   Benefit
FY GWh GWh GWh GWh  MW  MW   MS   GWh  M$  M$  M$   Ms  Ms
1994  148   124                                                                                    0.0
1995  158   133                                                                            0.3    -0.3
1996  170   143                                                                             1.6    -1.6
1997  178   150                                                                             2.9    -2.9
1998  187   157                                                                            13.2   -13.2
1999  195   164    55    109    14.2   15.8        6.5      2.0     0.6    2.7    4.4    14.0   -9.6
2000  205   172    55    117    15.3   17.0        7.0      2.1     0.6    2.9    4.7       1.5    3.2
2001  216   181    55    126    16.5   18.3        7.6      2.2     0.6    3.2    5.1    0.35    4.7
2002  225   189    55    134    17.5   19.4        8.0      2.3     0.7    3.4    5.4    0.35    5.0
2003  236   198    55    143    18.7   20.8        8.6      2.4     0.7    3.6    5.7    0.35    5.4
2004  248   208    55    153    20.0   22.2        9.2      2.5     0.7    3.8    6.1    0.35    5.8
2005  260   219    55    164   21.4   23.7         9.8      2.6     0.8    4.1    6.5    0.35    6.2
2006  273   230    55    175   22.8   25.3    10.5          2.7     0.8    4.4    6.9    0.35    6.6
2007  287   241    55    186    24.3   27.0    11.2         2.9     0.9    4.7    7.4    0.35    7.0
2008  301   253    55    198    25.9   28.7    11.9         3.0     0.9    5.0    7.8    2.35'    5.5
2009  317   266    55    211    27.5   30.6    12.7         3.2     0.9    5.3    8.3    0.35    8.0
2010  332   279    55    224    29.2   32.5    13.5         3.3     1.0    5.6    8.8    0.35    8.5
2011  349   293    55    238    31.1   34.5    14.3         3.5     1.0    6.0    9.4    0.35    9.0
2012  366   308    55    253    33.0   36.6    15.2         3.7      1.1    6.3    9.9    0.35    9.6
2013  385   323    55    268    35.0   38.9    16.1         3.8      1.2    6.7   10.5    0.35    10.2
2014  404   339    55    284    37.1   41.2    17.1         4.0      1.2    7.1    11.2    0.35    10.8
2015  424   356    55    301    39.3   43.7    18.1         4.2     1.3    7.5    11.8    0.35    11.5
2016  445   374    55    319    41.6   46.3    19.1         4.5     1.3    8.0   12.5    0.35    12.2
2017  468   393    55    338    44.1   49.0    20.3         4.7     1.4    8.4   13.2    0.35    12.9
20.3     4.7      1.4    8.4   13.2    0.35    12.9
Off-peak Energy: 0.84of total                      20.3     4.7      1.4    8.4   13.2    0.35    12.9
Savings: 0.06$/kWh                                20.3      4.7      1.4    8.4   13.2    0.35    12.9
%/oReliability increase: 1%                        20.3     4.7      1.4    8.4   13.2    0.35    12.9
Reliability cost 0.3$/kWh                          20.3     4.7      1.4    8.4    13.2    0.35    12.9
20231       1       1                             20.3     4.7      1.4    8.4    13.2    0.35    12.9
1Allowance for future substation expansion
I       I          I        ____   ______    _____   _____    ____            EIRR-    18.4%
Version October 25, 1999



22
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
BELIZE - Second Power Development Project
Text        Covenant  Status  Original  Revised    Description of Covenant                    Comments
Reference  Class                Fulfill    Fulfill i
Date       Date                                                                        l
Loan Agreement
2.02(b)        03         C                            Borrower shall open and maintain, for    Complied with oD Sept 27,
the purposes of the project, a Special  1995
Account in the Central Bank.
2.03           05         C      12/31/97    6/30/99    The closing Date shall be December 31,
1997. (Extended on December 12, 1997
to June 30, 1999).
3.01 (a)       05         c                            Borrower cotmmitted to the objectives of
the project, as set forth in Schedule II of
the Loan Agreement.
3.01 (a)       05         C                            Borrower shall carry out Part H of the  On Junie 29, 1999, the
(i).                                                   Project through MEC with diligence and   covenant was fully
efficiency.                           complied with.
3.01 (a)       05         C                            Borrower shall cause BEL to perform in
(ii)                                                   accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement.
3.01 (b)       03         C                            Borrower shall relend proceeds of the  Subsidiary Loan
Loan allocated to parts A through CG of    Agreement signed July 21,
the Project to BEL under a Subsidiary  1995.
Loan Agreement.
3.01 (c)       13         C                            Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any portion thereof.
3.02           05         C                            Procurement of goods, works and
consultant's services required for the
project shall be govemed by the
provisions of Schedule I1 of the project
.________                                   Agreement.
3.04           12         C      3/31/95               Borrower shall, not later than March 31,  GOB presented a revised
1995, enact regulations for the       Electricity Act and a Plublic
Electricity Act, defining procedures for   I tilities Commission Act
setting of electricity tariffs. (Amended    to Parliamentt on June 25,
on June 25. 1999 to: "Borrower shaDl   1999
present to its legislature not later than
June 25, 1999, amendments to the
Electricity Act, satisfactory to the bank,
defining, inter-alia quality of service and
incentive regulation criteria for the
setting of electricity tariffs.")
4.01 (a)       12         C                            Borrower and the Bank shall, at the
request of either party, exchange views
with regard to the Borrower's electricity
pricing policies.
4.01 (b)       12         C                            Borrower agrees to establish or
authorize electricity prices, under
conditions of efficient operation at
reasonable capacity utilization, to cover
operating costs, earn an adequate return
on invested funds, meet financial
obligations and make a reasonable
contnbution to future investments.



23
Text       Covenant  Status  Original  Revised    Description of Covenant                  Comments
Reference  Class               Fulfll    Fulfill
Date      Date
4.02 (a)    12           C                            Borrower shall maintain or cause to
maintain records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect resources and
expenditures in respect of Part H of the
Project.
4.02 (bXi)  1:3          C                            Borrower shall have the records and  Independent auditors were
accounts, including those of Special  hired to review records and
Account, for each fiscal year audited by   accounts,
independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
4.02(b)(ii)  14         CD                            Furnish the Bank, not later than four  Govermnent submitted
months after the end of each fiscal year,  audited report for special
the report of the auditors.          account for FY95/96 in
Februaiy 1997 Thereafter,
reports were timely
delivered.
4.02 (c)    01          CD                            Same as Section 4.02 for the statements
of expenditures.
Project Agreement
2.01 (a)       05        C                            BEL committed to the objectives of the
[Proj ect                                            project, as set forth in Schedule II of the
parts A                                               Loan Agreement and cany out parts A
through E                                             though E and G of the Project with
and Gl                                                diligence and efficiency.
2.01 (a)       06        C                            BEL shall carry out the              With the assistance of Eco
[Parts F of                                           recommendations of an audit to mitigate  Engineering (Trinidad and
the                                                   enviromnental impacts of its Diesel  Tobago) BEL prepared
Project]                                              Plants.                              bidding documents to
procure services for the
environmental cleaning of
its Diesel Plants. The
works are scheduled to be
completed by June 2000
2.01 (b)       10       CD                            Carry out Project in accordance with (i)   Delay in project execution.
the Implementation Program set forth in   New dates were agreed in
Schedule I, and (ii) the Project     Implementation Program.
performance indicators as set forth in the
Annex to the Letter of Agreement.
2.02           05        C                            Procurement of goods, works, and     BEL followed the
consultants services required for the  guidelines and procedures.
project shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule II of the Project
Agreement.
2.03           13        C                            BEL shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04 to 9.09 of the
CGeneral Conditions in respect of the
Project Agreement.
2.04           05        C                            BEL shall duly perform all of its
obligations under the subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
2.05 (a)       09        C                            BEL shall exchange views with the
Bank with regard to the progress of Part
A to G of the project and the
performance of its obligations under the
_agreements.



24
Text        Covenant  Status  Original  Revised    Description of Covenant                    Comments
Reference  Class                Fulfill    Fulfill
_______    Date     Date
2.05 (b)       09         C                            BEL shall inform the Bank of any
conditions which interferes or threatens
to interfere with the progress of Parts A
to G of the Project.
3.01           09         C                            BEL shall carry on its operations in
accordance with sound administrative,
financial and environmental practices
under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by
competent staff and maintaini a Project
Implementation lJnit with an
organizational structure satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.02           09        CP                            BEL shall operate and maintait its     While BEL has complied
plants, transrnission lines, substations  with all enviromnental
and other machinery, equipment and    requirements for the
property in accordance with sound     construction of all new
engineering, fmancial and             Transmission lies the
environimental practices.             enviromnenital clean-up of
its Diesel Plants is
scheduled to be completed
70%by I)ecember 1999 and
100% by June 2000. See
item 2.0 1(a) above.
3.03           05         C                            BEL shall take out and maintain
adequate insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be
consistelit with appropriate practice.
4.01 (a)       01         C                            BEL shall maintain records, accounts
and financial statements to reflect its
operations and financial conditions
including separate accounts to reflect all
resources and expenditures in
connections with parts A to G of the
project.                        X
4.0 1(b)(i)    13         C                            BEL shall have its records, accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year
audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
4.0 01(b)(ii)  14        CI)                           BEL shall furnish to the Bank, not later   Audited financial
than four months after the end of FY  statements for FY95/96
certified copy of audited financial   were furnished to the Banik
statements and the report of such audit.   in December 1997.
Thereafter, reporting was
1________              ____________________________________    tim ely
4.02 (a)       15         C                            BEL shall earn, for each fiscal year after  BEL has exceeded the 7%
the FY ending on March 31, 1995, an   limit since FY94
annual return of not less than 7% of the
average current net value of BEL's fixed
assets in operation.
4.02 (b)       02         C                            Before January I in each of its FYs,
BEL shall review whether it would meet
the requirements of 4.02 (a) in respect to
such year and the next following FY and
shall furnish to the Bank the results of
such review upon its completion.
4.02 (c)       02         C                            If review in 4.02 (b) shows that BEL
would not meet the requirements set
forth in 4.02 (a), BEL shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to
meet such requirement.



25
Text       Covenant  Status  Original  Revised    Description of Covenant                 Comments
Reference  Class               Fulfill    Fulfill
Date      Date                                                                     I
4.03 (a)      02         C                           BEL shall not incur any debt unless a
reasonable forecast of the revenues and
expenditures of BEL shows that the
estimated net revenues of BEL for each
FY during the term of the debt to be
incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the
estimated debt service.
4.04          02         C                           BEL shall not, during the period of
execution of the project, undertake any
major works or acquire any new assets,
not in the project, involving
expenditures exceeding $500,000 each
unless the Bank has evidence showing
the undertaking is technical, economic
and financially sound.
Covenant Class:                                      Status:
I. Accounts/audit                                C= Complied with
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from   CD= Complied after delay
beneficiaries                                NC= Not complied with
3. Flow and utilization of Project funds         SOON= Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
4. Couniterpart funding                          CP= Complied with partially
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its   NYD= Not Yet Due
executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional
actions
13. (-)ther
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS [NOT APPLICABLE]



26
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
F    Stage of                Labor                  Travel           Total a/
project cycle     Weeks          US$             US$               US$
Through               72.2         151.6           32.0              183.6
appraisal
Appraisal             11.6          29.0            5.5              34.5
through Board
approval
Board approval        3.5           9.4             1.4              10.8
through
effectiveness
Supervision           63.8         178.8           26.2             205.0
Completion            4.0           11.0            3.6              14.6
Total                 155.1        379.8           68.7     T       448.5
a/Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.



27
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of Project    Month and  Days   No. of   Staffing        Rating    Key Areas of Concern/problems
Cycle               Year       in      persons
Field  __ _ _ _
Identification      June 1992  12      3        PE, 2CON       N/A      Issue identification
Preparation         November  5        2        PE, EC, ES    N/A       Environmental issues
1992
Preparation         May/June   9       4        PE, EC, ES,   N/A       Power sector reform, BEL finances,
1993                        FS (CON)                environment
Preparation         July 1993   5      2        PE, ES         N/A      Environmental issues
Pre-Appraisal       October    6       2        PE, FS         N/A
1993                        (CON)
Appraisal           January!    12     3        PE, ES, FS
February
1994
Supervision         May,       5       1        TM             S        Compliance with conditions for loan
1995                                                effectiveness, status of electricity
.                  ~~~~~~pricing regulations.
Supervision         March,     5       3        TM, 2 CDB    S          Pricing regulation studies not yet
1996                        officers               initiated.
Mid-Term Review    March       7       5        TM, FS, 2      S        Inadequate pricing regulation
1997                        CDB officers,  (MTR)   studies.
EIB officer
Supervision         February/  8       4        TM, PE, 2      U        Delays in line construction, delays
March                       CDB officers            in pricing regulations, decision to
1998                                                hire a new consultant for this
purpose. Delays in environmental
component execution. Step up
dialogue to get schedules back on
__________________                  ________                              track
Supervision         October    8       2        TM, PE         U        Delay in environmental component
1998                                                execution/shortage of funds, delays
in pricing regulations. Increases
pressure to complete delayed
components
Supervision +       March      8       3        TM, EC         U        Delays in environmental and pricing
Completion mission   1999                       (CON), 1                regulations components, but with
for Physical                                     CDB officer            positive procurement progress.
Components of                                                           Intense dialogue and pressure
Project and                                                             continues for catching up with
assessment of EIRR                                                      delayed project components
Desk Supervision    April -                      TM            S         Completion of Environmental
June 1999                                           procurement process and
compliance with pricing regulations
covenant enabled upgrading project
rating
Completion Mission   November  5       2        FS(CON),    S            Satisfactory progress on
for Financial       29, 1999                     ES                      environmental component.
sustainability +
progress of
environmental
mitigation
components
Staffing codes: TM= Task Manager, EC= Econoniist, PE= Power Engineer, ME=N Mining Engineer, FS= Financial Specialist, HE=
Hydrocarbons Engineer, OP= Operations Officer, ES= Environment Specialist CON= Consultant



28
APPENDIX A - FIRST PROJECT COMPLETION MISSION
BELIZE
Second Power Development Project (Loan 3776 - BEL)
Aide Memoire
The completion mission took place between March 24 and March 31, 1999. It was staffed by Jorge
Gorri6 (Task Manager) and Fernando Lecaros (consultant). The mission objectives included (a)
assessing the status of completion of all project components as described in the Project's SAR and
Supervision reports; (b) reviewing and discussing with BEL the draft Project Completion Report
(PCR) prepared by BEL's Project Implementation Unit (PIU); and (c) identifying requirements for
finalizing the Bank's Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
1  Background. Although the project was initially scheduled for completion by June 30, 1997 with
a view to a December 31, 1997 loan closing date, delays in arranging for financing led to a closing
extension until June 30, 1999. As of the completion mission there were still a number of project
components which had yet to be implemented. However, most elements have already been
completed and the overall state of the project allowed the mission to accomplish its objectives,
benefiting, inter alia, from ready access to project files and implementation information while project
execution is still in progress.
2. Project status. Table I summarizes the status of project components as of March 31, 1999.
Subcomponents are included for those items which still require significant work before they can be
considered to be complete.
Table 1: Status of oject components as of March 31, 1999 9
Project Componeiit               Status                   Comments
1. Intercoinection with Mexico             Operating    BEL to implement protection of structures
.___________________________________                  in sugar cane/inundated areas1
2. 115kV S/S and l)angria colnection  0        Oerating
3. Submarine cable and San Pedro connection  Operating
4. Dispatch center building, conmmunications,  Operating
SCADA
5. O&M vehicles, equipment, tools          Acquired
6. Environmental clean-up of diesel plants:
e  Spill prevention (CDB financed)          Pending     BEL yet to complete procurement
*  Mitigation (IBRI) financed)              Pending     processes and execute (approx. $1 million
total)
7. Consultants, project management, studies  Near       Project management to continue until
completion    completion. Pricing regulations are still to
be issued officially.
8. Traiinig and TA                        Implemented
9. Management Infonnation System           Operating



29
3. Incomplete components and project outcome assessment. Three negative implementation
aspects were flagged in Table I which require clarification:
The protection of 295 structures on the line to Mexico is estimated to cost US$250,000
(equivalent to less than 3 percent of component cost), and BEL will complete it by mid-July, 2000
(an earlier date is not possible as work on the inundated areas is limited to the dry season);
completion of this component (which consists of filling existing cribs with gravel) presents no major
obstacles and is likely to be executed by the indicated date;
The pricing regulations have not yet been issued and are currently being studied by GOB, but the
required study was executed and the regulations are likely to be issued before closure
The delays in implementing the clean-up of the diesel power plants (extensively documented in
the main Aide Memoire), which cannot be entirely blamed on BEL, given that it would require
shutting them down, which could not be done before having assured supplies from Mexico -a
problem which was not envisaged in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)2-.
4. Status verification. The implementation of all major physical components was verified by aerial
as well as on-site visits. However, the definitive status report will only be available once BEL's
supervision consultants deliver it around end-April 1999.
5. Project benefits and preliminary assessment. Benefits of the project have already materialized:
* The generation of diesel plants in Belize, San Pedro and Dangriga is being substituted by
imports from Mexico, thereby generating operating savings;
* Substitution of diesel generation has led to environmental benefits by significantly
reducing emissions and the chance of spillage; and
* Service quality has improved through better frequency control and greater service
continuity by virtue of the connection to the Mexican power system.
Despite these positive aspects, the delays in executing the environmental clean-up of the diesel plants
would block the possibility of an overall satisfactory assessment, unless there is an assurance that this
component is going to be executed reasonably soon.
6. Discussion of BEL's draft PCR. The draft completion report prepared by BEL was examined
by the mission; it contains most of the information required by the Bank's operating guidelines for
completing the ICR, pending data for items which are still under implementation or are yet to be
initiated.
7. Although BEL's document identifies the direct benefits of the project mentioned above, it is
suggested that the institutional benefits be highlighted as well, by discussing issues such as:
2Staff Appraisal Report, Belize-Second Power Development Project, June 13, 1994. World Bank
report No. 12862-BEL



30
*  Will, operating savings translate into lower rates for consumers?
*  What has been the impact of-the tariff study financed by the project on BEL's rate
structure?
*  How will the reduced operating costs and environmental benefits attributable to the
projects be captured by the privatization of BEL?
*  Has the project facilitated the privatization process?
BEL's PCR should include a summary which should not exceed 10 pages, which will be included as
the borrower's contribution to the Bank's ICR.
8. Further steps. Given that there were minimal changes in scope during implementation, this
project is well-suited for a review of its expected ex-post performance based on the SAR economic
analysis methodology, which comprises:
a cost effectiveness analysis based on the comparison between system costs with the project against
those incurred under another plausible technical alternative (viz. isolated diesel plants for this
particular project) which provides the "equalizing discount rates" for which the project is justified
relative to the alternative; and
an economic analysis to assess the project's Net Present Value (NPV) and the Economic Internal
Rate of Return (EIRR).
9. To execute this ex-post analysis will require an updating of the following Annexes in the SAR:
- Annex 2. 1; Petroleum product prices in Belize City; update to 1999 for diesel oil;
*  Annex 3.1; BEL's diesel capacity: update according to post-1993 additions/retirements,
=  Annex 3.2; BEL's sales and peak demand forecast: update historical values and project to
2010;
*  Annex 3.3; BEL's capacity and energy balances: update 1993-1998 according to
historical record and projections for 1999-2010;
*  Annex 5.2; Mollejon hydro production update (actual and expected);
*  Annex 5.3; Purchase price from Mexico: update according to latest agreement;
10. In addition to the above, the following data will be required to complement the ICR:
* BEL's current and expected tariff levels for supporting the economic analysis;
* An update of Annex 6.4 (Key Performance Indicators) -historical data and projections for
1999-2010 to provide an overall quantitative assessment;



31
  A sustainability analysis; for the project to be effective it will require (a) adequate
maintenance of physical assets; (b) ensuring a continuing purchase contract with Mexico;
(c) implementing sector reforms and effective regulation. Items (a) and (b) can be assured
by verifying that the power sector's financial outlook is solid through financial
performance projections similar to those in SAR Annexes 6.1 to 6.3. Item (c) requires a
commitment to passing the necessary legislation and approving regulatory norms; and
*  An analysis of system losses with/without the project: losses along the Mexico-Belize
City 11 5kV line have apparently increased overall electricity losses; this may be the case
when losses are calculated according to energy delivered to the lines, but it may not be so
when considering station use, which has decreased significantly; BEL's PCR should
address this issue in order to take into account all costs/benefits of the project by
estimating overall losses including station use.
11. Summary of lessons learnt as discussed with BELI/PU. Some of the issues which arose during
project implementation and are worth keeping in mind for future operations consist of.
Delays associated with finalizing financing arrangements;
Conflicting procurement guidelines;
Managing lump sum contracts and prepayments;
Alternative supervision arrangements;
Incorporating new components to the project.
12. The major sources of delay were related to financing arrangements. Because of multiple
financiers, replacing one of them (which had sought unacceptable conditions), led the Bank's loan
effectiveness date to be set back by 9'/2 months (from November 8, 1994 to August 24, 1995). In
projects with multiple financing sources, the Bank's effectiveness condition, which is contingent on
all arrangements being finalized, should preferably be a precondition to the Loan Agreement itself,
thereby ensuring that the latter is practically the last step before the project can go ahead.
13. Another problem associated with multiple financiers is the potential conflict arising from
different procurement rules. In the project it was avoided by associating different packages with each
financier, but the multiplicity of conditions complicated project management.
14. A fixed-sum contract for a transmission line contract was a major source of delay. BEL prepaid a
large percentage which was supposed to finance the purchase of materials. The contractor delayed
mobilizing (and could have made use of the advance for financing other projects); in retrospect, it
would have been better to adopt a policy of advancing payments only after a contractor mobilizes,
when there is greater assurance that the advance will be allocated to the project.
15. Project supervision can add significantly to costs particularly with smaller projects. BEL reduced
costs successfully by contracting for supervision with consultants who would inspect the project
regularly but were not permanent or resident staff This arrangement reduced supervision costs
markedly.



32
16. The major source of contention upon completion has been the cleanup of diesel plants. This
component was not envisaged during the project design stage and was added without giving much
thought to its implementation requirements. A study of the clean-up logistics would have helped in
foreseeing the problems involved and taking advance measures to solve them.



33
APPENDIX Al - SECOND PROJECT COMPLETION MISSION
BELIZE
BELIZE ELECTRICITY LIMITED
Second Power Development Project (Power II Project)
IBRD loan 3776-BEL and CDB Loan 14/or-BZ
AIDE MEMOIRE
Joint Supervision and 2nd Completion Mission -Nov. 29- Dec. 3, 1999
1. This Aide Memoire summarizes the mission's3 main findings and understandings with
Government of Belize (GOB) and Belize Electricity Limited (BEL) and may be subject to further
comments and formal ratification from BEL and the management of the Banks.
2. The mission had the opportunity to meet with Mr. Gilbert Canton, President of the newly created
Public Utilities Commission (PUC); Mr. Herman Charlesworth, Director General of the Office of
Electricity Supply (OES); Ms. Katherine Mendez, Project Officer, Secretary of Finance; Mr. Lynn
Young, Chief Executive Officer, BEL; and Mr. Fernando Coye, Chief Operations Officer, BEL. The
main objectives of the mission were to assess progress of (a) the ongoing environmental prevention
and clean-up works at BEL's diesel power generation plants; (b) the remaining activities that need to
be completed to achieve 100 percent commissioning of all project components relating to the
Transmission lines and substations; (c) reviewing and commenting on the recent Least Cost
Generation and Transmission Expansion Study; and (d) receive comments and review the draft
Project Implementation Completion Report (ICR) sent to GOB, OES and BEL on November 11,
1999. The mission thanks the GOB and BEL for the effective support and courtesies received.
Annex 1 lists the persons met during the mission.
A. Progress of Environmental Prevention and clean-up works
Conclusions
3. Progress to date on prevention and environmental clean-up activities can be characterized as
satisfactory. The existing contractual arrangements already in place and the ongoing remediation
work at San Pedro and the biocell construction and operation at Ladyville, indicate a strong
commitment by BEL to clean-up its plants. They also underscore the competence of the two
contractors, Ecoengineering and TriHydro. This level of progress and institutional momentum needs
to be maintained to ensure timely and satisfactory completion. The mission visited all plant sites
undergoing mitigation works and BEL organized a very thorough and technical presentation on the
overall work program which was delivered with the assistance of TriHydro and Ecoengineering (the
background for these conclusion are shown in Annex 2)
3The mission comprised from the IBRD: Messrs. Jorge Gorri6 (Consultant - ex-Task Manager of the project - retired
from the IBRD since July/3 1/99) and Jack Fritz (Sr. Enviromnental Specialist). And from the Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB): Ms. Allison Davis, (Project Officer, Economic Infrastructure Unit)..Principal counterparts of the mission
were Mr. Derek Davis, BEL's Operations Manager and Director of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and Chief
representatives of Ecoengineering, Consultant supervising the environmental components of the project, and TriHydro,
Contractor for the prevention and clean-up works of BEL's Diesel Plants.



34
4. Remediation Strategy. The most usual, cost effective remediation strategy is to rely on natural
attenuation as much as possible because it depends on underground in-situ microbial activity needing
little or no chemical additives. The microbes feed on the waste hydrocarbons as an energy (carbon)
source and produces water and carbon dioxide as waste products. Attenuation pace is determined
through laboratory tests to measure bacteria concentrations and their ability to grow using
hydrocarbon waste products. These tests are complemented by in-situ tests to determine reduction
rates in the strength of the waste in the soil on a mg/l basis. Reductions in concentration indicate that
microbial action is taking place. Samples are taken over a significant period, perhaps quarterly, over
a year. Plotting these data results in asymptotic curves or straight lines if plotted on a log scale. This
is the process that has been determined to be the most effective for the San Pedro plant, and the other
sites. Since the soil containing the contaminating free-product could not be removed until September
1999 (the Biocell was commissioned in August 1999) not enough time had elapsed to allow sufficient
settlement of the disturbed surface and underground soils left over at the plants to enable the October
1999 sample tests to provide meaningful results from an analytical standpoint. The mission therefore
agrees that samples continue to be taken quarterly and that by the third quarter of 2000, it will be
possible to make a final assessment as to the rate and scope of the expected time that will be required
to achieve the naturally decontamination targets.
5. The mission found all the activities to date to be sound, well planned, cost effective, and in the
long-term interest of BEL and the environment of Belize. However, it is critical that this satisfactory
pace be maintained so that all works are completed according to the following agreed schedule
among BEL, Ecoengineering and TriHydro:
a) prevention works by end-March 2000;
b) remediation works of surface soils treated by the biocell at Ladyville, by end-June 2000; and
c) remediation of non-removed soils and of the contaminated underground water of the San
Pedro Plant, in line with original expectations, in-situ natural conditions and contractual
arrangements, will take longer but are expected to be substantially advanced by the third quarter
of 2000 -
6. Favorable Conditions. Arrangements and incentives in place oriented to provide proper
monitoring and continued momentum through completion include:
a) Corporate commitment. Since October 1999, BEL is owned by Fortis, a private Canadian
utility committed to sound environmental management. Also, BEL has committed over one
million US$ to complete the required works
b) Image and Financial Incentives. The prevention and clean-up contract is the first outside the
US for TriHydro, and the payment schedule for the works is performance based.
Management of the component by BEL and performance of the contractors has been
relatively problem-free since the contracts for the clean-up and prevention works were signed
in March and June 1999 respectively
c) Continuous supervision by BEL, quarterly testing (under the contract with TriHydro),
periodic monitoring by the supervision consultant Ecoengineering, and quarterly progress
reporting by BEL with the assistance of Ecoengineering. And the recent purchase of a high
efficiency oil/water separator to ensure that waste oil has the high oil concentrations required



35
by the food processing industries, thereby minimizing or eliminate storage of these oils at
BEL facilities.
d) Absence, so far, of unexpected surprises in terms of site characteristics and early remediation
results;
e) Favorable conditions for natural biodegradation. The test results have revealed the existence
of concentrations of TPH-eating micro-organisms which are more effective in the local
tropical climate (abundant rain, sun and year-round warm temperatures);
f) Visibility. The component is very visible and has the attention and support of Belize's
Department of the Environment (DoE);
7 Potential Risks, Agreements and Recommendations. While having an expected low probability
of occurrence, the following are possible developments that could complicate and delay the clean-up
schedule:
a) Unforeseen higher concentrations of existing or new contaminants may be found, or natural
attenuation may fail to materialize at the expected rates. Should any of this happen, current
contractual obligations with TriHydro, under the supervision of Ecoengineering contemplate
the design and implementation of the appropriate chemically-aided response to achieve the
desired attenuation levels;
b) The fruit (citrus) processors, which have historically collected a substantial amount of the
used lubricating oil used in BEL's Diesel plants, may reduce their uptake or go out of
business. It was agreed that BEL will request Ecoengineering to (i) visit and interview the
Citrus processors to assess their current and expected capacity to collect and burn the waste
oil produced by BEL; and (ii) report on the conclusions of such assessment in
Ecoengineering's progress report due in April 2000, including a short list of options that may
need to be evaluated and followed by BEL to get rid of the waste oil should the citrus
processors off-take capacity be determined to be insufficient. The mission recommends that
BEL enter into a formal understanding or preferably an agreement with the citrus processors
and other industrial users to take this oil once a minimum water content can be guaranteed
with the use of the high efficiency oil/water separator.
c) Sub-optimal performance of the newly created environmental management unit within BEL
that may be due to inadequate staffing, performance incentives, or training. The mission
recommends that the Environmental Operations Manual (EOM) and related staff training
should be completed soonest to prevent inter-alia contaminating events such as spillages,
which in one recent instance took place at an already cleaned-up fuel-pipe trench in one of the
plants. It was agreed that: (i) BEL's environmental unit with the assistance of
Ecoengineering will prepare a full outline of the EOM; (ii) Ecoengineering and TriHydro will
advice BEL on possible sources and web-sites where copies of similar manuals could be
obtained to simplify BEL's drafting task; (iii) BEL will prepare the draft EOM and
Ecoengineering will provide detail comments; and (iv) BEL will issue the EOM by March 3 1,
2000.
d) Undue expectations from: (i) the Belize municipality, as to the extent of BEL's
responsibilities in the clean-up of the small lagoon adjacent to the Belize City diesel plant;
and (ii) from the San Pedro Town Board, in the mitigation of the underground water at the
San Pedro plant - these risks result from the existence of polluting sources other than BEL's



36
plants at both these sites. It was agreed that BEL will (i) convene a meeting at the earliest
opportunity with the appropriate representatives from the Municipality of Belize City, the San
Pedro Town Board, and the DoE, to deliver a presentation with the assistance of
Ecoengineering and TriHydro on the details and extent of the mitigation works being
undertaken by BEL at the two sites, and including broad recommendations of options that the
municipal authorities may pursue to achieve a reasonable level of overall mitigation of
pollutants unrelated to those produced by BEL's plants; (ii) follow up the presentations with
formal BEL's communications addressed to the three authorities ratifying the extent of BEL' s
clean-up commitments and any other points advanced or clarified during the presentations;
(iii) send copies of those communications to the Banks together with copies of the
presentations in Ecoengineering' s report due in April 2000
e) The mission recommends that special attention and monitoring be provided to the clean-up
of the Ladyville plant due to the existence of more extensive contamination.
8. Access to Escrow Account. Pursuant to the June establishment of the Escrow Account, the
following procedure was agreed: (a) TriHydro bills approved by BEL's PIU (Mr. Derek Davis) and
cleared by Ecoengineering (Dr. George Sammy) are mailed to IBRD's Mr. Bernie Baratz or Mr. Jack
Fritz for clearance- depending on who is present in Washington to receive the bills as ascertained by
the PIU; (b) Messrs. Baratz or Fritz will review the bills and will draft a brief letter for the signature
of the Energy Unit Sector Leader Ms. Sue Goldmark or if deputizing Mr. Nelson de Franco - the
letter addressed to the Bank of Nova Scotia in Belize will authorize payment of the bills to TriHydro.
It was agreed that the IBRD will send the specimen signature of Ms. Sue Goldmark to the Bank of
Nova Scotia before Christmas.
B. Status of Pending Project components
9. The mission reviewed the Project Completion Reports issued by the three Engineering
Consultants in charge of supervising the implementation of the principal project components: (a)
Corporacion Seta for the 84 mile 115 kV interconnection line with Mexico; (b) NEI Electric Power
Engineering for the procurement of Transformers and construction of Substations; and (c) AGRA CI
Power for the studies and engineering design and procurement of the major project components and
construction supervision of the 34 kV submarine cable, the overall control (SCADA) and
communications hard and software for the national interconnected system. As reported in the March
1999 preliminary completion mission, all project components are operational and have now been
fully commissioned and are completing their first year guarantee periods where contract retention
moneys are being paid out as the various contractors fulfill final inspection requirements for their
works. Below are the status of still pending construction items relating to the Interconnection line
with Mexico and the Substations, and of studies completed after June 30, 1999.
The 115 kV Transmission Line (financed by IBRD)
10. The line was energized on December 3, 1998, with outstanding works identified during the March
1999 mission as follows:
a) Installation of 165 structure protection in the northern part of the country, where the line
passes through the cane fields. These special installations are required to prevent damage to
the 115 kV Line when the cane fields are burned by the sugar cane farmers



37
b) Installation of 130 structure protection on structures which are inundated by water along the
line route. Such protection necessary to prevent the undermining of the structures over time.
I 1. As of December 3, 1999, the installation of the structure protection required in the sugar cane
fields, were completed. The installation of the protection in the water-inundated areas is scheduled
for the forthcoming dry season, February to June 2000, when the areas are accessible.
Least Cost Generation and Transmission Expansion Study (Financed by IBRD)
12. The study prepared by GE (USA) was delivered on October 29, 1999. The main conclusions are
bulleted below, with brief comments from the mission. Because of their relevance, IBRD's
comments to the study were addressed by GE in its covering letter of the study, which is attached to
this aide-Memoire as Annex 4,
l. Load-Growth
* Project healthy growth to about 440 GWh by 2012
* Should be revisited annually
2. Generation-Plane Pursue IPP construction of Challilo dam and powerhouse (mission comments: (a)
in its summary presentation GE underlines that due consideration needs to be given both to the
considerable capital costs of Challilo and to ensuring that its potential environmental impacts can be
favorably mitigated; and (b) the study's recommended expansion option assumes that Challilo
(provided that its related issues are favorably resolved) begins operations in April 2003 - this date
leaves very little time to sort out the pending issues and complete the construction by the required date.
* Continue off-peak CFE purchase up to 25MW contract limit
* Install new high-speed diesels for peaking starting in 2000
* Plan for low-speed base-load diesel plants in 2006
* Plan for medium-speed diesels in 2009
* Consider BESS for peak displacement starting in 2012
* Retire Magazine Road plant ASAP
3. Transmission-Plan
* Anticipate transformer upgrades at Dandriga, San Ignacio and Buena Vista
* Location of future generation may drive need for transformation at West and Magazine Road
- Integration of Independence requires upgrading Dandriga line to  115kV
* Integration of isolated areas not an economic issue
4. Total Energy Cost (Mission Comment: GE should have defined this title as "total energy and
capacity (E&C) cost")
* Improvement to less than 80/Kwh is not feasible (The mission disputes the definitiveness of this
conclusion because the evaluation of the following scenarios were outside the scope of the GE study.
These scenarios, alone or combined, are not unrealistic and have the potential of producing
significantly lower overall E&C Costs and should be explored, both analytically and contractually,
soonest by BEL: (a) in the short term, direct purchase of additional E&C from private producers in
Mexico (Merida Plant) - this may require the assistance of GOB, to facilitate BEL to negotiate with
CFE, (prior to the eventual Mexican Privatization of Generation and Establishment of Transmission
Open Access) an ad-hoc open access intemational bilateral agreement to enable incremental purchases
from the Merida Plant in particular and from the Yucatan Peninsula in general, or from any other new
or existing Mexican IPP; (b) exercise the contractual option of Buying back the Mollejon Plant from
BECOL at a renegotiated cost more compatible with the now proven hydrological potential - this
option will require a prior careful analysis of scenarios to determine negotiating positions and



38
strategies, including a final determination of whether the Challilo option is in fact feasible (financially
at various scenanros of future hydrologies and oil prices, and environmentally) to realistically and
authoritatively factor it into the negotiating strategy; (c) evaluate the potential of Belize's new
interconnection with Mexico becoming a wheeling resource to supply the power needs of the
neighboring provinces of neighboring countries (Guatemala in particular) to enable contractual tapping
into that flow to cover the much smaller local needs; and (d) BEL should actively consider, per GE
recommendations, replacing their older Diesel units for modern and considerably more efficient ones.
Substations and Transformers (financed by CDB).
13. Implementation. The construction components funded by the Caribbean Development Bank are
essentially complete. A few minor defects are expected to be rectified by the contractor before the
expiration of the defects liability period. Failing adequate rectification of these defects, BEL has
access to retention money in the amount of BZ$380,000. Some of the rectification works associated
with the defects have become the responsibility of either BEL or the manufacturer. These are
outlined below.
14. Manufacturer's Responsibility.
* Defective micro trip mechanism on the reclosers. All of the eleven reclosers will be returned
to the manufacturer for modification on a phased basis over the next 4 - 5 months. Four are
malfunctioning and will be sent first. The other will be sent for a thorough checkup under the
manufacturer's warranty.
15. BEL's Responsibility:
a) An oil leak on the transformer at the Buena Vista Substation. This will be fixed at the
same time that the routine protection checks are being carried out at the substation. Any prior
attempt to effect this repair would have required the shutdown of both the Corozal and Orange
Walk Substations. BEL is presently seeking approval from Mexico to utilize the old 34.5 kV
line to supply these two substations during the Buena Vista shutdown. It is anticipated that
the required works will take about one day.
b) Erosion at Dangriga Tap Substation as a result of clay soil. BEL will seek and report to
CDB a civil engineering opinion by January 14, 2000 on the approach that needs to be taken
for the long term solution of this problem -- the erosion does not pose an immediate threat to
the integrity of the substation's foundation.
c) A sagging jointed section of the bus bar at the Dangriga Tap Substation. The contractor
has provided a straight section for the bus bar, but was unable to replace it because the citrus
factories were being supplied at the time. BEL will therefore replace this bus section during
the routine maintenance in July 2000.
BEL's reporting Requirements
16. Pursuant to contractual commitments, BEL informed the mission that it will continue to provide:
a) Quarterly progress reports until all pending project components and issues are fully
resolved.



39
b) Yearly Financial Auditing Reports, in line with IBRD's Project, Special Account, and
Corporate auditing requirements for the years in which the project accounts (closed on
October 29, 1999) and the escrow account at the local branch of the Bank of Nova Scotia
(slated to close on June 30, 2000) undergo any accounting activity. This means that the
audited financial statements for both BEL and for all the accounts of the Project and of the
Special Account relating to the IBRD loan for the fiscal years ending on March 31, 2000 and
2001 will be sent to the Bank.
C. Comments To The Draft Project Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
17. On December 2, 1999, the mission met with Senior and Executive representatives from the
Secretary of Finance, the PUC, OES and BEL to review and comment on the draft ICR. On behalf of
the Banks, the mission took the opportunity to congratulate, the GOB's, OES' and BEL's teams,
responsible for implementing the project, for their coordination and effectiveness in having achieved
a successful implementation of all completed project components. And to BEL, for the progress to
date and putting in place a favorable set of conditions that substantially increase the probability of
completing successfully the ongoing prevention and clean-up works of BEL's diesel plants. The
principal comments received are summarized in Annex 3.
For the Belize Electricity Ltd:       Lynn Young        [NOTE: The original signed
Document is in the project file]
Derek Davis
For the Caribbean Development Bank    Allison Davis
For the World Bank:                  Jorge F. Gorri6
Jack Fritz
Belize City, December 3, 1999



ID#735,From: 202-473-8787,   To: World B, 40                             20DEC99, 04 :58,Page002of002
12/20/1999  16:05    501232376                        BEL DISPATCH CENTER                   PAGE  01
P06-af  Fax Note 7672                       .                     / jloe  3: 5
TO    j nnFrcm                                                  J w      -     )ezei.
LoseQn                                                  LOcatin                     pt Charge   q
F1xe~~~~~~~~~QcQ  6/A                     *~~~~~~~~~~~~~iPw*tio      einhn
JJEC  6 '?~04;4ATPM WB LCSFF- [IATERCtTEP2'
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~o  W F,CU'TRp
ID#VSUJ- 4rom:-,m,ZU-4        PU,   toT- :W,or Id Enk,              150EC99,09:47.PageUVJZof002
DE-C 15 '99  el9: 56P5   4B RS;TTP                                               P  /
RI' amud CDB Joint Supervision/2" ICR Minion -P.gewber/3/99 9"
C. COWMNTS TEO THn DRAFT PRoOJECT IMPLEM3ENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
17. On Dec./2/99, the rmission met with Senior and Executive representatives from the Semetary of
Finance, the PUC, OES and 3EL to review and comment on the draft ICR. On behalf of the
Banics, the rmission took the opportunity to congratulate, the GOB's, OPS' and EEL's teems, re-
sponsibte for implomenting the project, for their ooordination and effectivess in having achieved
a suaccessful implementation of all completed project components. And to BE., for the progress
todate snd putting in place a favorable set of conditions that substantially increase the probability
of comploting suooessfnlly the ongoing prevetion and lclan up works of BEU-s diesel plants.
The prtacipal comments received are summarized in AxatiX 3.
For the Belize Electricity Ltd:        Lyan Yotng
Dreok Davis
For the Caribbean Development Bank    Allison Davis
For the World Bank;                    Jorge E. Gorri6
Jack Fritz
Belize City, December 3, 15S999
C:Aw 9ordocsWElV4n99  2'.znoncmc99i2COn
"12/3S199



41
Annex 1
Aide Memoire -December 3, 1999
LIST OF PARTICIPANTS AND PERSONS MET
Secretary of Finance
Ms. Katherine Mendez     Project Officer, Secretary of Finance
Ministry of Public Utilities, Transport and Telecommunications
Mr.Gilbert Canton        President of the Public Utilities Commission (PUC)
Mr. Herman Charlesworth   Director General Office of Electricity Supply (OES)
Mr. Victor Lewis         Power Sector Restructuring and Regulations Consultant, OES
Belize Electricity Limited
Mr. Lynn Young           CEO
Mr. Fernando       Coye COO
Mr. Derek Davis          Coordinator, Power II - Project Implementation Unit
Mr. Michael Polonio Business Development Manager
Mr. Ambrose Tillett      Senior Project Engineer
Mr. Joel Torres          Environmental Facilities Supervisor
Ecoengineering Consultants Ltd. (Consultant to BEL - Supervision of Environmental Works)
Dr. George Sammy         Managing Director
TriHydro Corporation (Contractor for environmental prevention and clean-up works)
Mr. Jack Besessem        Vice President
Mr. George Mathis        Manager



42
ANNEX 2
Belize: Second Power Development Project
Progress to Date on the Environmental Component
(Based on Sample Test Reports of the Third Quarter 1999)
Conclusions (are shown in the main text, page 1)
Background
1. A major component of the 2nd Power Development Project for Belize was to assist Belize Electricity
Limited (BEL) in (a) completing Belize's national transmission grid, and building an interconnection with
Mexico and a submarine cable to the Amber Gris Island to interconnect its capital city of San Pedro; and (b)
remediating and managing their principal generating assets with an eye towards long term environmental
sustainability. Belize has fragile ecosystems, which could easily be damaged. An increasing portion of its
foreign exchange comes from tourism linked to the attractiveness of these ecosystems and therefore sound
environmental management is a high priority. The objective of this mission was to assess progress in the
Diesel Plant prevention and clean-up works financed under the project.
2. Among the principal objectives of the project is the de-commissioning of three diesel plants at Corozal.,
Orange Walk and Dangriga. Because of their relatively small size, remote location, and clay composition of
their underlying soils, remediation in Corozal and Orange Walk will be carnred out strictly by in-situ natural
attenuation. Dangriga's contaminated soil will be cleaned up at the Ladyville biocell. The remaining four
plants at San Pedro, Belize City, Ladyville, Belmopan have been placed into a permanent standby for peaking,
reserve, or emergency use because of more economical electricity supplies from local hydropower sources
and from Mexico. Project financing was made available for spill prevention and clean-up works at the larger
Diesel plants (Belize city, Ladyville, Belmopan, Dangriga, and San Pedro. Principal environmental concems
which needed to be dealt with at these plants during project implementation include hydrocarbon
contamination at the surface soil, within the soil, and groundwater.,
3. Early Investigations.- Initial site investigations were carried out by Miller and Miller who collected
much of the geotechnical data in early 1996. This work was followed by Ecoengineering Consultants Ltd.
who were retained in 1998 to assist BEL in developing plans for the implementation of prevention and clean-
up activities from preparation of tender documents, through selection of a contractor and monitoring of their
activities for BEL. Ecoengineering produced a summary report in mid-1998 detailing the environmental
situation at each of the plants. This document became the substance for the tender documents for
implementation of the clean-up program, and its main findings are summarized below together with the
results of initial contamination tests.
Prevention and Clean-up Program
4. The contractor selected for the prevention and clean-up program was TriHydro Corporation of Laramie,
WY. The program consists of two related contracts, (i) power station clean-up, and (ii) spill prevention works.
The clean-up program is basically testing and remediation of contaminated soils (and groundwater in San
Pedro) whereas the spill prevention work includes design and construction of aprons and other spill prevention
works. As part of the contract, BEL, with the advise of Ecoengineering, is responsible for basic housekeeping
and prevention operations (containment of spills, the use of oil/water separators, storage and disposal of stored
sludge and spent lubricants, treatment of contaminated runoff and a program of monitoring. The works have
been set up with a clear understanding that remediation of contaminated soils and treatment of potentially
contaminated groundwater needs to go hand in hand with preventing further spills and contamination. The
current work program phases these two activities at each plant and take into account the importance that re-
contamination not take place after the site has been remediated.
5. The clean-up program and spill prevention works are being carried out in a logical sequence based on
addressing the most critical issues first. To a large extent this has already been done with the clean-up of the



43
San Pedro plant. Soil clean-up (remediation) works consists of soil removal and treatment via an aerobic
biocell. The design of this biocell is based on experience elsewhere with hydrocarbon-contaminated soils.
Treatment of contaminated runoff and waste oil will be via separators for wastewaters contaminated with oil
and high efficiency separators for oils contaminated with water. The cleaned oil is usually recycled if its
lubricating properties are intact or is bumed off-site by industrial users for process heat.
6. Capacity of the plants undergoing remediation and prevention range from a few hundred kW to
approximately 15 MW each. Most of the units are medium speed, marine type diesels, some of which have
already been de-commissioned and are being used for spare parts. Since they will be used on a stand-by or
peaking basis, only the minimum of maintenance needs to be performed. Several engines have been
disassembled and fuel and lubricant spills can be found at the sites. Contamination is most evident around the
fuel tanks, many which date from the 1950s, the fuel lines going to the engines, spent lubricant storage areas,
sumps and cable trenches.
7. The most critical situation appeared to be at San Pedro because of its unique tourist potential and location
in the middle of the community, on an island. Fine sand and silt underlies it. with a fresh water lens only a
meter or two below grade. The highest soil contamination level was of the order of 24,000 ppm for TPH (total
petroleum hydrocarbons) and small quantities of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and semi-VOCs
(SVOCs) were also detected. Because of its critical location soil remediation targets were set at 500 ppm for
TPH and 0.5 ppm for benzene. Although there are limited uses of the groundwater around the plant, allowable
contamination targets were set at 1 ppm for TPH and 0.07 ppm for benzene.
8. The situation for the land-based plants is somewhat less critical because they are underlain with a tight
clay layer that is thought to protect groundwater from contamination. Therefore, allowable contamination
targets were set higher for soil at 3500 ppm for TPH and 5 ppm for benzene- These levels were developed as a
result of research of similar standards (primarily from the US, but including one from Latin America).
9. The Bank found these levels (paras. 7 and 8 above) acceptable for this particular project, during the
preparation of the Bidding Documents for the clean-up works. Furthermore, the mission was informed that tihe
Department of the Environment (DoE) has indicated that these levels are now likely to be informally adopted
for use on other contaminated sites in Belize until a formal national standard is enacted.
Progress to Date
10. San Pedro. Clean-up of the San Pedro plant became the leaming ground for BEL through the efforts and
guidance of TriHydro. The initial investigation included collecting samples from 30 soil boreholes and testing
for TPH. VOCs, SVOCs, metals and PCBs. As a result, the pattem and scale of soil contamination was
mapped which allowed optimal groundwater assessment to follow. Groundwater samples provided
information on the direction and speed of underground flow, TPH, VOCs and SVOCs. No PCBs, heavy
metals and chlorinated solvents were detected in either soil or water samples. However, contaminants
associated with domestic wastewaters were found. This was followed by an in-depth look at possible sources
of contamination, which led to sumps, cable trenches, underground fuel lines, storage tanks and historic spills
and leaks.
11. Several areas were identified as being highly contaminated and roughly 300 m3 of soil containing some
8,200 kg of hydrocarbons were removed for treatment at the Biocell. The area was backfilled Nvth clean
material. However, one of the key elements of any treatment strategy is to assess the potential of natural
attenuation as a result of in-situ biological activity. For San Pedro, tests were carried out to determine levels
of gas such a C02, CH4, and dissolved oxygen to deternine if such biological activity was taking place. Test
results show that subsurface microbial activity is occurring because of the highly reduced nature of the
groundwater conditions, and the finding of relatively high concentrations of microorganisms. However, full
microbial activity may be below maximum potential because of low concentrations of some key nutrients (in
particular Phosphorous and Nitrogen) which could slow down the metabolization rate of the remaining
contamination. Therefore, further testing is still required to assess how quickly this site will meet the
allowable standard and whether further treatment of additional soil and groundwater is warranted. Quarterly



44
testing continues so that a curve of natural attenuation can be developed in order to predict when the site will
meet the standard. The data to develop such a relationship is expected to be available by mid-April, 2000, and
will be included in Ecoengineering's January - March 2000 progress report due on April 2000.
12. Biocell. Construction of the biocell has been completed. It is currently being used to treat contaminated
soil taken from San Pedro. Design of the cell is based on its use as bioreactor to treat hydrocarbon
contaminated soils aerobically in a completely sealed environment. Soil treatment capacity of the cell is
approximately 800 m3 per batch. Total soil to be treated from all plant sites is expected to be between 1200
and 1500 m3 depending on test samples still to be carried out at Belmopan and Ladyville. The Biocell is of
earthen construction with a (high density polyethylene) HDPE liner and leachate/stormwater collection
system. The biocell is located at the Ladyville plant and therefore all contaminated soils need to be
transported there. Operation of the cell will be monitored for performance with special consideration of
maintaining adequate levels of moisture, nutrients and oxygen through careful windrowing.
Work Still to be done
13. The momentum created as result of successful remediation carried out at San Pedro needs to be maintained
with the other plant clean-ups and spill prevention activities. The following schedule has been agreed among
BEL, Ecoengineering, and TryHydro:
Power Station Clean-up and Remediation                  Spill Prevention Works
Dangriga, Dec 6 - 16                                    Belmopan, Jan-Feb 2000
Belmopan, Jan 2000                                      Ladyville, Feb-Mar 2000
Ladyville, Jan-Feb 2000                                 Belize City, Mar 2000
Belize City, Feb-Mar 2000
The mission agrees with this schedule and the Bank will approve payment of invoices based on this schedule.
Issues and Actions
d) Timing and final outcome of the Belize City clean-up. The Belize City clean-up is scheduled for
Feb-Mar 2000. A major issue at the site is the adjacent small-polluted lagoon contaminated with
hydrocarbons and solid waste. Although a first impression may produce the perception that all the waste
comes entirely from BEL, the original 1996 study by Miller & Miller, subsequently confirmed by the
Ecoengineering 1998 report, conclude that other neighboring pollution and waste sources (residential
households and in particular a number of car-repair garages which undertake car-oil change service work
and generate a substantial amount of used car oil) dump material on the banks and into the lagoon. BEL
and Ecoengineering report that both the Municipality of Belize and the DOE acknowledge the existence
of other significant sources of pollution whose contamination will still be there after BEL completes
prevention works at the Diesel plant and cleans-up those parts of the lagoon adjacent to the plant site
boundaries. Also reportedly, the municipality plans to fill in the lagoon but must also deal with the other
waste generators who use the lagoon. The mission recommends that by January 31, 2000, BEL send to
the Banks, a copy of a communication confirming minutes of meetings with both the Municipality and the
DOE formalizing the current understandings as to the extent of BEL's clean-up commitments relating to
the Lagoon. It is important that such understanding spell out the timing and exact nature of the planned
works on the lagoon
e) Outcome of the Ladyville remediation work. Contamination at the Ladyville plant appears to be
widespread and includes a small, off-site lagoon. Much of the contamination at Ladyville is thought to be
surfacial because of the clay layer underlying the site. The early sampling data indicates a concentration
of 3,500 ppm of TPH in one of the soil samples. However, the groundwater data is less revealing because
of the configuration of the well casing and the point from which the well is drawing water. The mission
observed that large quantities of clean soil had recently been spread over surface areas that are already



45
identified as contaminated and contractually earmarked for remediation, possibly to enable more
comfortable inspection of all site areas during the recent due-diligence undertaken by prospective private
investors interested in purchasing GOB's shares in BEL The mission recommends that the Ladyville
clean-up receive special attention and monitoring.
f) BEL's Environmental Management Capabilities. BEL reported that they continue to train the staff
of their recently created environmental units in both its planning and operations departments, and are in
the process of drafting its Environmental Operations Manual (EOM). The mission recommends that
these units continue to receive maximum support from BEL's management and that the EOM include
standards and criteria to evaluate performance in environmental duties and that staff performance
evaluation in this area be tied directly to the corporate policy relating to salary increases and payment of
yearly bonuses.
gi Waste oil utilization by industrial users: historically, the food processing industry (mainly citrus
processors) have been taking the waste diesel oil from BEL's plants to mix it with the fuel they use for
their boilers. BEL has had to deal with several principal issues in this regard. Citrus processing is a
seasonal activity that operates about four months per year, forcing BEL to store the waste oil that is
produced year-round. BEL stores the used oil in 55 gallon drums, an operation which is prone to
spillages and leakages from rusty drums. Finally, no formal assessment has been made of the current and
expected waste oil flow balance (volumes produced by BEL, and taken up by the citrus industry) to
determine whether all the waste oil will be taken away from BEL or whether BEL will have to make
provisions for proper storage and eventual disposal of the oil by some other means. As part of the clean-
up program BEL has recently acquired a high efficiency oil/water separator to improve the oil purity of
the waste oil thereby making it more valuable for the food industry. Agreement: It was agreed that BEL
will request Ecoengineering to (i) visit and interview the Citrus processors to assess their current and
expected capacity to collect and burn the waste oil currently and expected to be produced by BEL; and (ii)
report on the conclusions of such assessment in Ecoengineering's progress report due in April 2000,
including a short list of options that may need to be evaluated and followed by BEL to store and get rid of
the waste oil should the citrus processors off-take capacity be determined to be insufficient. that BEL
enter into a formal understanding or preferably an agreement with industrial users to take this oil once its
exact water content can be guaranteed
h) The rate of natural attenuation: One of the working assumptions of the remediation efforts,
accepted by all parties, including the IBRD, is that natural attenuation will bring about the required end-
points in one to two years, and that only limited amounts of soil would have to be removed and treated in
the biocell. This assumption is expected to be confirmed during the last quarter of 2000 as sufficient data
becomes available from the quarterly results from the soil and water tests being carried out at San Pedro
and the other sites. The mission recommends that the quarterly tests be scheduled to enable
Ecoengineering to plot their results and report all inferences in its quarterly reports
Reporting Requirements
17. The mission understands that Ecoengineering will issue its third progress report during the third week of
December 1999 (its first and second reports were issued in March and July 1999). Team members from the
IBRD and CDB very much look forward to this report. The mission recommends that Ecoengineering's next
reports be issued during the second weeks of April, July, and October 2000, and include a full evaluation of
the tests to be carried out in January, March, June, and September 2000. It is felt that, based on the
implementation schedule agreed with TriHydro above, most of the prevention and environmental biocell
remediation works should have been implemented by the end of March 2000. And based on the results of the
soil and water tests and overall progress assessed in Ecoengineering's April 2000 report, the details of the next
steps will be determined at that time.
JJFritz/Jgorrio/Dec./8/99



46
ANNEX 3
Summary of Principal Comments Received from GOB, OES and BEL
to the Draft Project ICR
Para. 5 of the Executive Summary (ES): no reference should be made to the Barbados
regulatory framework, which is currently being modernized and the OES considers obsolete and
thus not a model to be followed.
Para. 6 of ES: a significant cause of the higher final project cost is the addition of BEL's new
administration offices building to the cost of the project, to make use of financing available from
CDB.
Para. 8 of ES: BEL clarified that (a) the original start up of the works for the 115 kV line was
May 1995, and not September 1997 which falls in the middle of the rainy season - this latter date
became the start up milestone by default because of the initial loan effectiveness delays; (b) the
9/97 date was not postponed until after the rainy and Christmas seasons (i.e. 1998) because of the
pressure to complete the project; and (c) during the rainy season there are sufficient high ground
areas in which it would have been perfectly possible to start works with little or no loss of
efficiency. In consequence, any delays were strictly due to a clear contractual default by the
contractor, although admittedly aided by the payment of a sizeable advance upon delivery of
materials and which should have been upon full mobilization and start up of the works instead.
Para. 8 of ES: Relating to the delay of the diesel plant prevention and clean-up component,
BEL underlined the following main contributing factors (a) the low level of technical expertise
of the first consultant selected to carry out the full EIA and the Design of Comprehensive
Mitigation, Prevention, and Remediation Programs for each of the plants; (b) the considerable
difficulties and delays caused by the lack of specificity provided .by the IBRD in its suggested
terms of reference (Annex 5 of SAR) for the environmental works, relating to the target levels of
decontamination that should be set as end points for the required soil and water remediation
works, where the Bank suggested that international standards be used by the consultant; and (c)
the IBRD-proposed TOR should have included as a deliverable, the preparation of bidding
documents, satisfactory to the EBRD, to enable prompt bidding for all the required works on
completion of the study.
Paras. 8 and 10 of Executive summary and 24, 25, 35 of the main text: The representatives
of the Secretary of Finance, OES, and BEL which were members of the Working Group
responsible for drafting pricing regulations took exception to their characterization as being
"initially weak" due to insufficient experience or training. They referred to the genesis of this
particular project component and pointed out that (a) while it became clear during its
implementation that it was a key sectoral and institutional component of the project, its
importance was, on the contrary, never identified or acknowledged during project preparation -
the SAR refers to it in one small paragraph (3.13) which reports it as an agreement reached
during negotiations, and that "TA from the proposed project will be used to assist the GOB in
this matter." The agreement became a dated covenant due on March 31, 1995. This was the
same date in which the results of a cost of service-tariff study, which was supposed to look into
the existing tariff setting mechanism to provide inputs to the tariff regulations study, were to be
delivered (SAR Annex 5.5, page58); (b) the SAR contains a comprehensive set of TORs for all
consulting services required under the project components, except for the tariff regulations
component; (c) there was no requirement stated either in the SAR or the Loan Agreement, for the



47
GOB to form a Working Group satisfactory to the Bank in charge of complying with the IBRD
covenant of drafting the regulations or being a counterpart to a consultant that would do so; (d)
when the March 31, 1995 deadline approached, there was no identified party within the GOB to
prepare terms of reference for contracting the required TA, which led to the irregular situation
where BEL, the regulated agency, by default was requested to prepare the terms of reference for
contracting the Consultant to prepare tariff regulations; (e) the US$100,000 budgeted for the task
was proven to be insufficient, and became a limiting factor for expanding the original scope of
the consultant contract which early on had been identified by the Working Group as inadequate
to provide the required assistance for preparing pricing regulations compatible with modern tariff
setting principles; and (e) given all the aforementioned.organizational and budget limitations, it
is accurate to conclude that this component was born weak, but not because the members of the
WG were weak. Finally, the members of the WG proposed that the initial delays of this
component would have been avoided if it: (a) would have been designed more carefully during
project preparation; (b) it would have been properly sized and budgeted; and (c) the formation of
a Working Group with a composition satisfactory to the GOB and the IBRD would have been an
explicit dated covenant.
Para 42 of the Main Text: Both BEL and the WG clarified that the first consultant for the
pricing regulations was not BEL's auditor, but that the consultant had been the financial advisor
to the GOB during the 1992 first sale of GOB's 30 percent share in BEL.



48
ANNEX 4
LEAST COST GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION EXPANSION STUDY
GE's Covering letter Including IBRD's comments to the Study
Louie J. Powell, PE                                             Power Systems Energy Consulting
Manager - Transmission & Distribution Consulting               (jeneral Electric International, Inc.
One RiverRoad, Building 2 - Room 623
Schenectady, New York 12345
5   518 385-2999, 8*235-2999
518 385-59 79, 8*235-5979
1    louie.powell(d4ps.ge.com
22 December 1999
Least Cost Generation and Transmission Planning Study
Mr. Derek Davis
Belize Electricity Limited
115 Barrack Road
Belize City
Dear Derek,
Enclosed in this package are six (6) copies of our final report on the Least Cost Generation and Transmission
Planning Study. I have also enclosed a revised set of presentation transparencies and a compact disc that
contains all of this information in electronic form.
Great strides have been made over the past decades to mature power generation technologies to the point where
energy can be produced at very attractive prices if advantage can be taken of economies of scale. One of the
inescapable conclusions in the study is that the total load in Belize is not likely to grow over the foreseeable
future to the point where it alone is sufficient to justify investment in large power generation plants. Hence, a
fundamental inference from this study is that if Belize is to remain self-sufficient in energy, diesel generation
will unfortunately continue to play a major role.
Hydroelectric power is a significant factor both now and in the scenarios that should be explored for the future.
We found that that the proposed Challilo dam and power house are very attractive if they are constructed by an
IPP and if the energy is sold to BEL under the terms of the current power purchase agreement with BECOL.
Unfortunately, expecting an IPP to bear this entire cost is probably an unachievable dream, but we did find that
this option continues to be attractive to BEL with BEL making a contribution to the capital cost of the project,
with that cost recoverable in the sale of energy to consumers.
However, the contract with CFE is the single most significant source of energy for BEL. Because it is very
significant in the total mix of energy, it is also the element that exposes BEL to the greatest risk. The fact that
CFE has an option to unilaterally cancel the contract, or at least demand renegotiation, in 2008 should be a
concem as you go through the next few years, especially considering that the off-peak rate embodied in that
contract is extremely favorable.
One of the unfortunate realities of long-term power system planning is that about the time the job is done, the
parameters change and it is necessary to start over. We have attempted to identify the least-cost plan based on
the information that was provided to us when we met with you and your team in late April, and we have



49
incorporated the additional information you provided over the intervening months. However, as recently as the
time of our review meeting in early October there were signs that some of the parameters were changing, and
this is certain to continue as you enter into negotiations with an IPP on the Challilo project. The identification
of a new majority owner of BEL will introduce additional changes, and should CFE demand renegotiation of
the power sale agreement as the 2008 date approaches, one can expect that they will insist on a higher off-peak
rate.
Yesterday I had an extended discussion with Mr. Jorge Gorrio at the World Bank about his comments on the
conclusions of this study. Some notes from that discussion are attached. Mr. Gorrio is interested in the notion
that an IPP (potentially BEL acting as an IPP) might take advantages of the economy of scale by constructing a
large gas-fired power plant in the Yucatan, adjacent to a gas pipeline, with the objective of selling energy
simultaneously to BEL and CFE. This is similar to the concept you mentioned in the final review meeting that
the owners of the Merida plant have offered to sell energy from their plant at reasonable rates. Both concepts
are interesting and potentially could be favorable to BEL, but they were not identified as options for
consideration in this study.
GE PSEC would be pleased to assist you with revisions of this study to account for these changes, or with
more focused investigations into specific new scenarios that arise from actual contract negotiations. That
additional work would be beyond the scope of the fixed-price contract under which this work was done, but we
are certainly prepared to offer either fixed-price or time-and-material extensions as you require.
Thank you for the opportunity to conduct this study and for your warm hospitality during our visits. We look
forward to working with you on another project in the near future.
Very truly yours,
U Powell
Cc    CM Veitch, K. Clark, RS Szczepanski, H. Elahi
PS. As this study was nearing completion, comments were received from Mr. Jorge Gorrio at the World Bank.
The timing of these comments unfortunately was too late to be incorporated directly into the body of the report.
But because the comments are very pertinent, it was decided to include both the comments and GE remarks,
noted in blue script, in this attachment.
----Original Message-----
From: Jgorrio(@,worldbank.org [mailto:Jgorrio(d.worldbank.org]
Sent: Thursday, October 21, 1999 4:46 PM
To: Derek Davis
Cc: lyoung(a,)btl.net; LCSFP IRIS I
Subject: Re: Belize - 2nd. Power Development Project - Comments to GE's
Prelim. Draft Study on Power Sector Least Cost Expansion Plan Effects on
Project ICR - Economics of 115KV Interconnection with Mexico.
Dear Mr. Davis .
Many thanks for faxing on October 15 the executive summary of the study (preliminary draft)
financed under the project. We confirm below comments already phoned to you on October 18 and
look forward to receiving the complete final draft.



50
Main overall comments
Need to evaluate impacts of most negative scenario. - The study flags that the Energy Purchase
contract from Mexico's CFE is most favorable at USc./3.00/Kwh for off-peak energy (vs. BEL's
Diesel/Hydro based av. energy cost of about USc./8.00/Kwh). It also flags that both parties CFE and
BEL have the right to unilaterally rescind the contract as early as 2008, and that the contract
expires in 2012. To underline that the contract rescission scenario should not be allowed to happen,
the GE study should include a simulation and evaluation of such most negative but probable scenario,
since it falls within the study projection period. Sensitivities of the above scenario at appropriate
intermediate prices should be provided (between US 3 and 8) since it is quite probable that CFE
might try to renegotiate the energy contract in 2008 to a higher off-peak energy price, -- (the avoided
off-peak cost in Mexico is likely to be around USc/4.50/Kwh from a typical 150MW combined cycle
GT fueled by natural gas).
GE: The report mentions that one of the significant concerns/facing BEL is the risk that ("FE
could either cancel the existing power sale agreement, or opt to renegotiate the terms of the
contract when the reopener cdate occurs in 2008. The cancellation scenario would obviously be
much wvoise since at the current rates, (FE energy is about 40 percent of the total throughout the
study p eri od As long as th}e (IFE price is below the diesel incremental cost, this percentage will
remain the same, but total costs will increase. The impact on generation costs could be
determined by multiplying the price differential by 40 percent.
2006 or 2008? [Mr. Davis] Please kindly confirm that unilateral rescission of BEL/CFE energy
purchase contract can take place in 2006 or 2008?. Section 2 (effectiveness-termination) of the
contract states that "unilateral rescission can take place any time after eight years form the date in
which the  15KV line entered into operation. Since we understand such start-up date was mid-
December 1998, then the first eight years will be over in mid-12/2006, and not in mid-12/2008.
G(E: The study was based on information provided by BEL that critical contract dates were 2008
and 2012.
New Hydro Options. The study concludes that the least cost option includes the construction of the
Chalillo Dam and power house, but only if (a) Chalillo is built by an IPP; and (b) the price of the
Chalillo energy sold by the IPP to BEL is not higher than that of the existing hydro-power-Mollejon
IPP contract. We find it unusual that the identified least cost option be dependent on what could be
perceived as a rather improbable hypothetical conditions. The study should assess the likelihood for
these two key conditions to materialize, and include in the summary the explicit cost of Chalillo's
energy based on expected average hydrology, using the investment costs estimated in its feasibility
study, and a overall economic opportunity cost of capital (for instance a discount rate of say 12
percent could be used, which is equivalent to a ROR of 18 percent on Equity, and 8 percent on Long
Term Debt, for a 40 percent equity capitalization of the project).
The least cost option seen in late 1999 looking forward is construction of the Challilo plant by an
IPP and sale of energy to BEL at the rates defined in the current contract with BECOL. Practically,
this means that BECOL would be the IPP since it is unlikely that a third-party IPP would find this
arrangement attractive. However, we also have doubts about whether this arrangement would be



51
appealing to BECOL. Hence, we addressed this in the final version of the report by stating that
"assuming the current energy rates continue, BEL could invest up to 40 percent of the capital cost
and still be better off than if they had not pursued any new hydro projects. Any combination of rates
plus investment that is less than or equivalent to this would result in lower total present worth costs
over the study period." We used the financial parameters provided to us by BEL, i.e. Fixed Charge
Rate (FCR) of 12 percent and cost of money of 8 percent. In order to result in such a low FCR, an 80
percent debt/20 percent equity ratio was used, and 1 percent was assumed as the annual costs for both
income taxes and property taxes/insurance.
The study also concludes that Chalillo would no longer be the least cost option should BEL build
Chalillo. Without further information provided to the reader, these conclusions raise questions such
as: either the assumed IPPs' cost of capital is considerably cheaper than BEL's or BEL's expected
construction and O&M costs are substantially higher than the IPPs' etc. The study should make clear
the basis for assuming that the project's economic return may be achieved by an IPP but not by BEL.
GE: The entire focus of this planning study was to determine the least cost options for BEL.
Naturally, any actions undertaken by an IPP would have to satisfy their business screens.
Recommended Capacity Mix.-The above two conclusions of the report do not support the
"Recommended Capacity Mix" shown in the power point presentation ofthe study (pg. 10 graph)
which includes the new hydro dam and power house option. Because of the uncertainties posed by
the rescission/renewal dates of the CFE contract, and by the odds of finding an [PP to provide new
hydro-energy at predetermined prices, we understand the difficulties of recommending a single least
cost capacity mix program. Under these circumstances, perhaps the study ought to make a set of
contingent least cost recommendations along the following lines, underlining the pre-requisites of
each one together with the consultants' best educated estimate of their individual odds. In order of
their higher probability of occurrence, the likely scenarios appear to be:
(a) without Chalillo but with the CFE contract renewed through 2012
(i) at existing prices; and
(ii) at renegotiated intermediate prices
(b) same as (a) with Chalillo Dam and Power House -- underlining the assumptions that make
Chalillo attractive as well as the main economic and environmental pros and cons already, or
being identified.
(c) without Chalillo and with rescission of CFE
The av. unit production costs (presumably fuel + O&M) of generation are presented with the
indication that " The cost of capital makes total energy costs of generation higher" (graph on pg. 12
of presentation). For merit order dispatch reasons we understand that production costs (as proxy for
short run marginal costs- SRMC) are relevant. However, investment decisions require that they be
made on merit order based on long run marginal costs (LRMC) which include capital costs. To
understand the final recommendations of the report, the graphs showing the total av. unit cost of Gn
including capital costs of the various options should also be presented.
GE: These concerns have been addressed in the final report.
The graphs showing the projected energy supply mix should show at least five years of the real
historic supply mix, to reassure the reader that there are no unjustified abrupt transitional changes or



52
to underline that any such changes will be brought about by completing ongoing investment
programs.
GE: The graph on page 26 of the final report shows BEL 's projected Energy Balance starting
from Fiscal Year 1994/95.
Quantum Leap? The current hydro-energy component of the supply mix is projected at an average
of 1 OOGWh/year. Our records of BEL's historic yearly reports show that the average availability of
Hydro energy has been below 8OGWh/yr. during the last five years. What is the basis for the
substantially higher projected average? The study should assess the historic data and make an explicit
realistic projection assumption in the report.
GE: The higher projected average was provided by BEL, which was the 15-year average of the
latest updatedforecast by AGRA (I Power as of June 1999.
No mention is made as to the assumptions and sensitivities relating to the projected fuel prices.
GE: Fuel prices are based on BEL's actualfuelpurchase records from PEMEX  The fuelprice
inflation rate is based upon April 1999 McGraw-Hill Data Resources Inc. fDRI) projections for
the world price of oil.
Other comments
We recommend that the authors add a brief Glossary Annex where the various key terms and
relationships are clearly defined. This will improve the overall consistency in the report's
terminology, i.e. in some paragraphs "overall energy cost" is used where it appears that what they
mean is "total
av. cost of generation" and even then it is not clear if they mean production costs or total generation
costs including capital costs.
GE: We have taken pains to maintain consistency of usage in the final report, and to make sure
that terminology not in common usage in power system engineering and planning are defined in
context. Obviously, at some point it is the responsibility of the reader to be prepared with the
basic understanding of the issues in order to read and comprehend a report dealing with
planning issues on power systems.
The graph (pg. 8 of executive presentation) showing the av. unit cost of the various generation
technology options indicates a 7.25 UScents/Kwh for BEL's LS-Diesel, but it is referred as
8.5UScents in the text (which is correct?)
GE: Both are correct. The chart in the beginning of the presentation shows the First-Year (osts
of all the technologies, which means that the effects of inflation (such as fuel O&M and capital
cost escalation) have not been included The later chart shows the levelized costs of the



53
generation technologies, which does include the effect of inflation, and therefore is higher than
the numbers in the earlier chart.
The above mentioned graph should also show the av. cost for CC Gas turbines running on natural
gas at capacities where economies of scale become negligible. This should provide BEL with target
parameters to be attained including outside Belize.
GE: The study was focused on issues within Belize. Mr. Gorrio is basing his comments on the
notion that an IPP, potentially BEL acting as an IPP, might construct a large-scale power plant
in Southern Mexico for the purpose of selling energy simultaneously to BEL and CFE. This
concept is beyond the scope of this study, but it is certainly something that should be considered
when the market conditions are more favorable in Mexico. Likewise, the offer by the owners of
the Merida plant to sell a portion of their capacity on afirm basis, and also energy as available
with that energy wheeled over the CFE transmission lines to the BEL terminal at Xul Ha should
receive additional consideration.
Graph of pg. 10. This graph shows the "preferred capacity mix" their linked plant commissioning
schedule is indicated at the foot of the graph as "Preferred Commissioning Schedule". We
recommend removing the adjective "Preferred" since the schedule underpins the recommended
capacity mix of the particular scenario.
GE: "Preferred" may be a strong term - the revised version of the presentation included with the
final report uses "Recommended".
Best regards
Jorge Gorrio, Task Manager
World Bank, LCSFP-Energy Unit.



54



55
APPENDIX B - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
BELIZE
Second Power Development Project (Loan 3776 - BEL)
Project Objectives and Description
1 The main Project objectives were to:
a) Integrate BEL's major load centers through the construction of a 115 kV grid
system and interconnect to the Mexican power system, thereby providing the
necessary capacity and associated energy at an economic cost to allow BEL to meet
the Belize power system requirements;
b) Improve power quality, i.e. frequency and voltage control and reliability through
the interconnection to CFE' s extended and stable power grid;
c) Provide training and technical assistance to BEL as required;
d) Provide for the restructuring of the power sector in Belize, putting in place clear
and transparent mechanisms for its development;
2. These objectives addressed relevant sector needs
a) Taking into account that BEL was at the stage whereby substantial investment
would have had to be made to purchase additional generating capacity to meet the
power system requirements.
b) Due to the small size of BEL' s power system, it was difficult to achieve the levels
stability and reliability normally acceptable in the industry.
c) The Government of Belize had publicly expressed its intent to sell most if not all
of its financial holdings in BEL.
3. Total project cost, including financing charges amounted to some US$ 40.8 million,
of which US$ 30.0 million was debt financed by the IBRD, CDB and EIB and Bacomext
loans. Final financing arrangements resulted in the project being financed as follows:
28.2 percent IBRD, 32 percent CDB, 10.7 percent EIB, 3.1 percent Bancomext and 26
percent BEL
Achievement of Objectives
4. The first objective was met by the construction of the transmission lines sub-
transmission lines substations dispatch center and installation of the new SCADA and
communication system. This new construction, completed the 115 kV transmission grid
and also provided links to the grid for all of the major load centers within the country of
Belize. BEL's system was interconnected to the Mexican system at 115 kV at the XUIL-



56
HA substation, located 6 KM within Mexico. The system was fully commissioned in
December 1998 with BEL being able to purchase up to 16 MW of power and associated
energy from CFE of Mexico at economic prices based on a power purchase agreement
between BEL and CFE signed in 1995.
5. Power System Operations improved substantially, with the use of the new SCADA
and Communication system in place. Frequency stabilization has now become a non-
issue for BEL, due to the interconnection with Mexico's large grid system. Volt/VAR
control can now also be easily done using the new system. BEL has also developed load
dispatching philosophies and procedures, which take into consideration the run-of river
nature of the Mollejon hydro plant and also the various demand and energy pricing
available from Mexico, with the objective of minimizing cost.
6. Training and technical assistance provided under the project included training in
substation maintenance and system operations, consulting services to update BEL's
Generation and Transmission least cost plan, a tariff review and a re-organizational and
remuneration review.
7. Sector restructuring was achieved through the implementation of a regulatory study
by GOB which provided for transparent tariff setting mechanisms and in general
improved the mechanisms for regulation of the electric power and energy sector within
the country of Belize.
8. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Implementation.
9. The final total project cost was US$ 40.8 million, an overrun of 23 percent equivalent
to US$ 7.7 million when compared to the World Bank SAR estimate of US$ 33 million.
SAR projections for project implementation was from April 1994 to June 1997, with
construction from April 1995 to June 1997, however, actual implementation occurred
from August 1994 to June 1999, with construction from January 1997 to June 1999
except for the environmental component which is scheduled to be completed by June
2000. It should be noted, however, that all the major physical project components except
for the implementation of the environmental components were completed, commissioned
and put in service by December 1998.
10. The overruns were due to the following factors: i) The addition after the SAR was
completed of financing for a new MIS System for BEL at a cost of US$ 0.9 million, this
additional financing was provided by the EIB; ii) The addition of the office complex
building to the project at a cost of US$ 1.2 million; iii) Increased actual costs above that
estimated for the 115 kV Transmission line (25 percent), the submarine cable (10
percent) and the SCADA and Communications system (34 percent). The increases have
to be attributed to price and inflationary increases, as the project scope was not changed
from that anticipated during appraisal. The size of the contracts may have also been a
factor in that contractor overheads were duplicated, such duplication due to the need for
each of the contractors having to provide project management and local support which
could easily have been done by one group if the contracts were joined, however, this was
unavoidable due to the source of financing for the various project components.



57
1 1. Implementation delays which were suffered during the period from loan signing to
the start of construction, were mainly due to the fact that the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) who were initially identified as a cofinancier of the
project advised that they were not interested in financing the project under the terms
identified. In-effect BEL was left with a shortage of required financing for the project
and due to this non of the loans of the other financiers could become effective. After
consultation with the GOB and BEL the CDB agreed to provide the additional financing
required for the project. This financing issue caused a 1 1/4 year delay in project
implementation. In addition the engineering studies being conducted by foreign
consultants was also delayed by approximately 6 months. In-effect therefore the project
suffered a delay of 1 3/4 years during the period from loan signing to the start of
construction. Project construction times were in all cases either shorter or similar to that
estimated in the SAR.
12. Implementation: project components were implemented as follows:
a) POW2/1 - Supply of materials and construction of 115 kV Transmission Line
from Belize City to the Belize/Mexican border. Financier - World Bank, Contractor
- SOINCO of Argentina.
b) POW2/2 - Supply of materials for the 34.5 kV overhead lines under the project.
Financier - CDB, Supplier - BEXCAN of Canada
c) POW2/3 - Construction of 34.5 kV overhead lines for the project. Financier -
BEL, Contractor - BEL
d) POW2/4 - Supply of Materials except for Power Transformers and Construction
of 115/34.5/22 kV Substations. Financier- CDB, Contractor-Markham Electric of
Canada.
e) POW2/5 - Supply of 115/34.5/22 kV Power Transformers. Financier - CDB,
Contractor - Siemens of Columbia
Q POW2/6 - Manufacture, supply and Installation of 34.5 Submarine Cable.
Financier - CDB, Contractor - Alcatel Cable of France.
g) POW2/7 - Supply of materials and construction of Dispatch center building.
Financier - BEL, Contractor - BEL
h) POW2/8 - Supply of material and equipment and installation for SCADA system.
Financier - EIB, Contractor - Advanced Control Systems of USA.
i) POW2/9 - Supply of material and equipment and installation for Communication
system. Financier - EIB, Contractor - IVO Power International Limited of Finland
j) POW2/l0 - Supply of specialized vehicles and equipment. Financier - World
Bank, Contractor - Altec of USA.



58
k) POW2/11 - Environmental Mitigation and Spill Prevention at BEL's existing
diesel generating sites. Financier - World Bank, CDB and BEL, Contractor(s) -
Trihydro of USA local contractors from Belize.
I) POW2/12 - Supply of materials and construction of 115 kV lines and substation
extension from XUL-HA substation in Mexico to the Belize/Mexican border.
Financier - Bancomext of Mexico, Contractor - CFE of Mexico
m) POW2/13 - Training and Technical Assistance for BEL including consulting
services. Financier - World Bank.
n) POW2/14 - Supply and Installation of a New Management Information System
(MIS) System for BEL.. Financier - EIB, Contractor - Harris Computer Systems of
Antigua.
13. Provision of Engineering and Engineering supervision Consulting Services -
Financier - World Bank
14. Electricity demand: During the period of Project implementation, the system peak
demand increased from 29.4 MW in FY 1995 to 34 MW in FY 1999, an increase of 15.6
percent or 3.00 percent per year, System net generation requirements during the same
period increased from 154.6 to 212 Gwhs, an increase of 37.1 percent or 6.5 percent per
year. This would suggest that the overall system load factor improved significantly
which to some extent was true, however, some of it was due to the connection of the
larger load centers to the grid, thereby eliminating the non-coincident demand error.
Losses were maintained at an average of 10 percent during the period. Over the past 3
years losses increased to an average of 11.5 percent as was expected due to the addition
of the 115 kV transmission lines and associated substations from the Mollejon Hydro
Plant to Mexico. SAR estimates for peak demand and net generation for the same period
from FY 1994 to FY 1999 are similar to that achieved. Actual Energy sales increased
from 138.7 to 186.7 Gwhs, a 34.6 percent increase or 6.13 percent per year, again similar
to that assumed under the SAR. Assumptions included in the SAR with respect to the
sources of generation, were however not achieved. Hydro generation in FY 1996 was
only 45 Gwhs as compared to 98.68 Gwhs in the SAR. The performance of the Hydro
Plant was in general much below that assumed in the SAR and due to the Take-or-Pay
condition included in the power purchase contract between BEL and the developers, this
resulted in BEL having to find additional generation to meet its needs without any
corresponding reductions in payments to the Hydro project developers. With respect to
power purchases from Mexico, the SAR assumes that the 115 kV line would be available
in FY 1997, while it actually became available in late FY 1999. In-effect the technical
performance of the utility during the period of project implementation was similar to that
projected in the SAR, except for the assumptions with respect to the sources of
generation, BEL had to use diesel generating sources to produce much more energy than
that estimated in the SAR. This factor has had an adverse impact on BEL's financial
performance over the period, when compared to that included in the SAR, as energy costs
were higher than estimated due to the use of additional diesel generation to offset the
projected energy shortfalls from the Hydro Plant and Mexico



59
15. Financial Indicators: Operating revenues increased from $62.7mn in 1997 to
$70.5mn in 1999, representing an increase of 12.44 percent. Of the $7.8mn increase over
the three-year period, sale of electricity accounts for $6.9mn, while other operating
revenues comprising installation fees, pole rentals and other charges made up the
remaining $0.9mn. Revenues from sale of electricity realized growth of 3.5 percent and
7.75 percent during fiscal 1998 and 1999 respectively. The lower net income
performance in 1998 is the result of a reduction of 4.15 percent in the average tariff
Other (non-operating) income increased from $2.9mn in 1997 to $3.Omn in 1999. Other
income during fiscal 1999 comprised interest income and extraordinary income from
foreign exchange and insurance settlements.
The Company's profitability in FY 1999 ($8.0Smn) showed a marked improvement over
the previous two years (FY 1998-$3.20 mn and FY 1997-$3.17mn) and this is the result
of benefits derived from the Power 2 Project which has allowed for optimization of
economic dispatch of power from the Hydro Plant, Mexico and the Company's own
diesel generation. Also, the Company's own diesel generation was impacted favorably
by lower average fuel and oil prices during the year.
Over the same period (1997 to 1999) operating expenses have increased by $2.32mn or
by 3.96 percent comprised as follows:
1999          1998        1997
('000)        ('000)      ('000)
Operations
Power Purchase                                     22.685        20,.639     19,008
Diesel Generation                                  12,593         14,980     14,438
Transmnission & Distribution                        1,650          1,842      1,609
Maintenance
Diesel Generation                                   3,772          5,556      5,409
Transmission & Distribution                         2,464          2,862      2,556
General and Administrative                            10,807         9,614       9,130
Depreciation and Amortization                         6,177          6,079       5,942
Corporate Taxes                                         800            335        534
60,948        61.907      58626
Project Sustainability
16. The projected returns and benefits as projected for the project should easily be
achieved. With respect to the aspect of increased reliability of the power system, this has



60
been most evident, in that the interconnection to the CFE grid has enabled BEL's power
system to withstand most small disturbances without failure, thereby reducing
substantially outages due to instability of the power system. BEL has also been able to
purchase power and associated energy from CFE Mexico under most economic terms,
such terms are equivalent or better than that assumed in the various analysis done in the
SAR, in-effect it is presently estimated that the EIRR calculated in the SAR will be
exceeded. BEL's power purchase contract with Mexico terminates in 2012, however,
included in the contract are mechanisms for its renewal. It is BEL's opinion also based
on analysis of CFE's power system expansion plans, that they will be able to supply BEL
with the contracted power and energy throughout the period on the power purchase
contract.
Bank Performance
18. Bank performance and supervision during project preparation and implementation
was deemed to be highly satisfactory. During project implementation the Bank
conducted 5 missions, whereby project progress was reviewed in detail, and assistance
and advice given by the task manager and bank consultants to BEL in areas where
necessary or required. The bank SAR was well prepared, identifying areas where BEL
needed improvement, and where particular attention should be given during project
implementation.
19. Supervision and assistance given by the staff of the other project cofinanciers was
also deemed to be satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
20. Project management was done by BEL using a team of its engineers who during
project implementation were dedicated to that task. These engineers have now been
reassigned tasks within the utility in the areas of system operations and planning. A team
of foreign consultants were used to assist with engineering supervision during project
implementation.
21. The time and cost overruns as discussed in paragraph 13 above were beyond the
control of the implementation team, in-effect the performance of the team when accessed
based on the progress made during the construction phase of the project can be
considered satisfactory. Project construction commenced in January 1997 and was for
the most part completed in December 1998 when the transmission lines, substations,
submarine cable and the SCADA and Communication system was commissioned and put
in service. Delays were encountered in the implementation of the environmental
component of the project, were due to the lack of the availability of de-contamination
standards to be used in the preparation of the tender documents, also projected target
dates were found to be unrealistic due to the quantity of investigative works which
needed to be done to define the scope of the physical works. In addition it would have
been impossible to do works on the specified contaminated sites without the connection
to Mexico complete, as some of the works involve the shut down of the power stations,
this would obviously not have been practical without an alternate source of supply. The
works being done by BEL in this regard is a first for the country of Belize.



61
Consultants' Performance
22. Foreign Consultants were used to conduct the engineering studies required and for the
preparation and evaluation of the project tenders. A team of consultants were also used
to assist BEL with engineering supervision during the construction phase of the project.
In all cases the performance of the consultants can be deemed as satisfactory. A list of
consultants used in connection with the project engineering and supervision and their
assigned tasks are listed in the table below.
Consultant                      Assigned Tasks                  Performance
CI Power Monenco of        Project Engineerinig/Assistance with       Satisfactory
Canada                     Engineering supervision POW2/6, POW2/8
and PO(W2/9
NEI Enginueering of USA    Assistance with Engin'eerinlg supervision  Satisfactory
P(I)W2/4 and P()W2/5
SETA Corporacion of Peru   Assistance with Engineering supervision    Satisfactory
P()W2/1, POW2/2 and P()W2/3
Eco Engineering            Project Environmental Monitoring and       Satisfactory
Assistance in supervision P()E2/11
Liberty Consultants of the    Re-()rganization/Re-engigueering study and  Satisfactory
USA                        initial implementation
AV(O) International of USA    Substation Maintetnatice Training       Satisfactory
PSTC of the USA            Remuneration Study and Training to HR      Satisfactory
Personnel
GE International of the USA  Least Cost Transmission and Generation   Satisfactory
Expansioni Plan
IV() Power Limited of      SCADA System and Operational System        Satisfactory
Finlanid                  Training, C-ommunication System Supplier and
Training
Power Technologies         Power System Simulator For Engineering     Satisfactory
Incorporated of the USA
Hagler Bailly Incorporated    Tariff Study and Training               Satisfactory
Advatnced Control Systems    SCADA System Supplier and Traitning      Satisfactory
of the USA
Harris Computer Systems of  MIS System and Traiiung, Modules supplied -   Satisfactory
Antigua                    GL, Fixed Assets, Billing, Inventory, Calls and
Requests
Assessment of Outcome
23. The overall outcome of the project is deemed to be highly satisfactory.



62
Future Operation
24. BEL's projections for future operations are most optimistic, given that the project is
completed and therefore that BEL has access to the relatively cheap source energy from
Mexico. Projected energy sales growth average 8.4 percent over the next 5 years (FY 2000
to 2004), with return on assets in operation excluding contributed capital, before tax and
dividends averag2ng 10 percent over the next 5 years. This projection also includes rate
reductions ()ver the penrod of approximately 15 percent.
25. BEL has commenced feasibility studies to fully analyze the possibility of constructing a
storage dcamand tow-of dam hydro plant on the Macal river at the Challilo site, pre-
feasibility analysis indicate that the dam would provide substantial economic benefits with
marginal environmental impacts (flooded area being only 8.2 sq KM~. It is estimated that
energy generation from the Mollejon Plant would be increased from its present level to
approximately 136 (,whs per annum, and combined with the tow-of-dam plant total energy
from the scheme could be as much as 165 C;whs. The pre-feasibility analysis also indicate
that firm generation capacity from the scheme would also increase to approximately 16 MW,
which would contribute to BEL's need for additional generation to meet future growth
demands.
26. BEL has also engaged the services of consultants GE International of the USA under
the project to update its least cost generation and transmission plan for the period from FY
1999 to FY2012. This study will analyze all generation options available to BEL and will
represent BEL strategy to deal with its future generation needs.
Key Lessons Learned
27. The main lessons learned from the Power Project are as follows:
  The strategy as adopted by BEL in the implementation of the project, that of using local
engineers to do the project management, with consultants as advisors, was probably the
most important factor which resulted in successful project implementation. This
structure allowed for a project management team which was fully supported by BEL's
executive management and BEL's organization as a whole, while at the same time
allowing for access to specialized information and advise where necessary.
*  Multiple financiers of such a project, can result in additional costs and complexity
specifically in procurement, and should be avoided if possible.
*  During project preparation it is critical that financing limits be carefully considered so as
to include sufficient contingencies for inflation and other unpredictable occurrences,
especially in cases where the projected project internal rate of return is well above the
cost of capital. Alternatively a less complicated process for the increase of such limits
should be considered.
*  It is critical that the payment terms included in contracts be analyzed carefully, to ensure
that they provide the optimum benefits to both the client and contractor, such should be
based on clear deliverables, with the objective that the client can take quick and decisive
action when faced with acts of default by contractors. Such would give more assurance
of the timely implementation by contractors.



63
APPENDIX C - PROPOSED OPERATIONAL PLAN
BELIZE
Second Power Development Project (Loan 3776 - BEL)
Objectives to sustain     Achievements and key issues in     Recommended actions
sustainability
Physical Objectives
* The 115kV line is operating.    * BEL to complete the
Interconnection of load            (There remain some minor       remaining works scheduled
centers                            fine-tuning works to be        for December 1999.
* Interconnection with Mexico      done).                     * BEL to execute maintenance
* Dispatch Center              * Ensure timely renewal of PPA   * BEL to execute minimum cost
implementation                 energy contract with Mexico    dispatch
* Management Information       * Submarine cable in operation.   * BEL to execute Least Cost
System implementation      * Dispatch center, SCADA and       investment Program based on
MIS systems are operating.     maximum use of
interconnection with
__________________________    __________________________        neighboring    countries.
Electricity Sector Policy
Objectives                     * the new Electricity Act was  * Ensure autonomous and
* Increase private sector          enacted on August 3, 1999      effective sector regulation
participation              * Incorporation of private capital  * GOB to provide adequate
* Improve regulatory framework     in BEL                         support to enable effective
* Improve resource allocation  * Increase BEL's privatization     operation of the PUC
through regulation             from 30 percent to over 50     including TA for preparing
.                                  percent of Equity              by-laws soonest;
* Transfer benefits of
interconnection to consumers
Environmental Objectives
* Institutionalize environmental   * All lines' paths were designed   * Complete as scheduled
management in BEL              and implemented with           prevention works (March
* Optimize submarine cable and     meticulous compliance to       2000); clean-up of surface
Tn lines' path with            detailed EIA studies           soils (June 2000); and
minimum environmental      * By loan closure BEL's            cleanup of in situ soils and
impact.                        prevention and clean-up        underground water in San
* Prevent further pollution and    works of its Diesel Plants     Pedro(December 2000).
clean-up spills at Diesel      were on-going..             * Complete Environmental
Plants                     *                                  Operations Manual and adopt
it



64



65
APPENDIX D - ESTIMATION OF THE EX-POST ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
BELIZE
Second Power Development Project (Loan 3776 - BEL)
1. Staff Appraisal Report. The project economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was
estimated in the SAR to be 21.7 percent, with a net present value (NPV) of Bz$45.7
million. The methodology followed for estimating costs and benefits of the project
consisted of:
a) An estimation of the incremental sales which the project would facilitate, i.e. the
demand which the power system would be unable to supply without the project; and
b) An estimation of the cost savings, which the project would facilitate by
substituting high cost diesel production with low cost imports from Mexico.
2. Ex-post evaluation. The Mexican contract specifies prices that are roughly
US$0.20/kWh during peak hours (3 hours per day from 1800h to 2100h), and
US$0.025/kWh during off-peak hours. The least cost dispatch strategy consists of (a)
reducing diesel generation as much as possible during off-peak hours and (b) supplying
the peak load with hydro plant generation and diesel generation and reducing supplies
from Mexico as much as possible. This short- and medium-term strategy can be
extrapolated to future years by observing that new peak loads can be economically
supplied with alternative generation (e.g., diesel units or combustion turbines) at less than
US$0.20/kWh; consequently, in an optimum development, at the specified peak price
BEL would always have enough capacity to cover its peak and off peak demand. As a
result, demand will be supplied even without the project and the incremental sales of the
project are zero.
3. Project benefits consist therefore of cost savings allowed by the project during off-
peak hours. These can be estimated as the cost of incremental generation from existing
diesel units or future gas turbines when running during off-peak hours if the project were
not available. The running cost of these units is on the order of 5-6 US cents per kWh.
The imports from Mexico are on the order of 300MWh per day (1999), i.e. about
1 IOGWh per year in the short term; the project therefore saves around US$5.5 to US$6.6
million per year. These savings will increase with increases in line loading, until the
transmission reaches its maximum transfer capability; estimated at around 50MW.
4. An important component of project benefits consists of increased service reliability.
With only a few months of operating experience, a precise quantitative estimation of
reductions in curtailed energy is not possible. A value of I percent of energy demand
was taken as the reduction in curtailment. The value of these additional supplies was
taken to be US$0.30/kWh. Both of these estimates are conservative, considering that the
reliability of most small isolated systems increases by orders of magnitude once
interconnection is achieved, and that the cost of unexpected load losses is high due to
their disruptive short term effects.



66
5. The results of the ex-post EIRR are shown in Table 9. The resulting EIRR is 18.4
percent which compares well with the SAR estimate. An additional US$2M investment
was introduced in the calculation to take into account future substation extensions when
transfers increase.
6. Alternative scenarios. The estimated EIRR can be qualified as optimistic:
It assumes that initial contract benefits do not decrease in future years;
It assumes that the line can reach its maximum potential which implies that a new
contract will be negotiated with CFE under similar conditions to the existing one.
7. These assumptions are not entirely unreasonable, but it is likely that contract
conditions could change, particularly regarding the off-peak rate, thereby lowering the
substitution benefits. In order to take into account other possibilities, the following
scenarios were postulated:
3  A worst case, low probability, scenario: the contract runs for only 8 years and is not
renewed; all benefits stop after 2006 and the EIRR would only be around 6 percent.
*  Two scenarios in which the contract is renegotiated at a price mid-way between
BEL's running cost of 5-6US/kWh and CFE's current off-peak rate of 2.5US/kWh
(which would effectively allow CFE to capture 50 percent of BEL's savings); this
would yield a price of around 4US/kWh; in the first scenario, this price adjustment
takes place when the current contract has run its course, i.e. until December, 2012,
and yields an EIRR of 17.4 percent; the second scenario assumes that the adjustment
is requested by CFE as early as possible, i.e. starting January, 2007, which yields an
EIRR of 15.6 percent.
8. Finally, if the contract continues to be valid through 2009, the EIRR would reach 12
percent even if the line were to cease operations. Together with the foregoing estimates,
indications are that, barring catastrophic events, the line will prove to be a rewarding
investment. Assuming that negotiations break-down so that the line ceases to operate
after December 2008, the EIRR would only reach 10 percent.



67
Maria Antonieta Gonzalez
L:\icr-belizel 2-22.doc
12/22/99 12:53 PM






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30397
89.                                          0. .                        88'
oChetuma       -      MEXICO
.+a$CheoChtumnol
P   Che Elena-.
Louisyklle:                         , irt
San    ~     ~    ~    riic                nj
SnV,ctar0<   .    C'  R(OZAL      -: c;h 
Dougla .. e,- e@naaorges                         I     
Son  /      ,/STRICT  o
M  E X  I C O              San Lor a                                ,,, Etev oren
Yo Crwalek0.      angeWaIk
San      r                         =                   Ambergris
-18-   / - \           ~~~~~~~~August  AgLtpnOW       >      X       , _                             Cay                                            1
-18'                               ~~~~~~~~~~Lazaro,re.  __                                        a
j Neustadg -aolli g                r.. -'    N3aSkanl Pedro                              B ELI Z E
OSan Flipe    ~    MaskallI0
C) S.anL Filipe'>L               man9Chicago                                   SECOND  POWER
_. OIgRAN E  WALK        ,      0 v   . Womon   9Santana
Water an ,,                       ' ,C owed\  .o-dDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Di RIWCT                                     ockstone Pond                 BELIZE ELECTRICITY LIMITED (BEL)
Buri   and Hill
X   4        ~~~~Hill Ban,O  B4             urrell ISn   ii   
Hill               ~~~~~~~~~BoomL -La~
Ranch;      -           - 'Q
1.oS'        Doloreo -     Bermudia8
iSierra De  guae Ldand inl                            BelizeCity
<                  S~~~~~an Jose                 ELIes
LU- i                                      -          . S)o ckv'l -                                                    COMPLETED UNDER THE PROJECT.
s emacrar1a-lSTR1CT               .                         Turnefe                115 kV LUNE
<                        k  Rring                        chyr                                     slands                34.5 kV SUBMARINE LINE
->  |  S4 ';-   34.5 kV LINE
(.5  Laok~~~ssst,-.  .' ~~BelMO 'a                 \       ,                                            0      SUBSTATIONS
|    (  Geargeville  .    g   )    . -- - \\ .                                          ---         34.5 kV LINE
Benque Viejo; )    Olt Sin  Bgracio    Canvesh -                                                                         115 kV LINE
del Carien)              th                                                                                             MOLLEJON HYDROPLANT,
.    Middlesex         \                                             UNDER CONSTRUCTION
-  \ \       ~~~~CAYO                    r-Middlesex        \
-17                                               1      O)  .Ir QAlt o- oPrJ'n.-aXOtarawi   .                   E     SUBSTATIONS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
- DSRC    STANN      .                aVsta                            DIESEL POWER STATIONS
DISTRICT                                  D~~~~~-L.ongriga                         MAIN ROADS
OTHER ROADS
!l - o   M       urnon cow   BInk                         | *                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
CREEK 9Kecdal
BLocust anko  .- -r                                               ( )   DISTRICT CAPITALS
!   9   R/ncho GrInde    OCentral Bdnk                       |               o    TOWNS AND VILLAGES
Ran co Grande        entralank    Riersde                                           DISTRICTE OUNALBOUNDARIES
j              --    -   j     Lagarto Ban                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
j   SoaJmmn Ca                 -         "O CSei eBight Village
I ,.- -~~~~ ,r  .Camp   Medina              0'~~~~~~Placeetioi
Banrk        Mv --Big Creek
Palmar o        0         Melins Banks_~-lndependence
Camp                          ' 
!;TOLED6          DISTRICT                          r --  --   - --                                     Area of map
-.  oCasemero  lma                                                                         r --.
| San Antonio   -     Big Fall       __c                                                          M C ,i r             -mn
10     ~__N                                                                                             EZE'
--  I -   5                    Sopodilla                                    GUATEMALA .
Cays.                                                <HONDURASr --
*           ~~~~~Rice Statioin0-
* Punta Gorda                                                                     EL SALVADOR' -
NICARAGUA
16'  .,,                                                                                           16-
Gulf of
Hondro
COSTA RICA a.
GUATEMALA                                                                                 -PANAMA
89                                      '                                                            ,8
NOVEMBER 1999



