Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 3776 BEL 
Project Agreement
(Second Power Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BELIZE ELECTRICITY LIMITED
Dated August 8, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3776 BEL
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 8, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BELIZE ELECTRICITY LIMITED (BEL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Belize (the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million five hundred thousand 
dollars ($11,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that BEL agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and BEL, the proceeds of the loan allocated for Parts A through G of the Project under 
the Loan Agreement will be relent to BEL on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS BEL, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BEL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A through G of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative,  financial, engineering and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for such Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BEL shall carry out Parts A through G of 
the Project in accordance with: (i) the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and (ii) the Project performance indicators set forth in the Annex 
to a letter agreement of even date herewith between BEL and the Bank.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. BEL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. BEL shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BEL shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) BEL shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of Parts A through G of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
(b)
BEL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A through G of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by BEL of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BEL
Section 3.01. BEL shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers and without limitation to the provisions of this Section, maintain a 
Project implementation unit with an organizational structure satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.02. BEL shall at all times operate and maintain its plants and 
transmission lines and substations, machinery, equipment and other property, and from 
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. BEL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BEL shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
including separate accounts to reflect all resources and expenditures in connection 
with Parts A through G of the Project.
(b)
BEL shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BEL shall earn, for 
each of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year ending on March 31, 1995, an annual 
return of not less than 7% of the average current net value of BEL's fixed assets in 
operation.
(b)
Before January 1 in each of its Fiscal Years, BEL shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by BEL and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that BEL would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for BEL's Fiscal Years covered by such review, BEL shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing BEL's net 
operating income for the Fiscal Year in question by one half of 
the sum of the current net value of BEL's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of that Fiscal Year.
(ii)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
less total operating expenses.
(iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 4% per annum of the 
average current gross value of BEL's fixed assets in operation, or 
other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding interest and 
other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of BEL's fixed assets in operation 
shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of 
BEL's fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of 
the Fiscal Year, as valued from time to time in accordance with 
sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(vi)
The term "current net value of BEL's fixed assets in operation" 
means the gross value of BEL's fixed assets in operation, as 
Page  4
valued from time to time in accordance with sound and consistently 
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank, less the 
amount of accumulated depreciation.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BEL shall not incur 
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of BEL shows 
that the estimated net revenues of BEL for each Fiscal Year during the term of the 
debt to be incurred shall be at least  1.5 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of BEL in such year on all debt of BEL including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of BEL maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by BEL 
not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt 
in question, which both the Bank and BEL accept as reasonable and 
as to which the Bank has notified BEL of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which 
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating results of BEL.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) BEL shall not, during the period of execution of the Project, 
undertake any major works or acquire any new assets, not included in the Project, 
unless the Bank shall have been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank 
showing:
(i)
that the undertaking of such major works or acquisition of such 
new assets is technically and economically justified; and
(ii)
that BEL has a sound financial plan for the undertaking of such 
Page  5
major works or acquisition of such new assets.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section the term "major works" or "new assets" 
shall mean any works or new fixed assets involving expenditures exceeding the 
equivalent of $500,000 each.
(c)
The provisions of this Section supercede those of Section 4.05 of the 
Project Agreement entered into between the Bank and the Borrower's Belize Electricity 
Board, later succeeded by BEL on August 22, 1986, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of BEL 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify BEL thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making  such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C. 
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For BEL:
Belize Electricity Limited
115 Barrack Road
Belize City, Belize, C.A.
Telex:
272-BEL
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BEL, or by BEL 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the 
Chief Executive Officer or such other person or persons as the Chief Executive Officer 
shall designate in writing, and BEL shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Page  6
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BELIZE ELECTRICITY LIMITED
By /s/ Dean R. Lindo
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
Actions to be taken by BEL                      Date (by)
1.  Employ the consultants required to                September 30, 1994
    carry out the detailed engineering,
    design, and construction included
    in Parts A, B and D of the Project.
2.  Furnish to the Bank:
    (a)   for its comments the Borrower's            March 31, 1995
          and BEL's recommendations
          based on the results of the
          study included in Part E of the
          Project;
    (b)   an action plan, satisfactory               January 31, 1995
          to the Bank, for the training
          of BEL's staff in the areas
          referred to in Part G of the
          Project; and
    (c)   an action plan, satisfactory               January 31, 1995
          to the Bank, for the integration
          of its data processing system
          and the purchase of the hardware
          and software required therefor.
3.  Employ the consultants required to               January 31, 1995
    prepare the plan for the monitoring
    and evaluation of the environmental
    impact of the Project included in
    Part F.3 of the Project, and for the
    training of BEL's staff included in
    Part G.1 of the Project.
4.  Carry out the recommendations of the             Promptly after
    study referred to in (2)(a) above, and           submission to
    the action plans referred to in (2)(b)           the Bank.
    and (c) above.
Page  7
5.  Employ the consultants required to               March 31, 1995
    carry out the study included in
    under Part F.1 of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works (other than for Parts A.2, 
A.4, B and D of the Project) shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two  predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with Parts A and C.1 
hereof, BEL shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no  relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, BEL shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Belize may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods for Part C of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded through 
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of 
bids obtained from qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance 
with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 
2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.
Training materials and equipment for Part G of the Project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent of 
$50,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from suppliers  eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts A and C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to  ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
Page  8
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist BEL in carrying out the Project, BEL shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory  to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, BEL shall employ such consultants under contracts  using the 
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, BEL shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior 
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank; and (d) amendments to contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above.
