Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3776 BEL
Loan Agreement
(Second Power Development Project)
between
BELIZE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 8, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3776 BEL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 8, 1994, between BELIZE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Caribbean Development Bank 
(CDB) a loan (the CDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $7,500,000 to assist in 
financing Part A.4 of the Project (other than the consultants' services required 
therefor) on the terms and conditions set forth in  an agreement (the CDB Loan 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CDB;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Commonwealth Development 
Corporation (CDC) a loan (the CDC Loan) in an amount equivalent to $5,200,000 to 
assist in financing Parts A.2 and B of the Project (other than the consultants' 
services required therefor) on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
CDC Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CDC;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Investment Bank (EIB) 
a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $3,200,000 to assist in financing 
Part D of the Project (other than the consultants' services required therefor) on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered 
Page  2
into between the Borrower and EIB;
(E)
Parts A through G of the Project will be carried out by Belize 
Electricity Limited (BEL) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to BEL the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
for such parts of the Project as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and BEL;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BECOL" means Belize Electric Company Limited, a company incorporated on 
April 24, 1991 in accordance with the Companies Act, Chapter 206 of the Laws of Belize 
with its registered office at 9 Regent Street, Belize City;
(b)
"BECOL Contracts" means: (i) the contract entered into on April 19, 1991, 
among Belize Electricity Board (BEB) (the Borrower's corporation succeeded by BEL, as 
defined below), Dominion Energy Inc. (DEI) and International Energy Equities Inc. 
(IEEI), (two companies  incorporated respectively in Richmond, Virginia and Denver, 
Colorado, United States of America) for the purchase of electricity from DEI and IEEI 
by BEB; and (ii) the contract entered into among DEI, IEEI and BECOL for the 
assignment of rights and obligations, under the aforementioned contract, by DEI and 
IEEI to BECOL;
(c)
"BEL" means Belize Electricity Limited, a company incorporated on October 
5, 1992 in accordance with the Companies Act, Chapter 206 of the Laws of Belize with 
its registered office at 115 Barrack Road, Belize City;
(d)
"CFE" means Comision Federal de Electricidad, a company established by 
the Ley Que Crea la Comision Federal de Electricidad, published in the Diario Oficial 
of the United Mexican States on August 24, 1937, as amended;
(e)
"CFE Contract" means a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered 
into between BEL and CFE for the supply of electricity by CFE to BEL;
(f)
"Charter" means BEL's Memorandum of Association and Articles of 
Association, both registered with the Registrar of Companies on October 5, 1992;
(g)
"Electricity Act" means the Electricity Act, 1992 of Belize;
 
(h)
"Fiscal Year" means BEL's fiscal year which commences on April 1 each 
year;
(i)
"License" means the license granted to BEL on January 7, 1993 under 
Section 15 of the Electricity Act;
(j)
"MEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Energy and Communications;
 
Page  3
(k)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Belize 
Electricity Limited (BEL) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement;
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(m)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BEL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of eleven million five hundred 
thousand dollars ($11,500,000), being the  sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Page  4
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Energy and Communications of the Borrower or a 
person designated by him in writing is hereby designated as representative of the 
Borrower in respect of Part H of the Project for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Articles V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out Part H of the Project through MEC with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate  administrative, management, and financial practices and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for such Part of the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause BEL to perform 
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of BEL 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
BEL to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated for Parts A 
through G of the Project to BEL under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BEL, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank which shall include, inter alia, financial terms identical, 
mutatis mutandis, to those applicable to the Loan under this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A 
through G of the Project shall be carried out by BEL pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Page  5
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1995, enact 
regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, for the Electricity Act defining, inter alia, 
procedures for the setting of electricity tariffs by MEC in accordance with the 
provisions of the Electricity Act.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views with regard to the Borrower's electricity 
pricing policies and its plans in respect of the overall development of the power 
sector.
(b)
The Borrower agrees, as long as it exercises control over the setting of 
prices of electricity supply companies, to establish or authorize prices for 
electricity sold by such companies to the public which would enable such companies, 
under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity utilization, 
to cover their respective operating costs including taxes, earn an adequate return on 
funds invested in them, meet their financial obligations and make a reasonable 
contribution to future investment for expansion of capacity.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part H of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
such Part of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower undertakes to take, or cause to be taken, all such 
measures as shall be required to enable BEL to comply with the provisions of Section 
Page  6
4.02 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
BEL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that BEL will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Electricity Act, or the License, or the Charter shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the Bank's 
opinion, materially and adversely the ability of BEL to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BEL or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
The CDB Loan Agreement or the EIB Loan Agreement or the CDC Loan 
Agreement shall have failed to become effective by March 31, 1995, or such later date 
as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall 
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(g)
BEL shall have become unable to procure from BECOL under the BECOL 
Contracts, or from CFE under the CFE Contract, or from any other supplier acceptable 
to the Bank, the electricity required for its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (e) or (g) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this Agreement shall 
occur; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (f)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Page  7
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and BEL;
(b)
the CDC Loan has been approved by CDC's Board; and 
 
(c)
the CFE Contract has been executed on behalf of BEL and CFE. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BEL, 
and is legally binding upon BEL in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and BEL and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BEL in accordance 
with its terms; and
(c)
that the CFE Contract has been duly authorized or ratified by BEL and CFE 
and is legally binding upon BEL and CFE in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date November 8, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Belmopan
Belize
Telex:
102 (FOREIGN BZ)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  8
BELIZE
By /s/ Dean R. Lindo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)     Goods:
    (a) for Part A.1          3,000,000)
        of the Project                 )            100% of foreign
                                       )            expenditures
    (b) for Part C              500,000)
        of the Project
(2)     Works for              3,100,000            100% of foreign
    Part A.1 of                                     expenditures
    the Project
(3)     Goods for                250,000            100% of foreign
    Part F.2 of                                     expenditures and
    the Project                                     of local expendi-
    and training                                    tures (ex-factory
    materials for                                   cost) and 85% of
    Part G of the                                   local expenditures
    Project                                         for locally pro-
                                                    cured imported
                                                    items
(4)     Works for                    500,000        100%
    Part F.2 of
    the Project
(5)     Consultants'
    Services:
    (a) for Parts A, B,           3,050,000)        100%
        D, E, F and G                      )
        of the Project                     )
                                           )
    (b) for Part H of               100,000)
        the Project                        )
(6)     Unallocated                1,000,000
Page  9
        TOTAL                     11,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after January 31, 1994; and
(b)
payments made under Categories (1) (a) and (2), unless BEL shall have: 
(i) completed all surveys of the land in respect of which rights of ways will be 
required for the installation of transmission lines under Part A of the Project and 
acquisition will be required for the substations to be constructed under Part B of the 
Project; and (ii) obtained all such rights of ways and property rights in respect of 
the land that will be required for the first year of Project implementation.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and 
consulting firms services not exceeding $25,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to integrate the Borrower's five major 
electricity demand centers into an integrated national system; (b) to increase the 
efficiency of the power sector and expand the private sector investments therein; and 
(c) to strengthen BEL.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Transmission Lines:
 
Design, installation and construction of:
1.
a single-circuit transmission line of 115 kilovolts extending to about 136 
kilometers from the Mexican border to a substation to be located in the vicinity of 
Belize City and Ladyville;
2.
a subtransmission line of 34.5 kilovolts extending to about 56 kilometers from a 
tap substation in the Mollejon transmission line to Dangriga;
3.
a subtransmission line of 34.5 kilovolts extending to about 8 kilometers from a 
tap substation in the transmission line from Mexico to the Caribbean coast;
4.
a submarine cable of 34.5 kilovolts extending to about 21 kilometers from the 
Caribbean coast to a substation to be located in the southern part of San Pedro on 
Ambergris Cay; and
5.
a subtransmission line of 34.5 kilovolts extending to about 5.6 kilometers from 
the substation to be located in the southern part of San Pedro in Ambergris Cay to the 
existing power plant in San Pedro. 
Part B:
Substations
 
Construction of:
1.
a transformer substation of 115/34.5 kilovolts and with a capacity of 
Page  10
7.5/9.5-10.5 megavolts amperes to connect the transmission line to Dangriga;
2.
a transformer substation of 34.5/22 kilovolts and with a capacity of 5/6.25-7 
megavolts amperes at Dangriga;
3.
a transformer substation of 115/34.5 kilovolts and with a capacity of 
7.5/9.5-10.5 megavolts amperes at Maskall;
4.
a switching substation of 115 kilovolts at the Mexican border; 
 
5.
a transformer substation of 115/34.5 kilovolts and with a capacity of 
7.5/9.5-10.5 megavolts amperes at Buena Vista in kilometer 120 of the Northern 
Highway;
6.
two circuit bays of 115 kilovolts at the Western Highway substation of the 
Mollejon transmission line; and
7.
a transformer substation of 34.5/22 kilovolts and with a capacity of 10.5 
megavolts amperes at Ambergris Cay.
Part C:
Maintenance
 
Maintenance of BEL's transmission lines and substations.
Part D:
Systems Development
 
Construction of a dispatch center, and installation of a computer system for 
supervisory control, data acquisition, and communication of BEL's systems operations 
and generation dispatch.
Part E:
Study
 
Study on the cost to BEL of providing electricity services and the tariffs 
levels required to cover its different costs for generation and distribution of 
electricity.
Part F:
Environmental Protection
 
1.
Environmental study of BEL's diesel-electric power stations including: (a) the 
preparation of plans for the prevention and control of diesel-oil spills including the 
identification of the countermeasures recommended therefor; (b) the identification of 
measures for the control of smoke emissions and noise; and (c) the investigation and 
review of options for the clean-up of areas contaminated by BEL's diesel-electric 
power stations. 
2.
Implementation of plans, measures and options prepared by the Borrower and BEL 
based on the recommendation of the study referred to in Part F.1 above and 
satisfactory to the Bank, including the training of BEL's concerned staff as may be 
required therefor.
3.
Preparation and implementation of a plan for the monitoring and evaluation of 
the measures recommended by BEL's environmental impact assessment to mitigate the 
environmental impact of the Project.
Part G:
Training
 
Strengthening of BEL's technical and administrative capabilities through 
training in the following areas:
1.
operation and maintenance of high voltage transmission lines and substations;
 
2.
electric systems operation and generation dispatch;
 
3.
calculation of tariffs as required to cover costs to BEL of providing 
electricity services;
4.
marketing of electricity including meter reading, billing and customer services;
 
5.
planning and mapping of electrical distribution systems; and 
 
6.
environmental impact evaluation and monitoring.
 
Page  11
Part H:
Regulations to the Electricity Act
 
Drafting of regulations for the Electricity Act.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 2000
through February 15, 2011
480,000
 
On August 15, 2011
460,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to the
Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
Page  12
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $750,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Page  13
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
