Page  1
July 5, 1995
Rt. Hon. Manuel Esquivel
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
 and Economic Development
Ministry of Finance
Belmopan
Belize
Re:
Belize: Loan No. 3776-BEL (Second Power Development
Project) Amendment
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between Belize (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated August 8, 1994. 
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to the request of your Financial 
Secretary dated May 8, 1995 the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as 
follows:
1.
Preamble.  Whereas (C) is deleted and replaced by a new Whereas (C) to read as 
follows:
"(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Caribbean Development 
Bank (CDB) an additional loan (the CDB Additional Loan) in an amount 
equivalent to $5,800,000 to assist in financing Parts A.2 and B of the Project 
(other than the consultants' services required 
therefor) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the CDB Additional Loan Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and CDB;" 
2.
Section 3.04.  The date "March 31, 1995" is deleted and replaced by "December 
31, 1995".
3.
Section 5.01.  Paragraph (e) The first three lines of the paragraph are deleted 
and replaced by:
(e)
The CDB Loan Agreement or the EIB Loan Agreement or the CDB 
Additional Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by September 
30, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided,
4.
Section 6.01.
 
(a)
Paragraph (a): the word "and" is added at the end of the paragraph (a)
 
(b)
Paragraphs (b) and (c) are deleted and replaced by a new paragraph (b) to 
read as follows:
"(b) the Additional CDB Loan has been approved by CDB's Board.".
5.
Section 6.02.
 
(a)
Paragraph (a): the word "and" is added at the end of the paragraph.
 
(b)
Paragraph (b): the semicolon and the word "and" at the end of paragraph 
(b) are deleted and replaced by a period.
(c)
Paragraph "(c)" is deleted.
 
6.
Schedule 1.  Paragraph 3.
 
(a)
Subparagraph (a): The word "and" is deleted at the end of the paragraph.
 
(b)
Subparagraph (b): The period at the end of the paragraph is deleted and 
replaced by "; and"
(c)
A new subparagraph "(c)" is added to read as follows:
Page  2
"(c) payments under category (1) unless the CFE Contract has been 
executed on behalf of BEL and CFE".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the form of  
confirmation below and returning the same to the undersigned.
The provisions of this amendment letter shall become effective, upon receipt of 
the signed form of conformation below, on the date the Loan Agreement becomes 
effective and on such date the original requirements of Section 5.01 (b) and (c) 
thereof shall be deemed to have been waived by the Bank.
Very truly yours,
By /s/ 
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
BELIZE
By /s/ 
(Authorized Representative)
Date
