Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19242 ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.7 MILLION (U.S. EQUIVALENT $24 MILLION)
TO ALBANIA
FOR A
SECOND IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 19, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = lek (ALL)
US$1 = ALL 145
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
ECA                    Europe and Central Asia
ERR                    Economic Rate of Return
FWUA(s)                Federation of Water User Association(s)
GIS                    Geographic Infornation System
KESH                   Albanian Electricity Company (Albanian Abb.)
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
IDA                    International Development Association
IDL                    Irrigation and Drainage Law
IRP                    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (the first project)
O&M                    Operation and Maintenance
MoAF                   Ministry of Agriculture and Food
NEA                    National Environment Agency
NGO(s)                 non governmental organization(s)
NWC                    National Water Committee
M&E                    Monitoring and Evaluation
MM(s)                  man month(s)
PMR                    project management report
PMU                    Project Management Unit
Ramsar Convention      Convention on the Protection of Wetlands of International
Importance, Especially As Waterfowl Habitat
REA                    Regional Environment Agency
SIDRP                  Second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project (the
second project)
SOE                    statement of expenditures
ToR(s)                 Terms of Reference
WUA(s)                 Water User Association(s)
WE(s)                  Water Enterprise(s)
WRL                    Water Resource Law
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Amtraud Hartmann
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Sector Leader: Joseph Goldberg
Task Team Leader: Toru Konishi



Albania
Second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Introduction
2. Rationale for the proposed second project
3. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
4. Indications of borrower and community (beneficiaries) commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Legal
7. Environmental assessment
8. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions for Board presentation
2. Conditions for Effectiveness



3. Other conditions
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.    Project Design Summary
Annex 2.    Detailed Project Description
Attachment 1.    Description of Possible First Phase Subprojects
Attachment 2.    List of Dams
Annex 3.    Review of the Irrigation Subsector
Annex 4.    Current Issues in Water Resource Management
Annex 5.    Legal Framework
Annex 6.    Estimated Project Costs
Annex 7.    Economic Analysis Summary
Annex 8.    Farm Model Summary
Annex 9.    Social Assessment
Annex 10.   Financial Management Arrangements
Annex 11.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 12.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 13.   Documents in Project File
Annex 14.   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 15.   Country at a Glance
Map         IBRD No. 30181



Albania
Second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Country Department II
Date: April 19, 1999                                    Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Toru Konishi
Country Manager/Director: Arntraud Hartmann             Sector Manager/Director: Kevin Cleaver
Project ID: 43178       Sector: Al                     Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan            Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [Xj No
Project Financing Data                  [] Loan        [xl Credit      [] Guarantee          II Other [Specifyl
For Credits
Amount (SDR million): 17.7 (U.S. equivalent $24 million)
Proposed terms:                           [ ]   Multi-currency   [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          [x ]  Standard Variable   [ ]  Fixed            []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                               Local                Foreign             Total
Government                                                        5.3                0.0                  5.3
Cofinanciers                                                      6.1                3.9                 10.0
IDA                                                              16.1                7.9                 24.0
Beneficiaries                                                     0.9                0.3                  1.2
Total          28.4                12.1                40.5
Borrower: Albania
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsible agency(ies):Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/SDR $       2000      2001        2002       2003       2004        2005
million)
IDA:                         Annual        1.9       3.9        4.3      4.2         3.0      0.4
Cumulative      1.9       5.8        10.1    14.3         17.3    17.7
Project implementation period: September 1999- September 2004, Expected effectiveness date: 8/31/1999
Expected closing date: 3/31/2005
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Introduction
Agriculture and Irrigation Sector.  Agriculture is the leading sector of the Albanian economy, consistently
accounting for approximately 50 percent of GDP and 60 percent of total employment during the last five years.
Policy reform has progressed significantly since 1991, particularly in relation to price reform, trade liberalization,
land reform and privatization of agro-industrial enterprises. Early in the reform process agricultural land from
collectivized cooperatives and state farms was privatized and distributed, creating about 400,000 very small family
farms (averaging about 1.1 hectares fragmented into four to five separate plots). Following the privatization of
almost all collectivized and state farms, and also many large-scale agroprocessing enterprises, the private sector now
dominates agricultural production, agroprocessing, and marketing. Agricultural production substantially increased
during 1995-97 after several years' decline, due mainly to the emergence of private farming, the development of
domestic markets, and a gradual increase in investment in agro-industries.
Irrigation is of vital importance to agriculture. While Albania has substantial annual rainfall (800-2,000 mm in
coastal areas, 1,600-2,000 mm in the hilly region, and up to 3,000 mm in the mountains) compared to other
Mediterranean countries, less than 20 percent occurs in the six-month period from April to September. The crop
water deficit between June and August ranges between 400 and 500 mm, which cannot be supplied from soil
moisture, making irrigation necessary for summer crops, such as vegetables, potatoes, water melons, and maize.
Perennial crops such as fruits and alfalfa also benefit from irrigation. Drainage is important in preventing flooding
and water-logging in winter, particularly in the coastal plain. Indeed, the construction of irrigation and drainage
schemes was given high priority under the socialist regime, and by the mid-1980s, irrigation and drainage schemes
covering about 420,000 and 280,000 hectares respectively were constructed. About two thirds of the irrigation area
was coastal marshlands, drained and reclaimed between the 1930s and late 1970s (see Annex 3 for more detailed
sector information).
During the socialist era, the state-owned, district-based water enterprises (WEs) had sole responsibility for the entire
irrigation and drainage sector, including planning, construction, operation and maintenance (O&M), and
management. During the gradual decline of the economy in the last period of the socialist regime, many irrigation
and drainage schemes entered into a vicious cycle of inadequate budget allocation, deferred maintenance, system
deterioration, and unreliable water delivery. Eventually many schemes ceased operations after the massive
destruction of public property which marked the demise of the socialist regime in 1991. Only 80,000 hectares were
actually irrigated in 1993.
Water Resource Management. Albania is endowed with large fresh water resources. Since the socialist era, ground
water has been reserved for the supply of drinking water. Small-scale irrigation reservoirs were constructed
extensively during the socialist era (more than 600), and the demise of the antiquated industrial sector as the past
regime collapsed has made the irrigation sector the largest user of surface water.
The National Water Committee (NWC), an inter-ministerial committee, comprises six ministers from key ministries
related to water issues (e.g., Agriculture and Food, Public Works and Transport, Health) and is chaired by the Prime
Minister. The NWC is in charge of the country's water sector policy under a Water Resource Law (WRL) enacted
in 1996. Under the NWC, a Technical Secretariat (the Secretariat) has been established directly under the Prime
Minister as an administrative agency to enforce the WRL. However, due to political and social confusion, and the
lack of imminent crises in this sector, the NWC has been inactive since its establishment.
While the supply of fresh water resources to all users is still not a problem in Albania, there are some issues of
concern for the Govemment including: (a) poor enforcement of the WRL, (b) a lack of measurements to ensure the
safety of dams (particularly small and medium sized irrigation dams and reservoirs) and flood control systems, and
(c) a lack of monitoring water balances.
The First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2632-ALB) began in December 1994 with the objectives of
(a) helping emerging small private farmers to increase agricultural production through rehabilitation of critical



Page 3
irrigation and drainage facilities; and (b) ensuring the long-term sustainability of irrigation through the introduction
of participatory irrigation management (PIM). Progress to date is satisfactory, as summarized below.
* Rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage canals covering approximately 98,000 and 120,000 hectares
respectively (or 22 and 43 percent of the total irrigation and drainage area) has been completed two years ahead
of schedule, on budget and with satisfactory quality, exclusively using national, private engineers, contractors
and supervisors.
* The irrigation intensity has increased from a mere 20 percent in 1993 to 60 percent in 1998.
* More than 200 water user associations (WUAs) have been established over an area of approximately 100,000
hectares involving 50,000 families, and 42 secondary irrigation canals covering about 98,000 hectares have
been transferred to these WUAs. These WUAs have collected funds from their members to operate and
maintain secondary canals on their own.
* Staff of the seven public water enterprises within the project area have been reduced from 1,500 in 1994 to 588
in 1998, and correspondingly the level of government subsidies has been reduced from 163 million lek
(US$1.63 million) in 1994 to 80 million (US$500,000) lek in 1997.
*   Six Federation of WUAs (FWUAs) has been established with responsibility for the management of primary
irrigation canals.
* Inspection of 26 irrigation reservoirs was carried out and identified repair works were implemented.
* Damage to irrigation canals (e.g., making illegal intakes, stealing canal gates) has been significantly reduced.
2. Rationale for the proposed second project
In summary, the primary rationale for the second project is the clear need to expand the initiatives taken under the
first project across the country, and to continue and complete essential institutional reform in the irrigation and
drainage sector. The sustainability of the irrigation and drainage sector would certainly be jeopardized without the
proposed second project.
The following is a summary of outstanding irrigation and drainage sector issues.
* Operation and maintenance of primary canals and reservoirs. The management vacuum at primary irrigation
facilities is a major issue. While WUAs are taking over operational responsibilities of secondary irrigation,
state-owned water enterprises (WEs) continue to be responsible for operation and maintenance of primary
canals and irrigation reservoirs. WEs have not been able to fulfill their obligations due to diminishing subsidies
and vandalism perpetrated during the civil turmoil of 1997. In response to these hardships, many WEs have
minimized their expenses in operation and maintenance instead of increasing operational efficiency. In the
absence of ministerial supervision, WEs are excessively renting out their equipment to the private sector in
order to pay personnel expenditures. Consequently, the operation of primary canals has not met the demand of
WUAs, and in 1998 about 50 percent of WUAs suffered from shortages of irrigation water. The WEs
subsequently lost farmers' confidence and trust and failed to collect any water tariffs.
Drainage management. The poor performance of water enterprises has also resulted in serious flood problems
due to neglect of maintenance for flood protection structures and drainage facilities, particularly in the northern
coastal plain. For example, in Lezhe, three to five floods occur every winter, causing major damage to farms
(winter crops, typically covering 4,000-6,000 hectares), and disrupting roads and railroad connections. In
addition, these floods lead to water logging and salination, which will affect long-term farm productivity. Poor
drainage management is indeed one of the major water resource management issues identified by the National
Water Committee.
* Capacity of water user associations (WUAs). While WUAs are positioned to play a central role in the irrigation
sector with management responsibility for secondary irrigation canals, their sustainability has not yet been
firmly established. A survey in 1998 indicated that about 60 percent of WUAs are considered to have
technical, financial, and administrative capacity sufficient to sustain themselves. A second group, accounting-
for about 20 percent of WUAs, is generally satisfactory, but experiences moderate problems. The remaining 20
percent of WUAs have serious problems, particularly in water delivery and tertiary canal management,
resulting in difficulties in maintaining membership and collecting water tariffs. While this is still satisfactory



Page 4
progress, considering the very limited history of WUAs (most started operation in 1996) and the civil turmoil of
1997, this survey indicates that continued technical assistance to WUAs is necessary to ensure the long-term
sustainability of the irrigation sector.
* Nationwide expansion. The rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage facilities and development of WUAs
should be expanded across the country. The success of the first project is limited to the project area, which
comprises only seven districts (Lushnje, Kavaja, Tirana, Durres, Kruja, Fier, and Laci), and many irrigation and
drainage facilities outside the project area are reported to have seriously deteriorated since 1993 due to
maintenance neglect and constant vandalism.
In addition, there is an urgent need to begin improving water resource management. In particular, the absence of an
institutional and legal framework for dam safety needs urgently to be addressed, as this is an issue not only for the
irrigation sector, but also for the safety of human lives. There are about 600 irrigation dams and reservoirs in the
country and no legal or institutional framework to routinely monitor dam safety. Maintenance is often neglected for
long periods due to the collapse of the water enterprises.
3. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The primary objectives of the proposed second project are to: achieve sustainable and equitable use of irrigation
water for agriculture production and reduce the risk of floods. It would also support the Government's initiative in
taking the first steps toward establishing an institutional and legal framework for dam safety.
The impact of the project would be measured by the following key indicators (figures in parenthesis are targets at
the end of the project):.
A.  Inp
- project expenditure for each component
* Component 1: System Rehabilitation (US$33.87 million)
* Component 2: Institutional Development (US $2.84 million)
* Component 3: Technical Studies (US$ 0.64 million)
* Component 4: Project Implementation Support (US$ 3.13 million)
- rehabilitation cost per hectare for each irrigation and drainage scheme ($/hectare)
B.  Output:
Irrigation Canals Rehabilitated, Improved and Operational (Component I and 3)
*  area returned to irrigation (50,000 hectares)
*  area returned to drainage (50,000 hectares)
*  number of dams rehabilitated (30 dams)
*  percentage of rehabilitated area irrigated (70 percent)
Participatory and Equitable Irrigation Management System Established and Operational (Component 2)
*  percentage of rehabilitated primary canals being managed by FWUAs within 6 months of
rehabilitation (50 percent)
*  percentage of rehabilitated secondary canals being managed by WUAs within 6 months of
rehabilitation (100 percent)
*  percentage of irrigating members paying water fee in full (90 percent)
*  percentage of WUAs having at least one women in their boards (50 percent)
*  gaps in access to available water among WUAs sharing the same primary canals (less than 20
percent)
level of satisfaction among WUA members with the water delivery(60 percent at the mid-
term review, 80 percent at the completion of the project)



Page 5
Farmers Training Program Designed and Operational (Component 2)
*  number and types of training, and number of participants from WUAs/FWUAs(l 50 WUAs
representatives participating in overseas training courses)
*  percentage of WUAs/FWUAs benefiting from the training (100 percent)
Water Enterprises Restructured (Component 2)
* Drainage Board Established (at 7 Districts at the mid-term review, and 11 at the completion
of the project)
Project Management Unit Operational (Component 4)
*  preparation of progress management reports (PMR)
*  preparation of subprojects
*  preparation of environmental monitoring report
*  preparation of annual work program and irrigation report
*  satisfactory completion of annual external audits
C.  Impact Indicators (Project Objective):
Achieve Sustainable and Equitable Use of Water for Agricultural Production
*  crop-wise yield increase (20 percent)
*  number of farmers using available irrigation water and technologies increasing their farming
income by at least 10 percent (50,000 farmers)
*  conversion to higher value crops (15 percent of irrigated areas dedicated to potatoes and
vegetables)
*  gaps between yield in upstream WUAs and downstream WUAs (less than 15 percent)
*  percentage of irrigation canals maintained properly (90 percent)
Reduce Risk of Flood
*  Drainage Operational Cost (US$ per hectare) (reduced by 20 percent by the end of the
project)
*  the number of flood incidences (reduced by 50 percent by the end of the project)
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: 18161 ALB   Date of latest CAS discussion: July 31, 1998
The CAS sets out three IDA assistance priorities: (a) Governance and Institution Building, (b) Promotion of
Sustainable Private Sector Growth, and (c) Promotion of Human Development and Poverty Alleviation. The CAS
further identifies agriculture as the most critical sector for sustaining the country's overall growth. In particular,
rehabilitating priority irrigation and drainage schemes and strengthening institutional frameworks for the
management of these schemes are identified as among the most crucial actions for exploiting the country's full
potential in agriculture, for minimizing the potential risks of salination and flooding of coastal plains, and for
establishing a financially and technically sustainable institutional framework for the irrigation and drainage sector.
The proposed second project is indeed fully supported by the CAS.
The CAS also indicates the importance of placing a strong emphasis on community participation in project
implementation to minimize the disruption of implementation in light of the country's weak governance. The
proposed second project will therefore aim to continue establishing and strengthening water user associations-
(WUAs) and their federations (FWUAs), through which irrigation users will organize themselves and operate and
maintain irrigation and drainage schemes in a democratic and self-sustaining manner.



Page 6
2. Main sector issues and government strategy
Despite the considerable success of the first project, sustainability of the irrigation and drainage sector is not yet
fully achieved. As stated in Section A-2 above, there are four main sector issues: (a) operation and management of
primary irrigation facilities, (b) drainage management, (c) capacity of water user associations, and (d) nationwide
expansion of rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage facilities and development of WUAs.
The Government is responding to these challenging issues with an aggressive strategy. The following are the
Government's medium to long-term goals: (a) transferring the entire responsibility for irrigation to water users
through development of federations of water user associations (FWUAs); (b) restructuring state-owned water
enterprises; (c) strengthening WUAs and FWUAs; and (d) rehabilitating irrigation and drainage facilities and
developing WUAs. In detail, the Government's strategy can be summarized as follows.
(a) Transferring the responsibility of irrigation management to water users. The Government has embarked on a
program to transfer all irrigation responsibilities to water users. It is anticipated that all transfers will be
completed by 2004. Under this strategy WUAs, established on a hydrological basis, will be responsible for
operation and maintenance of secondary irrigation canals. Federations of WUAs (FWUAs) will then be
established to operate and maintain primary irrigation facilities and associated drainage schemes. These WUAs
and FWUAs will exist as financially autonomous water user-controlled institutions, and will carry out all
irrigation tasks relating to planning, maintaining and operating irrigation and drainage facilities, tariff fixing,
and collecting fees from members. Upon transfer, the existing government subsidies for O&M will be
completely terminated, and the role of the Government will be relegated to technical and financial supervision
of these WJUAs and FWUAs. Eventually, these WUAs and FWUAs will also take over ownership of irrigation
and drainage schemes.
(b) Restructuring of state-owned water enterprises. As responsibilities for irrigation are transferred to WUAs and
FWUAs, tasks for state-owned, district-based water enterprises will be confined to drainage management and
river and flood protection, which are of a 'public goods' nature. Drainage Boards, comprising major
beneficiaries such as water users (farmers) and municipalities, will be established for each water enterprise to
supervise operations and ensure financial accountability. In Albania, the public, sector is generally weak and
inefficient, and beneficiary participation in management is considered essential to improving operational
efficiency. Nationally funded irrigation and drainage investment (design, civil works, supervision) undertaken
by water enterprises will be contracted out to the private sector so that restructured water enterprises can focus
on operation and maintenance.
(c) Strengthening WUAs and FWUAs. WUAs and FWUAs are set to play a primary role in the irrigation sector, as
they will be primarily responsible for the operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities. These WUAs and
FWJUAs are immediately facing a number of tasks and challenges, ranging from off-farm irrigation
management, water delivery, technical support to individual farmers, dispute resolution, water fee collection
and agriculture marketing. To address this wide range of issues the WUAs and FWUAs will require intensive
consultation and training, and the Government intends to provide WUAs/FWUAs with technical assistance,
overseas training, and study tours.
(d) Rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage schemes and development of WUAs. In order to expand initiatives
taken under the first project, the Government also envisages further rehabilitation of critical irrigation and
drainage facilities in areas where farmers are committed to irrigated agriculture and are willing to organize
themselves into WUAs.  This would alleviate rural poverty and encourage self-sustaining economic
development.'
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
A farm model analysis indicated that the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes would create decent jobs in a cost-effective way.
See Section E-2.



Page 7
Irrigation and Drainage. The proposed second project will support and reinforce the Government's strategy. First,
the project -will continue to rehabilitate deteriorated irrigation and drainage schemes which are of sufficient
economic viability. The project will adopt the rehabilitation strategy of the first project, and focus on primary and
secondary canals, maximizing the area covered rather than intensifying rehabilitation efforts to include tertiary
canals, and thereby limiting the total area covered by the project (Section D-l). Selection of the rehabilitation area
will be based on requests from farmers and their commitment to organizing WUAs and FWUAs (Section E). While
the rehabilitation of tertiary canals will rely on farmers' and WUAs' initiative, the proposed project will provide
well-performing WUAs and FWUAs with small funds to support self-help improvements of tertiary canals.
Institutionally, the project will support the development and strengthening of WUAs and FWUAs and the
restructuring of WEs through extensive technical assistance.
Specific actions to be taken under the project include the following.
(a) Rehabilitation of irrigation facilities with substantial user participation (including financial contributions
towards rehabilitation costs) and transfer of operational responsibility to water users (Component 1-A, and C, a:
System Rehabilitation - Rehabilitation and Minor Improvement of Irrigation Facilities, Rehabilitation of
Reservoirs and Headworks).
(b) Rehabilitation of major drainage schemes, possibly including construction of critical flood prevention structures
and river training (Component 1-B: System Rehabilitation - Rehabilitation of Flood Control Structure and
Drainage Facilities).
(c) Strengthening of water user associations (WUAs) and federations of WUAs (FWUAs), and development of a
WUA supervision unit within the PMU (Component 2-A: Institutional Development - Support for WUAs and
FWUAs).
(d) Support to water enterprises to aid their restructuring into public institutions focused on operation of large
drainage schemes (Component 2-B: Institutional Development - Supportfor Water Enterprises Restructuring).
(e) Preparation of technical studies to explore the possibilities for system improvement and modernization
(Component 3-A: Technical Studies - Improved Irrigation and Drainage Design).
(f) Pilot trial to improve environmental management associated with irrigation and drainage (Component 3-B:
Technical Studies - Improved Environmental Management).
(g) Support to assist with the development of a legal and institutional framework for a dam safety program
(Component I-C Rehabilitation of Reservoirs and Headworks, Component 2-B: Support for Water Enterprises
Restructuring).
The project will also provide support to the emerging construction industry, to improve their discipline, and their
technologies. Similar to other formerly socialist countries, Albania has a very short history with private contractors.
While the experience with private contractors under the first project is generally positive, there is a need to sensitize
them to certain issues such as contractual procedures (bidding procedures, contracts, supervision, quality control,
general rights and obligations) and appropriate construction technologies. In this context, several workshops and
seminars will be organized under Component 2-C: Support for Private Contractors.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 and Annex 2, Attachment I.for a detailed description and Annex 6for a
detailed cost breakdown)
Component                        Category      Indicative    % of    IDA-    % of IDA
Costs (US$M)  Total  financin   financing
(U $M)



Page 8
Component                              Category        Indicative    % of       IDA-       % of IDA
Costs (US$M)   Total   financing    financing
(US$M)
Component 1: System Rehabilitation                      Physical            33.87           83.7      18.70     77.9
A. Rehabilitation and Minor Improvement of Irrigation
Facilities
B. Rehabilitation of Flood Control and Drainage Facilities
C. Rehabilitation of Irrigation Reservoirs and Headworks
D. Design and Supervision
Component 2: Institutional Support                      Policy/             2.84            7.0       1.83      7.6
Institution Building
A. Supportfor WUAs and FWUAs                                              2.30
* Establishment of WUA Supervision Unit
* Technical Support to WUAs/FWUAs
B. Supportfor Water Enterprises                                           0.47
* Development of Restructuring Plan
• Implementation Support (technical assistance, equipment,
and training)
C. Support for Construction Industries                                    0.07
. Seminars, Workshops, and Study Tours
Component 3: Technical Studies                          Policy/ Institution    0.64         1.6       0.59      2.5
Building
A. Improved Irrigation and Drainage Designs                               0.36
v Improved Design for Gates
* Improved Design for Pumpstations
X Development of Design Manuals
v Development of Operation Manuals
B.  Improved Environmental Management                                     0.28
* Pilot Communal Management of Micro-Watersheds
* Best Agricultural Practice Extension Service in Karavasta
Catchment
* Environmental Monitoring
Component 4: Implementation Support                     Institution Building/  3.13         7.7       2.88      12.0
Project
A. Development of Investment Program                  Administration      0.52
* Feasibility studies, environmental review, dam safety
inspections
* Development of Rehabilitation Plan for Irrigation Schemes
in Karavasta Watershed (LUU-2 and LUK-5)
B. Project Administration and Implementation Support                      1.44
(Technical assistance in financial management, MIS
system set up, procurement, engineering)
C. Support to Project Management Unit (incremental                        1.17
operational cost including PMU staff salaries, office
equipment, vehicles, fuel, utility cost, etc.)
Total                                              40.48           100.0     24.00     100.0



Page 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
Key institutional reforms for the proposed second project in the irrigation and drainage sector include (a)
development and strengthening of WUAs and federations of WUAs (FWUAs); (b) restructuring of water
enterprises; and (c) establishment of explicit procedures for irrigation and drainage investment.
(a)   Development of WUAs and FWUAs. Development of WUAs/FWUAs and restructuring of WEs will be
implemented in the following three phases: (i)}preparatory phase ( - June 1999), (ii) first phase (June 1999 - April
2002), and (iii) second phase (May 2002 - September 2004). The detailed plan of action is summarized below. A
mid-term review will be carried out at the end of the first phase (by April 30, 2002, Section G-3) to confirm
progress and allow lessons learned to be fed back into the second phase implementation.
(i) Preparatory phase
*   A pilot FWUA was established in Kavaja during the 1998 irrigation season to develop a methodology
and procedures for developing federations of water user associations (FWUAs). This pilot FWUA,
which comprises 11 WUAs covering some 8,000 hectares and involving 8,300 family members, has
demonstrated sufficient capacity to operate and maintain the 42-kilometer Peqin-Kavaja primary canal
during the 1998 irrigation season. Following an evaluation of the pilot FWUA, an additional 14
FWUAs have been established in Lushnje, Fier, Korca, Elbasan, and Laci, and responsibility for
operation and maintenance of primary irrigation canals and reservoirs has already been transferred to
these newly created associations.
*   WUAs have already been established at 8 irrigation schemes identified as possible subprojects under
the proposed second project, covering a total of about 35,000 hectares distributed throughout the
country. These WUAs have already agreed to take over operational responsibility for secondary
irrigation canals upon rehabilitation.
*   A draft for the new Irrigation and Drainage Law (IDL, see Section E-6) has been prepared for
submission to the Parliament in order to inter alia: establish a firmer legal basis for the establishment
of FWUAs; define more clearly their tasks and relationship with WUAs; promote transparency within
WUAs through mandatory accounting and audit procedures and strengthening the rights of WUA
members; set out clearer provisions on dispute resolution for WUAs and FWUAs; and establish a legal
basis for economic and technical supervision and regulation of WUAs and FWUAs by the MoAF.
(ii) First Phase
*   Areas covered under the first project (Tirana, Durres, Kruja, Kavaja, Laci, Lushnje, and Fier). The
project expects to complete the establishment of FWUAs at the seven districts covered under the first
project, allowing operational responsibilities for entire irrigation facilities, including primary canals and
drainage facilities, to be fully transferred from water enterprises to FWUAs.
*   Other districts. WUAs will be established on secondary irrigation canals using irrigation scheme
rehabilitation as an incentive. Rehabilitation will proceed in selected areas only if farmers organize
themselves into WUAs covering at least 50 percent of command areas and these WUAs sign an
agreement with the MoAF to take over responsibility for operation and maintenance of rehabilitated
secondary irrigation canals. The project will also facilitate the establishment of an informal committee
which comprises all WUAs sharing a primary irrigation canal. The committee will then be transformed
into a federation of WUAs during the second phase.
(iii) Second Phase
*   WUAs established during the first phase will be encouraged to form federations of WUAs, which will
then become responsible for the operation and maintenance of primary irrigation facilities. Monitoring
and evaluation will be carried out to identify any issues which need particular attention, such as
technical and financial matters. Transfer of ownership of irrigation facilities will also be considered for-
well-performing WUAs and FWUAs, with small financial support towards the purchase of irrigation
equipment and small civil works.



Page 10
(b)   Restructuring State-Owned Water Enterprises. The project will also support the restructuring of water
enterprises by helping them to withdraw from operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities, and to consolidate
their responsibilities to regional drainage and flood protection. Support will be given to the establishment of
drainage committees, which will initially supervise water enterprises by approving annual accounts, proposed
budgets and work plans, and staffing levels.
(i) Preparatory Phase
Tirana, Durres, Kruja, Kavaja, Laci, Lushnje, Fier. Major retrenchment of redundant staff has already
been completed at several water enterprises as FWUAs take over operational responsibility for
irrigation facilities.2 The tasks of Kavaja and Lushnje water enterprises have already been consolidated
to drainage management. A business assessment to review the skills of the remaining staff and
determine the financial status of the enterprises has been completed; this will formn the basis for
developing a concrete restructuring implementation plan.
Other areas. A series of workshops for the management staff of water enterprises has been started to
disseminate the concept of WUAs, inform farmers about the progress of the first project, and explain
the concept of the second project.
(ii) First Phase
*    Tirana, Durres, Kruja, Kavaja, Laci, Lushnje, Fier. The project will first aim to develop a restructuring
implementation plan that sets out the new structure, defines the necessary workforce, and estimates the
annual expenses for water enterprises at these districts.
*    Other Areas. As secondary irrigation facilities are transferred to WlUAs, WEs will gradually reduce
their workforces. A comprehensive business assessment and interim restructuring plan will be prepared
to review the current workforce, inventory, and financial status of each WE, to redefine the mandate of
WEs, and to develop a concrete action plan to improve their performance, including the merger of
several small WEs.
(iii) Second Phase
Within the seven districts covered by the first project, implementation of the restructuring plan will be
completed. For other areas, responsibility for irrigation facilities will be gradually transferred to
FWUAs.  The project will focus on strengthening the regulatory and monitoring capacity of the
Department of Water at the MoAF in order to ensure proper maintenance of transferred facilities. The
Government intends to complete the entire restructuring by year 2004.
(c)    Establish Transparent Procedures for Irrigation and Drainage Investment. As a part of the water enterprise
restructuring, increased reliance will be placed on the private sector for implementation of civil works for the
irrigation and drainage sector. Nationally funded civil works are currently carried out by water enterprises -from
planning to construction and supervision. In the absence of govemment supervision, investment funds are not
always used effectively due to the obvious conflict of interest. In addition, these funds are often reallocated to cover
recurrent costs, mainly personnel expenditures. As water enterprises begin to focus on drainage management,
procurement for irrigation and drainage should be handled by the MoAF (for nationally funded projects) and the
PMU (for intemationally funded projects). As demonstrated by the first project, design and supervision should also
be delegated to the private sector.
In addition, to increase the effectiveness and transparency of investment, the proposed second project would
establish the following procedures and criteria.
Selection. Prior to rehabilitation, a brief report will be prepared to assess priorities in the following four
areas: technical (current physical situation), economic (current irrigation percentage, pumping height, and
rehabilitation cost), social (size of scheme and number of beneficiaries), and institutional (coverage of
2 For example, the number of staff at Kavaja and Lushnje water enterprises has dropped from 150 and 250 in 1996 to 46 and 84
respectively as of November 1998. The total number of staff at the seven water enterprises covered under the first project has
decreased from 1,500 in 1994 to 588 in 1998.



Page 1 1
WUA membership, collection rate, and reserve funds). An environmental review will be carried out in
collaboration with international consultants and local NGOs/consultants for schemes proposed for
rehabilitation for clearance by the National Environmental Agency. A detailed economic analysis will be
carried out for irrigation and drainage schemes larger than 1,000 hectares. Purely nationally funded
irrigation investment would be limited to small 'pocket' areas (less than 1,000 hectares) where WUAs are
established but no rehabilitation has been made under the first project. The demand-driven approach,
which is based on farmers' commitment to irrigated agriculture and farmers' willingness to take
responsibility for irrigation management, shall be used for all irrigation investment (refer to Section E-8 for
details). The investment proposal will be presented to the steering committee (Section C-4) and IDA for
review and approval. The detailed process for selecting subprojects is described in the Operational
Manual, the preparation of which is a condition for effectiveness of the project (Section G-2).
*   Implementation. Physical rehabilitation works (i.e., design, construction, quality control and supervision)
will be implemented exclusively by the private sector. The role of the Government will be confined to
regulation and supervision.
*   Evaluation.   A  post-investment monitoring and evaluation (M&E) review  to assess the overall
effectiveness of the investment will be introduced and formalized. Each year after rehabilitation, a post-
irrigation workshop will be carried out for each scheme to review the irrigation, identify any issues, and
jointly formulate an action plan for the coming irrigation season.
3. Benefits and target population
The primary project benefits will be: (a) increased agricultural production and a corresponding increase in
income for farming families through the restoration and/or improvement of irrigation services; and (b) an increase
in the efficiency and sustainability of irrigation and drainage schemes through continued institutional reform.
(a) Increased Agriculture Production and Income. The proposed project will primarily benefit about 50,000
smallholder families, typically with 0.5-1.5 hectares. The data from the first project indicates a substantial
increase in agriculture income (ranging from US$300 to 500 per year per hectare) through the restoration of
reliable irrigation and drainage systems. In addition, the drainage and flood protection works will benefit an
additional 5,000-10,000 families living adjacent to the project area by reducing the incidence of flooding,
particularly in the northern coastal plain (Lezhe and Shkodra). While the proposed project does not explicitly
target a particular income group, the majority of project beneficiaries would very likely be of lower incomes
compared to urban dwellers. A socio-economic survey indicated that the majority of beneficiaries would have
annual family farm incomes of 210,000-300,000 lek (approx. US$ 1,500-2,100). However, it should also be
noted that there is a much wider range of off-farm income and access to capital among beneficiaries, depending
on remittances from family members abroad.
(b) Increased Efficiency and Sustainability of the Irrigation and Drainage Sector.
*   Irrigation.  The proposed second project aims to establish a self-sustaining irrigation sector.  The
experience from the first project indicates that farmers are generally keen to take over O&M
responsibilities, as they would prefer to secure irrigation water on their own, rather than depend on
unreliable water enterprises. With water users' direct participation, strong commitment, and more frequent
coordination, the transfer of irrigation systems to WUAs and FWUAs has been proven to improve
irrigation management. The collection of irrigation water fees from farmers has also increased along with
their growing confidence in WUAs. The proposed project will also encourage farmers to conserve water
by enforcing full recovery of operation and maintenance costs from users. Some WUAs have already
introduced quasi-volumetric charges depending on crops and the number of irrigations.
*   Drainage. The proposed second project will also improve the efficiency of drainage management. The
project will facilitate the transition of water enterprises to public drainage institutions with fewer staff at
the technical and administrative level, and beneficiary participation at the management level. The project
will assist in preparing a concrete implementation plan to define the new mandate of the drainage



Page 12
institutions, and their organization and management structure. The project will also provide technical
assistance, training, and essential equipment to facilitate the implementation of WE restructuring and to
enhance their technical capacity in drainage management.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
(a) Institutional Arrangements
The following are the main stakeholders in the proposed project: (i) the Government, (ii) water enterprises, and (iii)
farmers (water users, WUAs). The roles of these stakeholders are summarized as follows.
(i) The Government. The National Water Council, as the custodian of overall water resource policies, will be
responsible for coordinating various ministries in preparing a coherent water resource management plan.
The responsibility for the irrigation and drainage sector will then be delegated to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (MoAF).
*  Supervisory Committee. The Supervisory Committee, comprising the representatives from the Ministry
of Finance, the Ministry of Local Government, and the Ministry of Economic Cooperation, the Technical
Secretariat of the National Water Council, and chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, meets
every six months to review and approve progress reports, which review on-going subprojects and
subprojects proposed for the next six months.
*  National Environmental Agency (NEA). The NEA will monitor and supervise environmental aspects of
this project, in particular it will: (a) review environmental assessments for all subprojects and clear
them, (b) participate in public consultation on environmental issues, and (c) monitor progress in
mitigation measures for subprojects.
*   Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MoAF). As the designated executing agency of the IDA credit, the
MoAF will have overall authority for project implementation (including procurement, reporting, and
disbursement), and will be responsible for formulating and enforcing irrigation and drainage policies.
*  Steering Committee. A Steering Committee will also be established within the MoAF to review and
approve the selection of subprojects for submission to the Supervisory Committee. Specific actions for
agriculture and irrigation policy will also be discussed by the committee. The committee will be chaired
by the Minister of Agriculture, and will comprise the following five other members: (i) the Director
General of Agriculture, (ii) the Director of the Water Department, (iii) the Director of the Agriculture
Program Office (APO), (iv) the Director of Finance, and (v) the Director of the PMU.
*  Project Management Unit (PMU). The project will be implemented by the Project Management Unit for
the first irrigation rehabilitation project, which has demonstrated a strong capacity for project
implementation. Its main tasks will include: (i) preparation of an investment program based on
eligibility criteria; (ii) preparation of feasibility studies and recommendations for submission to the
technical committee for approval; (iii) review and approval of detailed design and engineering studies
and tender documents prepared by consultants; (iv) procurement of goods, civil works, and consultant
services; (v) management of the technical assistance component; (vi) verification and processing of
statements of expenditures and withdrawal applications; (vii) reporting, project accounting, and auditing
arrangements, (viii) preparation of periodic progress reports for review by the Steering Committee, NEA,
IDA and other donors; and (ix) monitoring and evaluation of project impact. The proposed structure of
the PMU is described in detail in the project implementation plan (PIP).
The PMU would continue to be responsible for supervising WUAs/FWUAs and providing them with
technical assistance during project implementation. The PMU has been the driving force in promoting
the concept of WUAs across the country during the last five years, and has acquired a considerable
amount of experience and expertise. Therefore, the PMU's continuous involvement is considered critical
to the success of the project. The WUA unit established within the PMU would be strengthened so as to -
not only promote WUAs but also to technically and financially supervise WUAs. However, the PMU is
a temporary institution, and in order to establish a sustainable framework for the supervision of WUAs,



Page 13
an option to establish a national association of WUAs/FWUAs with possible funding from WUAs will be
explored during the mid-term review.
(ii) Water Enterprises. The project will undertake restructuring of the district-based state-owned water
enterprises in response to the redefinition of their role (see Section C above), and will provide them with
key technical assistance and equipment in order to support this restructuring. Excess equipment for the
maintenance of irrigation (e.g., small excavators) will be rented and/or transferred to WUAs.
(iii) Farmers. Farmers within the subproject areas will formally and directly participate in the project (see
Section E-8) through water user associations (WUAs) and federations of WUAs (FWUAs).
* WUAs and FWUAs. WUAs will be the main vehicle for ensuring beneficiary participation in the project
at all levels. As there will be prior formation of WUAs, and rehabilitation will be in response to their
request, they will be able to participate at all stages from identification, planning, design and
construction supervision to eventual system transfer. WUAs will then form an FWIUA for each primary
canal (see Section E-4).
(b) Project Management Arrangements
Accounting, Financial Reporting andAuditing Arrangements
(i) Overall Financial Management. The project financial management system and operational manuals,
including accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements, will be established prior to project
effectiveness (Section G-2).  Accounting information submitted by the PMU  must comply with
international accounting standards. Project accounts will be maintained by the PMU separately from other
existing accounts. The PMU will manage the Special Account for the IDA Credit. The PMU will be
responsible for orderly and efficient recording and safeguarding of project assets and resources, and will:
(a) ensure accountability for project funds; (b) maintain records of the sources of funds, and the relevant
accounts; (c) maintain intemal controls to ensure that financial records are reliable, complete and provided
on a timely basis; (d) report on the use of funds; (e) facilitate verification of these reports by independent
auditors; and (f) provide information, as required, to IDA.
(ii) Financial Reporting. During project implementation the PMU will submit to IDA a quarterly project
financial management report in the agreed format. The report will include; (a) summary of sources and
uses of funds by project categories of expenditures, showing the IDA credit and funds from other donors
separately, in currency as determined by project design; (b) summary of expenditures by project
components, for the current fiscal year, and accumulated to date; (c) summary of statement of expenditures
(SOEs) by individual application reference number and amount; (d) special account statement providing
reconciliation of amounts in the Special Account; and (e) expenditures report by disbursement category
during the current quarter and next quarter.
(iii) Financial Audit. The PMU will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing the financial
audits of the project to IDA within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year, in a form that is acceptable to
IDA. The PMU will have the required financial statements for each year audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank in accordance with standards that are acceptable to the Bank, and the
selection of an independent auditor is a condition for effectiveness (Section G-2). The auditor should be
appointed in sufficient time to carry out his/her responsibilities, including: (a) a review of the financial
management systems at the beginning of project implementation; and (b) periodic reviews of the project
financial management systems thereafter.
(iv) Financial Manual. Prior to project effectiveness, an operational manual will be developed to include a
financial manual which specifies: (a) detailed procedures and arrangements for financial management-
(accounting, internal control, auditing requirements); (b) a reporting format including quarterly and annual
reports; and (c) procedures for monitoring and evaluation (see Annex 10 for a description). Preparation of
the Financial Manual, as a part of an operational manual, is a condition for effectiveness (Section G-2).



Page 14
(v) Procurement. Procurement procedures, together with a procurement plan, are described in Annex 11 to
this PAD and in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection
Based on the experience and lessons from the first irrigation rehabilitation project, the proposed second project will
focus mainly on improved irrigation and drainage management. Particularly, the project aims to pursue nationwide
promotion of the concept of participatory irrigation management, along with further development of the role of
water user associations, and the realignment of public sector involvement in the irrigation and drainage sector. The
proposed second project will also incorporate improvements in irrigation facilities and practices aimed at increasing
water use efficiency, particularly through the introduction of water measurement and control devices. This
improvement will also directly contribute to institutional sustainability by increasing equity and transparency in the
distribution of irrigation water.
Alternatives considered during the conceptualization of the project included the following.
* Irrigation Technology. The use of tubewells as an alternative to the rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes
has been considered and rejected. The project would continue inexpensive rehabilitation of gravity-based
irrigation canals. The overriding concern of introducing tubewells is that with the lack of legislation and
control mechanisms, and in the absence of a reliable assessment of resources, over-exploitation of groundwater
in the coastal areas (where the main irrigation areas are located) would result in saline intrusion, which would
also impact on drinking water supplies that depend solely on this source.
*  Support to Agriculture. Irrigation is but one input to agriculture, and there are clear deficiencies in many other
areas of the agricultural production chain, such as marketing, input supply, extension services, and credit. An
alternative project design would incorporate additional support in these areas to farmers and water user
associations (WUAs). However, it was decided that it is important for project success to retain the relatively
simple approach of focusing on establishing technically and financially viable WUAs.  Alternatively,
collaboration with existing agriculture projects (e.g., Community Works Project, Microcredit Project (IDA),
National Extension Development Project (the Government of Netherlands), and Community-Based Credit and
Savings Union Project (GTZ)) will be sought through the coordination efforts of the Steering Committee. This
will enable synergies while keeping the project design simple. In addition, IDA is preparing an Agriculture
Services Project, which will focus on strengthening institutional support to private farmers with seeds,
extension, marketing and livestock components. Agricultural support under the proposed second project will
therefore be limited to advanced and specialized training such as in hydroponics, fish-farning and single-crop
production associations for selected WUAs which have already demonstrated strong capacity.
On Farm Management. One of the issues arising from the first project is the low efficiency of on-farm
irrigation management.3 Farmers are experiencing difficulties in properly managing water in the tertiary canals
and on the farm land for a number of reasons, such as inaccurate water allocation to secondary canals, poor
efficiency of tertiary canals, and inefficient on-farm water application. While the issue of water allocation to
secondary canals is going to be addressed by installing measurement devices, the problems with tertiary canals
and on-farm water management are of critical importance as they affect land productivity, water conservation,
equity in farrners' access to water, and ultimately social cohesion in WUAs. In addition, the economic analysis
revealed that the economic viability of several subprojects (see Section E-2 and Annex 7) is sensitive to the
yield of irrigated crops.
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In Albania, on-farm irrigation facilities are tertiary canals. Typically, these tertiary canals are ditches 30 cm wide and 600-
meters long, and are located directly adjacent to private land every 200 meters to supply water from secondary irrigation canals
(i.e., one tertiary canal per 12 hectares, owned by 15-20 families). Prior to each irrigation season, farmers have to clean tertiary
canals to get water. Legal ownership of these tertiary canals is still unclear. Under the law, these tertiary canals may belong to
the state; however, farmers consider these canals as their own property.



Page 15
The current on-farm setting is not necessarily efficient, and there is room for improvement. For example, the
use of long furrows or borders is generally considered an optimal solution. However, experience from many
countries shows that introducing such systems is expensive and time-consuming, and often ends in
disappointing results. Farmers are generally reluctant to shift from traditional to sophisticated on-farm water
management techniques, except when labor costs become a limiting factor and/or higher standards of irrigation
uniformity significantly increase the market value of output. More significantly, the studies carried out under
the first project indicated that both furrow and border systems require a much lower slope in the land than is
found at the current locations, and winter drainage would be very difficult using these systems. The pilot
program indeed confirmed the high cost for erasing the 'hill and valley' configuration and validated farmers'
reluctance and skepticism.
In conclusion, given the availability of funds and the overwhelming need, a strategic choice was made to limit
rehabilitation to primary and secondary canals, and to maximize coverage rather than include tertiary canals in
limited areas. Therefore, rehabilitation of tertiary canals will be carried out in principle under the farmers' own
initiative, responsibility, and funding. However, the second project will support this end by (a) raising the
awareness of stakeholders (WUA managers, large-scale farmers, contractors) through training (seminars, field
visits, study tours); and (b) improving tertiary canal intakes by providing funds to well performing WUAs and
FWUAs to upgrade tertiary canals and/or purchase small irrigation pumps according to WUAs' preferences
(see Section E-5).
Institutional Framework: During project preparation, the following alternatives for the institutional setting for
irrigation and drainage have been explored.
(i) Irrigation
While there is a clear advantage to transferring secondary irrigation from water enterprises to WUAs,
particularly for the maintenance of smaller irrigation canals and distribution of irrigation water, the institutional
setting for the larger primary canals is indeed debatable, as the management of such large facilities require more
sophisticated skills and technologies. Operation and maintenance of larger reservoirs may also involve
significant liabilities downstream. Primary irrigation facilities often remain within the public domain in many
countries for these reasons. In Albania, however, there is no altemative. The ethics of public sector employees
are dubious, and farmers have no confidence in the public water enterprises. It would be extremely difficult for
the project to attempt to revitalize water enterprises and restore farmers' confidence. However, Albanian
farmers are generally willing to take over this big responsibility. Lessons from several World Bank projects
(Mexico) and from Western European countries indicate that the transfer of primary irrigation facilities to
large-scale user organizations (federations of WUAs) is the best option for achieving transparency,
accountability, and confidence from members, and therefore higher cost recovery and efficiency rates, because
farmers have a direct interest in the management of irrigation facilities.
There is a risk arising from the weak capacity of WUAs, whose history is still short, and their long-term
sustainability is still not proven (See Section E-4). To address this issue, the project proposes a bottom-up
demand-driven approach in which the rehabilitation of irrigation canals is contingent on the strong commitment
of farmers, including up-front financial contributions, in order to nurture their ownership. The project will also
provide post-transfer support, including extensive technical training to WUA staff in all relevant aspects
(irrigation management, on-farm irrigation application, and organizational administration). The project would
provide incentives to well performing WUAs/FWUAs in the form of small block grants to be used for various
activities (based on demand) such as: civil works to improve irrigation and drainage canals, small field
equipment, technical assistance in advanced agriculture technology, office renovations, and study tours.
Status of Water User Associations. The project will not aim to change the current status of WUAs and FWUAs
as private and voluntary associations. While in developed countries, generally, these institutions have public-
status and participation is mandatory, the voluntary status of WUAs/FWUAs in Albania is considered most
suitable. In light of farmers' distrust of the public sector and past vandalism of public goods (particularly 1991
and 1997), it is considered premature to require farmers to organize and join public institutions. Indeed, it is



Page 16
fundamental to the design of the project that the current status of WUAs and FWUAs be maintained for the
time being, in order to nurture the community's defacto ownership of irrigation, to isolate WUAs from political
pressure, and to promote self-sustaining irrigation management. Voluntary membership will provide elected
representatives of WUAs/FWUAs with incentives to make the best effort to increase the transparency of their
administration and retain the confidence of members. Results so far are promising. During the 1998 irrigation
season, nearly all irrigation farmers reportedly joined WUAs. However, as a first step in the transition to public
status, a new Irrigation and Drainage Law- (IDL, Section E-6) will be introduced to limit the primary tasks of
WUAs to irrigation and drainage management, and to stipulate the supervisory role of Government.
(ii) Drainage
The project endorses the Government's proposal to keep the responsibility for drainage management in the
public sector, at least for the time being. The institutional setting for drainage is more difficult because of its
character as a public good. While secondary drainage has already been largely assumed by WUAs, it is
debatable whether public sector institutions or beneficiary associations (drainage associations) are best suited to
operation and maintenance of main drainage facilities. Due to non-exclusive externalities (prevention of
flooding, water-borne diseases, and environmental damage) for a large number of heterogeneous beneficiaries
(mountain villagers, city dwellers, and farmers) covering large catchment areas, establishing beneficiary-
managing drainage associations is considered premature at this moment.
To increase efficiency, improve performance, and strengthen monitoring and supervision, the project aims to
support a major realignment of existing state-owned water enterprises towards stakeholder-participating,
decentralized institutions. Simultaneously, the current status of water enterprises as self-financing, autonomous
entities will be converted to that of budgetary agencies, as their major role will be limited to public good
activities for which cost recovery is difficult. Responsibility for implementing drainage investment will be
relegated to the private sector. However, it should be noted that the risks for restructuring water enterprises
are substantially high. The following risks have been identified: (a) continuity in the commitment of the
Government to pursue planned restructuring, (b) ethics and capacity of the current staff at WEs to increase their
performance efficiency, and (c) willingness and interest of beneficiaries to participate in drainage management.
Water Resource Management. The current institutional setup for comprehensive water resource management is still
not fully operational, mainly due to some deficiencies of the water administration body (see Annex 4). Increasing
its efficiency will require a serious and coordinated effort of policy makers, inter-ministerial coordination and
capacity building of staff at more than one ministry. This is considered beyond the scope of the proposed second
project. On the other hand, the proposed project is not expected to increase water use, as it aims only to rehabilitate
deteriorated schemes. In this context, it is estimated that the issues of the water resource sector at large would be
better addressed through a policy dialogue during project implementation. Therefore, in order to keep the proposed
second project relatively simple, the project will focus only on water resource management issues directly affecting
the irrigation and drainage sector-namely, the safety of irrigation dams and the operation of drainage/flood control
systems.



Page 17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned)
Sector issue                            Project              Latest Supervision (Forn 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation     Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
IDA-financed
Ongoing Projects
Rehabilitation of deteriorated irrigation and  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project    HS                 S
drainage facilities
Providing medium-sized credit for agro-industry    Agroprocessing Project           S                  U
Providing access to and from rural villages  Rural Roads Project                    S                  S
Providing rural infrastructure               Community Works Project          Not yet effective    Not yet effective
Rural Development Project              S                  S
Projects Under Preparation
Providing agricultural support to private farmers    Agriculture Services Project (FY
01)
Providing microcredit for poverty targeted groups  Microcredit Project (planned for
FY 99)
Other development agencies
Development of sustainable framework to provide  National Extension Project (the
technical training to private farmers        Government of Netherlands)
Rehabilitation of irrigation canals through  Fier Agriculture Development
extensive participation of farmers           Project (the Government of
Netherlands)
Rehabilitation of deteriorated irrigation and  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
drainage facilities in mountain regions      (IFAD)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in th e project design
Project Design. The Bank's main lessons in irrigation development, learned from experience all over the world,
are: (a) that the sustainability of irrigation requires beneficiary ownership at all stages, from design of irrigation
canals to operation and maintenance, and (b) that sustainability is achieved through transfer of operational
responsibilities for substantial parts of irrigation schemes. In addition, experience in Turkey and Mexico also
suggests that the transfer should occur in a 'big-bang' approach so as to convince farmers that there is no alternative
to self-managing in irrigation. These lessons are fully incorporated into project design at all phases of the project-
from identification of the rehabilitation requirements, to financing civil works, to design and construction
supervision, and final system transfer upon completion (See Section E-8).
Project Implementation.  The proposed second project will base its design on that of the first Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project, which was generally successful. It will include (a) a relatively simple project design
(rehabilitation of physical infrastructure and development of WUAs); (b) use of a specialized PMU to manage the
project; and (c) reliance on the private sector to implement the physical component of the project. In addition, the-
second project will continue extensive training of trainers, who will promote and train WUAs and FWUAs on site.



Page 1 8
4. Indications of borrower and community (beneficiaries) commitment and ownership
Government's Commitment The Government has demonstrated its commitment to restructuring the irrigation and
drainage sector through its implementation of the first project. While the first project originally envisaged modest
onst;tutional development-creation of small village-based WUAs and transfer of tertiary irrigation canals-actual
p-,aogress has been far beyond expectations primarily due to the initiative of the PMU. The development of WUAs is
,vo years ahead of schedule; the transfer of rehabilitated secondary canals has made remarkable progress; the
'iniform water tariffs have been abolished and WUAs now determine their own tariffs; and subsidies to water
enterprises have been reduced according to schedule. In addition, six FWUAs have been established-in Lushnje (3
FWJUAs), Korca, Fier and Laci, as well as a pilot FWUA in Kavaja-and have already taken over the entire
responsibility for operating and maintaining primary irrigation canals and reservoirs. The Government is also
committed to undertaking the restructuring of water enterprises based on a guiding strategy developed in a business
assessment study.
.I'aler Enterprises' Commitment. In the past, water enterprises were generally hostile to water user associations,
partly because of the staff's mentality of dominating farmers (inherited from the socialist era), and partly because of
rheir fear of losing their jobs. However, the situation has changed considerably since the civil turmoil of 1997.
Directors of several water enterprises such as Kavaja and Lushnje have become supportive of FWUAs and WUAs,
%tlving realized that WEs will no longer have the capacity or funding to manage irrigation facilities. These directors
are fully committed to consolidating their tasks to drainage management, and have already completed major
retrenchment (see Footnote 1, page 12). This trend is gaining momentum, as these WEs are joined by others such as
cier. Laci, and Kruja.
C.o munity Commitment. The proposed project adopts a demand-driven approach, and the communities' initiatives
are crucial for successful implementation. In all eight of the subprojects identified for the first phase, WLUAs have
already been formed by water users, and have been assisted by weekly consultations and a series of workshops. As
of January 31, 1999, the number of members has reached the required 50 percent for triggering the start of
rehabilitation works. Detailed information is described in Annex 9.
5, Value added of Bank support in this project
The Bank has been involved in similar irrigation projects all over the world. In the ECA region alone, irrigation
projects have been undertaken in FYR Macedonia, Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan. In these
projects, the Bank has also played an important role to support the development of user groups and restructuring
state-owned irrigation management in similar settings (e.g. transition in agriculture, short history private agriculture,
and small scale land holding). In Albania, the Bank has been assisting the Government's institutional reform
program for the irrigation and drainage sector since 1993, and its support is considered highly effective. The Bank
has provided timely advice on critical policy issues and is closely monitoring the progress of reform. Various
.o -ors, particularly those co-financing the first project, consider the Bank project as the leading vehicle for support
Albania's irrigation and drainage sector, and have already expressed their intentions to continue co-financing for
.,he second project.
v. Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file)
I. Economic (supported by Annex 7)
fxI Cost-Benefit Analysis [] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
Other (Specify)
lr,igation and Drainage Rehabilitation. The proposed project comprises subprojects which undertake inexpensive
and quick repairs (less than US$500 per hectare for primary and secondary rehabilitation) to priority facilities
(mainly gravity-operated), similar to those undertaken during the first project. The proposed rehabilitation works
are also expected to be very cost effective, as they will restore the full operation of irrigation canals that are
cuirrently either defunct or substantially damaged.
in general, the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage schemes will enable farmers to produce a wider range of
crops with better quality, and will eventually lead to a substantial increase in agricultural production through



Page 19
increases in yields and crop intensity. Some irrigation schemes are currently approaching a state of total collapse.
The project will reverse this trend through both physical rehabilitation and participatory irrigation management.
The proposed demand-driven mechanism for the selection of subprojects (including down payments by active
WUAs) will assure the selection of areas where farmers are committed to irrigated agriculture.
A detailed economic analysis has been carried out for each possible subproject identified for the first year of
implementation (results are described in Annex 7). Using rather conservative assumptions on increases in yields
and crop intensity, the economic rate of return (ERR) for these subprojects ranges from 20 to 50 percent.
A sensitivity analysis was conducted in order to assess the sensitivity of the project to such risks as: (a) failure to
achieve full irrigation benefit due to constraints in irrigation technologies; (b) delay in crop intensity increase as
well as delays in conversion to higher value crops due to marketing problems; and (c) increase in rehabilitation costs
due to an increase in either scope of work or unit prices. In addition, the sensitivity of economic viability to the
electricity price was examined using the border price (lek 9 per kwh). The sensitivity analysis indicated that
subproject economic viability is somewhat sensitive to yields, while these subprojects are generally robust against
other risks. Therefore, it is vital to the project's success to provide timely training for farmers to operate irrigation
facilities and to improve their current on-farm management in order to obtain the full benefit from resumed
irrigation services.
2. Financial (supported by Annex 8)
(a)   Farm Model Analysis. The project will benefit about 50,000 small private farming families who typically
have 0.5 to 1.5 hectares of irrigated land. A detailed farm model has been developed for each subproject based on
socio-economic surveys. On average, the proposed project would increase the annual farming income for typical
farming families from about US$414 to US$1,033,4 an increase of more than 150 percent. While the labor
requirement would also increase from about 90 days to 148 days per year due to increased agricultural activity, this
increase is well within the working capacity of an average family (500 person days), and is not considered to be a
major constraint. The net return to labor is expected to increase from $4.6 to $6.9 per day, which is far above
alternative income opportunities in rural Albania'. Annex 8 outlines a sample farm model for KOU-1 and
summarizes the forecasted impact on farming incomes for subprojects proposed for first year implementation.
The farm model analysis also revealed that the project would create decent, remunerated work at a reasonable cost.
The project would provide an additional 20 to 160 days of work per beneficiary household per annum, at a marginal
rate that exceeds those available elsewhere in rural Albania. Creation of so many days of decently remunerated
work per hectare at a capital cost of less than US$500 is roughly equivalent to creation of fuill-time jobs at less than
US$2,500 per job, a small fraction of the cost of job creation in formal employment sectors.
It is also evident that even with the project, the current farm size would be too small to provide an average family
with full-time employment or adequate income to support a four- or five-person household. Even in the with-
project situation, it would be necessary for family members to seek off-farm employment to supplement farming
income. These results can be further improved by intensifying irrigated agriculture over the coming years,
developing higher standards of quality of produce, and improving market access. However, in the end, the land
constraint would cap the contribution of agriculture to Albanian employment and economy, and young people in
particular may have to move into other sectors. Nevertheless, in the interim irrigated agriculture is probably the
most efficient domestic generator of employment, income, and welfare.
(b) Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation
Irrigation. The proposed project will increase the Government's borrowings in the short term, as farmers would
only pay a fraction of the rehabilitation costs (3,000 lek per hectare, about US$22, or 4.5 percent of typical
4 Net of the labor requirement and O&M costs for irrigation.
Most of unskilled construction workers receive 400-500 lek (US$2.8-3.5) per day.



Page 20
rehabilitation costs), and the Government will finance the balance. However, the long-term impact on the
budget would be either neutral or positive, as the project aims to achieve full recovery of operation and
maintenance costs from final beneficiaries (water users) for both primary and secondary irrigation facilities.
Considerable progress has already been made under the first project, mainly through the transfer of secondary
irrigation schemes to WUAs. As primary canals are transferred to FWUAs under the second project, subsidies
to the irrigation sector are expected to be completely phased out, with a few negligible exceptions, such as
technical support and depreciation of equipment rented out from WEs to FWUAs.
Cost Recovery Within WUAs. Collection of fees within the WUAs and FWUAs is critical to the sustainability of
the irrigation and drainage sector. A review of the 1997 data under the first project indicated that the actual cost
recovery rate at the WUA level varies substantially-from 10 to 100 percent-and that most WUAs collected 50
percent of the estimated O&M cost for secondary irrigation canals and deferred the maintenance for the balance.
Due primarily to the collapse of pyramid schemes, many WUAs initially preferred to defer proper maintenance
rather than collect sufficient contributions from their members. The PMU has carried out an extensive campaign
to increase collection within WUAs with positive results; nevertheless, promotion and monitoring should
continue throughout the project implementation period.
Drainage. The project would not take action to nominally reduce existing subsidies to the drainage sector
(US$1.5 million in 1999), because they have already been reduced to minimal levels over the last four years,
during the implementation of the first project. Rather, the proposed second project aims to increase the
efficiency of drainage operations through a variety of initiatives. First, transferring responsibility for irrigation
from water enterprises to FWUAs would result in a reduction in redundant staff and administration costs. The
project would then assist with the re-establishment of state budget subsidies for drainage and flood protection
activities because of their 'public goods' nature. Finally, with the introduction of beneficiary participation in
management boards, internal and external audits, and extensive use of the private sector in investment activities,
it is expected that water enterprises will be transformed into drainage and flood control institutions with
improved efficiency, transparency, and accountability in the use of public funds. This increase in efficiency
would be monitored through various indicators during project implementation (see Section A-3).
(c)   Payment to the State Electric Company (KESH). The project will also aim to help KESH recover electricity fees
from irrigation and drainage facilities. Water enterprises are ranked as the second largest defaulters among budgetary
institutions, and their total arrears amount to nearly 100 million lek (US$700,000) as of August 1998. Preparation of an
Action Plan to clear arrears to KESH is a condition of the effectiveness of the Credit (see Section G-2). The project
will introduce the Following three initiatives for reducing future delinquencies in payments to KESH.
(i) Direct payment from the state budget to KESH. The project will help introduce direct payments from the state
budget to KESH for electricity used for drainage operation. Based on annual estimates of electricity
consumption, the MoAF will directly deposit 50 percent of the estimated electricity cost to KESH's account
prior to each drainage season. KESH will then send a bill (or refund) directly to the MoAF at the end of the
drainage season for the balance, adjusting the actual consumption. This arrangement will prevent water
enterprises from allocating public funds to other purposes and will increase incentives for conserving
electricity. The Government's confirmation to pay directly future electricity bills to KESH in this arrangement
is a condition for Board presentation (see Section G-1).
(ii) Monitoring and supervising WUAs' payments to KESH. As irrigation facilities are transferred to FWUAs
and WUAs, they will become responsible for paying irrigation electricity bills. Under the first project,
extensive campaigns were mounted to advocate the need to pay electricity fees to KESH and sensitize
people to the consequences of delinquency. The project will monitor each WUA's payment to KESH and
will continue to promote their importance. In addition, timely payment to KESH will become an eligibility
condition for post-rehabilitation support.
(iii) Facilitating communication between FWUAs, WUAs and KESH. The project also aims to facilitate -
communication between FWUAs, WUAs and KESH. In the past, the relationship between KESH and farmers
has not always been good. About 300 transformers were reportedly seized by KESH from pumping stations
for its own use during the irrigation off-season, some of which were not returned before the next irrigation



Page 21
season. In protest, farmers refused to pay their electricity bills. To improve this situation, the project will
assist WUAs in preparing draft rental contracts for transformers and will promote negotiations and dialogue
with KESH district offices.
(d)   Flow of Funds. The Ministry of Finance will represent Albania as Borrower for the proposed project, and
the authority for project preparation and implementation will be delegated to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
(MoAF). The project account will be administered by the PMU, which resides in the MoAF. The PMU will be
responsible for monitoring all disbursements to and from the Special Account. Participating WUAs will be
responsible for the collection of their contributions to the capital cost of rehabilitation. These contributions will be
deposited in the WUAs' account from which transfers will be made to the contractor for the payment of the second
interim payment, only after signature of both an authorized representative of the WUAs and an authorized
representative of the PMU.
3. Technical
Rehabilitation Strategy. The proposed project will adopt the first project's strategy of maximizing the area capable
of receiving irrigation water. This strategy was validated during implementation of the first project, as reflected by
farmers' commitment to managing primary and secondary facilities through their WUAs, and by the financially
supported demand from other regions for similar rehabilitation under the proposed second project.
The basic design of most irrigation and drainage schemes in Albania is technically adequate, considering the current
intensity of irrigation and technical capacity. Most irrigation schemes are also economically viable, as they are
gravity-based canal distribution systems and, unlike other eastern European countries, very few schemes have a
high pumping head. The project's proposed rehabilitation works include the rehabilitation of canals and pumping
stations, in particular, repair and replacement of lining, replacement or repair of defunct pumps, and construction of
water control structures.
Any improvements in the systems will therefore be limited to inexpensive and technically sustainable engineering
works. New lining will be limited to sections which can be technically justified, and the primary focus will be to
improve measurement and control structures tested by the first project, such as long-crested weirs for level control,
and flumes or weirs for flow measurement at each primary canal outlet.
Dam Safety. A dam safety review was carried out by an intemational dam specialist for 14 small and medium-sized
irrigation reservoirs (storage capacity of 120,000 to 4.6 million cubic meters,6 heights of 7 to 30 meters, see Annex
2.2) that service the possible subprojects identified for the proposed project. The review indicated that all dams will
require some remedial works due to neglected maintenance over the past 20 years. These remedial works will
typically include embankment stabilization, crest raising, erosion protection, spillway repairs or enlargement, and
repairs to outlets. The total cost for these works is estimated at $1.5 million for these 14 reservoirs and would be
financed under the project. A similar review would be carried out for all subprojects to be financed under the
proposed project, and identified repair works would be executed. There are three large power dams on the Drin
River, upstream of the outlet for the SHU-4 irrigation scheme. Under an EBRD-financed project, repair works
would be carried out and monitoring improved to satisfy the intemational safety standards.
The project will also assist in developing an institutional and legal framework for strengthening dam safety and
protecting the populations near and downstream of dams. The project would first support technical assistance to
help amend the Water Resource Law and prepare associated detailed regulations to stipulate the institutional
framework for dam safety. Then the project will assist in implementing the revised law by: (a) training a cadre of
engineers in dam safety inspection procedures, and (b) providing equipment for a central register of dams.
6 The exception is the Gjanc Reservoir, which stores 17 million cubic meters (29 meter high). The reservoir has been identified
as requiring no major repair works for safety.



Page 22
4. Institutional
The proposed project would aim to develop a sustainable institutional framework for the irrigation and drainage
sector as summarized below.
(a)   Water User Associations (WUAs) and Federations of WUAs (FWUAs). As stated in Sections B-3 and B-4, the
project would aim to develop and strengthen WUAs and FWUAs, which will eventually take over secondary and
primary irrigation facilities respectively. WUAs, having a voluntary and private status, are established by the
Irrigation and Drainage Law (IDL) as well as by their own statutes. WUAs are open to all farmers located in the
command areas of secondary canals. Members (water users) directly elect two to three representatives from each of
their villages, who will jointly form the administrative council of a WUA. Typically a WUA, is established on a
hydrological basis and comprises 10-20 villages. The WUA administrative council appoints a chairman, a financial
controller, and a general secretary. The administrative council has the authority to recall (replace) their appointed
chairman, financial controller, and general secretary by majority vote. FWUAs are established in a similar way-
each WUA appoints three representatives as members of the administrative council, which in turn appoints the
chairman, financial controller, and general secretary of the FWUA. Typically, a WUA covers 300 to 1,000 hectares
(average 500 hectares), comprising some 500 to 1,500 member families. In contrast, an FWUA covers 8,000 to
10,000 hectares, comprising 5 to 15 WUAs.
Several issues have been revealed from surveys of WUA capacity carried out during both the 1997 and 1998
irrigation seasons. On the positive side, a large majority of farmers trust WUAs and feel that WUAs have done
better than water enterprises. Farmers also appear to be satisfied with the management of WUAs (86 percent
expressed satisfaction) and with their own participation in them (89 percent satisfied). The level of active
participation of farmers in WUAs is impressive-98 percent of approximately 500 farmers interviewed participated
in at least one meeting of their WUA, and on average participated in 2.6 meetings during the year. The majority of
farmers (92 percent) also have found transfer of rehabilitated canals positive. More than 80 percent of farners are
satisfied with the distribution of water by their WUA in rehabilitated areas whereas outside the project area only
some 60 percent of farmers expressed satisfaction.
While there are certain positive achievements, WUAs and FWUAs have yet to prove their sustainability. Cost
recovery among their members is currently not sufficient to ensure financial sustainability, as many WUAs are
simply deferring maintenance until several years after rehabilitation.  Some WUAs suffer from  political
interference, causing internal politicking within WUAs. FWUAs are also having difficulties in coordinating water
demands from WUAs in the absence of measurement structures.
In order to increase the sustainability of WIUAs, the focus of technical assistance would be shifted from project
administration matters to technical support of WUAs and FWUAs on a wider range of issues, such as public
administration, design of irrigation schemes, irrigation management, on-farm management, advanced production
techniques such as fish-farming, and overseas study tours, in collaboration with a team of international consultants.
A technical assistance program is outlined in the project implementation plan, and a detailed overseas training
curriculum would be developed during the first year of implementation in collaboration with other bilateral donors.
Performance of WUAs would be monitored annually during project implementation, possibly in collaboration with
local NGOs, As a means of introducing performance incentives, the project would annually finance small
improvements (up to US$5,000) for well-performing FWUAs and WUAs, determined by their needs and demands.
These items would include minor equipment, construction materials for small works (e.g., tertiary canal
improvements, small portable irrigation pumps, office rehabilitation), and demonstration programs for advanced
agricultural production.
(b)   Water Enterprises (WEs). There are 38 state-owned, district-based WEs throughout the country. Their tasks
include: (a) operation and maintenance of all irrigation facilities at the primary and secondary level, including
distribution of primary and secondary irrigation water, and collection of water fees from users; (b) operation and
maintenance of drainage facilities; (c) flood control and erosion protection; and (d) rehabilitation and new
construction of irrigation and drainage facilities (design and implementation). However, under the first project,
responsibilities for irrigation ((a) above) are gradually being transferred to WUAs and FWUAs, and the focus of
WEs is shifting to drainage management. WEs are also allowed to rent out their excavators to the private sector
when these excavators are not needed.



Page 23
As part of project preparation, a study has been carried out to assess the current performance of the seven water
enterprises within the first project area, with the aim of developing guiding principles for their restructuring. The
following is a summary of the study.
* Performance. WEs have failed to perform irrigation tasks satisfactorily, and their performance in drainage and
erosion control is barely acceptable. Their performance in implementation of civil works (rehabilitation and
new construction) is also questionable, and this function should be transferred to the private sector. WEs also
poorly control and maintain their equipment. As a consequence, most WE heavy machinery is obsolete and
inoperable, except those few that were recently purchased under IDA financed projects (Critical Imports Project
and First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project). Log books for heavy machinery are not properly completed, and
WE managers often cannot locate their own machinery. Cases have been reported where these machines
routinely dig gravel for private purposes. As WEs would not have sufficient funds to properly maintain these
machines, they will soon be out of use if current conditions continue.
*  Funding. Water enterprises are funded chiefly under the state budget, and they operate as a defacto budgetary
agency. The state budget accounts for more than 90 percent of the funding to WEs. Typically this occurs
because WEs fail to collect water fees from farmers. In 1998, the total budget allocated to WEs was 570
million lek (US$4 million equivalent), comprising the following four components: (a) expenditures for salaries
and pensions (170 million lek); (b) drainage funds (130 million lek); (c) construction and rehabilitation of
irrigation and drainage works (220 million lek); and (d) erosion protection and other environmental restoration
works (50 million lek).
-  Accounts. Accounting information is not well maintained, and internal and external auditing are almost non-
existent. Most WEs are experiencing serious financial crises-debt is accumulating, particularly to Social
Insurance Funds (100 million lek in total), and KESH (100 million lek in total). Staffsalaries of some WEs are
also reportedly in arrears.
=  Workforces. The total number of WE staff has been reduced from 1900 in 1994, to 588 in 1998, implying a 20
percent reduction in staff each year. This reduction is due mainly to the transfer of irrigation facilities to WUAs
and FWUAs, and to the collapse of the heavy machinery workshops. Most of the remaining staff, while
qualified in their own specialties (e.g., finance, agronomy, irrigation, civil engineering, etc.) do not have any
computer skills or foreign language abilities.
Based on these findings, a restructuring implementation plan would be developed during the first phase of project
implementation, and a training program for the remaining WE staff would be provided.
Project Management. The proposed second project would be implemented by the Project Management Unit
established for the first Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (PMU). The PMU is staffed by 16 specialized and trained
professionals, and has been very effective in all aspects of project management, including engineering reviews,
procurement, WUA support, and financial management.
*  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Monitoring and evaluation is one of the most difficult ta!sks under the
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP, the first project). This is due largely to the total absence of reliable
macro level statistics. While the PMU made concerted efforts to establish an appropriate sampling framework
and monitor project impacts through questionnaires and direct interviews with farmers, security problems,
particularly during 1997, hindered PMU staff in carrying out interviews with farmers and collecting
questionnaires. Simple agronomic data such as yield, irrigation intensity, and cropping pattern and intensity
vary greatly from farmer to farmer, and have been found to be very difficult to reconcile. In addition, data on
irrigation intensity and payment to WUAs is often erratic, as farmers do not necessarily report unpaid irrigation
and tend to overstate their payments to WUAs. In order to meet the monitoring requirement under the
proposed second project, the PMU has already started to strengthen its M&E capacity - two staff have been
appointed to carry out M&E exclusively, and a workshop will be organized during the project launch planned
for May/June 1999. In addition, NGOs will be used for carrying out interviews and collecting questionnaires in
order to maintain the neutrality of M&E.
*  Financial Management. The PMU, along with its Accounting Unit, has demonstrated its capacity to perform
financial management. Its staff have been trained in basic accounting and in World Bank disbursement and



Page 24
procurement procedures, and are highly motivated. It has a reasonable system of internal controls, and its filing
system is well organized and comprehensive. There is, however, considerable scope for improvement in areas
such as accounting software, reports for monitoring project progress, the operational manual, and back-up
procedures for computer files. These issues are currently being addressed. A new, fully integrated accounting
software has been purchased to improve efficiency and automatically generate the necessary Project
Management Reports (PMRs). A revised financial manual will be submitted for the Bank's review before the
project's first supervision mission. Also, the PMU's internal control mechanisms will be upgraded to improve
back-up procedures for computer data files.
Financial management at the PMU meets the minimum requirements of the World Bank, and the PMU is ready
to implement the follow-on project. However, the project is not ready for PMR-based disbursement, and will
disburse using traditional methods. In the past financial management relied heavily on expatriate experts, and
even though they trained PMU staff in each department, the skills and level of experience in some may not be
comparable. Therefore, it is essential for the PMU to have updated and effective tools for managing the
projects. The first phase installation and satisfactory operation of the new automated accounting system is
required before the loan becomes effective.
5. Social
The proposed project will directly benefit small farmers within the project area. Reliable irrigation water will
substantially increase agricultural output and will help farmers transition from subsistence agriculture to competitive
and commercial activities. The project is also expected to free time currently used to carry irrigation water, which
can then be converted into other useful activities, particularly among women. In addition, the project offers
temporary employment during the construction period, as most rehabilitation works are labor intensive, and rely
heavily on laborers from neighborhood villages.
The major social objective of the project is to strengthen user-controlled water user associations (WUAs), which
will democratically operate and manage irrigation facilities that are typically shared by 500 families on the
secondary canal level, and are often shared by more than 10,000 families at the primary canal level. Membership in
WUAs is open to all irrigation users, and each user has equal voting rights in the election of management and
decision making (e.g., water allocation).7 Therefore WUAs will benefit small farmers by providing opportunities to
democratically achieve equity and transparency in water allocation and member contributions. Experience from the
first project indicates that a large majority of irrigation farmers saw improvement in water allocation by WUAs and
that they often use WUAs as non-partisan forums for discussing other social issues of common interest. A social
survey indicated that the exclusion of landless or female-headed families is not an issue for this project.
It is vital that WUAs maintain political neutrality and sustain the confidence of their members. Since 1997, the
PMU has been monitoring the elections of WUAs in order to shield them from political intervention. Similar efforts
will be continued under the second project to prevent any political intervention and to ensure transparency in the
administration of WUAs, particularly in financial management.
Other social issues considered during project preparation are summarized below.
*  Affordability. The affordability of beneficiaries' monetary contributions to the project is a social issue. An
estimate suggests that most farming families are in a position to contribute about 20 percent of the rehabilitation
costs for secondary infrastructure, or about USS20-30 per hectare. This represents less than 10 percent of the
value of the potential annual incremental agricultural output with the project.
*   Equity. Equitable access to irrigation water is becoming a major issue, as farmers gradually resume irrigated
agriculture upon rehabilitation. Disputes among WUAs are becoming more and more serious, and it would
indeed become a major issue that threatens the sustainability of FWUAs, and thus the entire irrigation scheme.
7 Equal voting rights versus voting quotas depending on the size of land holding is indeed a debatable issue. In Albania, the
decision is up to each WUA, and all WUAs have so far been adopting equal voting rights.



Page 25
The project will help ensure equity among WUAs by installing measurement structures at each primary canal
outlet, and by providing extensive training on irrigation management and measurement. Social analysis also
revealed that equity between upstream and downstream farmers is also becoming an issue, and the allocation of
water will be monitored during project implementation.
* Gender. Women play an integral role in irrigated agriculture in Albania, and the involvement of women in the
project is important to its success. Under the first project, a series of awareness campaigns were carried out on
the role of women in agriculture to encourage women's participation in WUA activities. While this effort has
resulted in a increase in women's participation in WUA management (currently about 40 WUAs have at least
one female board member), specific project impacts on women, such as an increase in hours of work, should be
monitored during the proposed second project. Particular emphasis will be placed on impacts experienced by
farming families headed by women (with male family members working abroad). Under the project two
FWUAs that already have at least one female board member have been selected to develop an informal
women's group as a contact point to monitor the impact of the project and develop a technical assistance
program based on their opinions and demands.
6. Legal
During project preparation the project team reviewed the current legal framework including the Water Resources
Law (WRL), the Irrigation and Drainage Law (IDL), the Law on Environmental Protection, relevant land
legislation, and model bylaws for WUAs.
Water Resources Law (WRL). The WRL is a framework law, which seeks to establish institutional arrangements for
water management and regulate all aspects of the use of Albania's waters as a single resource. While the WRL
itself is basically a sound piece of legislation, it is at present largely un-implemented. Indeed, it appears that the
implementation of the WRL will be extremely difficult under the current inter-ministerial arrangements. While this
poses no immediate threat to the proposed project, failure to implement the WRL may have long-term consequences
for water use, particularly when farmers begin to irrigate more of their land and shift to high value crops that require
more water. Therefore the overall use of water in each river basin will be monitored during project implementation
and, if necessary, recommendations will be made to take further action such as monitoring water flows, streamlining
the institutional framework to improve the implementation of the WRL, and developing the legal basis for the use of
water by WUAs and FWUAs.
Irrigation and Drainage Law (IDL). The IDL purports to establish the legal and institutional framework for the
irrigation and drainage sectors, as well the establishment and operation of WUAs and FWUAs. The pace of recent
reforms in these sectors is such that the IDL is now outdated. The IDL also depends heavily on the use of
subsidiary regulations, which create important substantive rights of the type which should ordinarily be set out in
primary legislation. Finally, a number of important issues are not currently addressed in the existing legal
framework, which is also not particularly clear. In view of the importance to the proposed project of having a clear
and comprehensive legal framework, a new draft law 'On Irrigation and Drainage' has been prepared during the
project preparation. The following is a summary of the features of the draft. Adoption of the New Law by the
Parliament is a condition for the effectiveness of the credit (Section G-2).
*   WUAs and FWUAs. The new law will create a stronger legal basis for the establishment and operation of both
WUAs and FWUAs, and will more clearly specify the scope of their permitted activities. It will also, inter alia:
(a) grant the necessary powers to the MoAF to undertake legal and technical supervision of both WUAs and
FWUAs; (b) require WUAs and FWUAs to maintain accounts, which will be subject to audits, and will contain
other measures to promote transparency; and (c) clearly set out the rights and duties of WUA and FWUA
members.
*   WEs and the Drainage Sector. The project preparation team has been unable to ascertain the precise legal
status of WEs, which were established during the socialist era. On the information available it appears that they-
may have an anomalous status under Albanian law. The long-term objective for the drainage and flood defense
sectors is to establish Drainage Boards through which drainage beneficiaries will be responsible for the costs of
drainage and flood defense, the collection of drainage fees, and the execution of works. As a first step towards



Page 26
this objective and to promote transparency in the operation of WEs, the new draft law on 'Irrigation and
Drainage' provides for the establishment of Drainage Boards that will initially have a relatively limited role,
namely overseeing the operation of WEs. Specifically, they will have the legal right to monitor WEs' annual
accounts, proposed budgets, work-plans, and staffing levels, and to make recommendations to MoAF. The
local District Departments of the MoAF, WUAs, local governments, and municipalities would be represented
on the Drainage Boards, as well as the National Water Council and National Environment Agency. The draft
law has been prepared in such a way that in the future additional tasks could be assigned to the Drainage Boards
which would eventually become largely autonomous.
Land Tenure and Land Use. Most agricultural land has now been distributed under Albania's land reform process,
titling is complete, and with the necessary legal framework in place for the establishment of a land market, the
buying, selling and leasing of agricultural land is now a reality. In addition, new planning and land use legislation
has recently been enacted. The main threat to the proposed project concerning land use relates to the illegal
construction of buildings next to, and even over, irrigation and drainage canals. New legislation is not required,
only better enforcement of the existing legislation. In some places land has been distributed in such a way that
access to canals, as well as to individual plots of land, is difficult or impossible. However, the civil code and land
registration legislation do contain adequate provisions for the creation and registration of servitudes. The project
aims to sensitize farmers to the concept of right-of-way, and the need for access to the canals through WUAs.
7. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category  I I A   [ Xi B  I I C
The project will be concerned wholly with rehabilitation of substantially deteriorated irrigation and drainage
schemes, most of which are 20 to 40 years old. There are consequently a number of positive impacts of the project,
including reducing the incidence of water logging and salinity, and improving social and economic equity. The
rehabilitation works would also re-establish the flow of drainage water in blocked and stagnant drains, and thereby
reduce public health risks.
(a)  General Environmental Issues. An environmental review was carried out for each proposed rehabilitation
scheme to be implemented in the first phase of the project to assess the environmental impact of the rehabilitation of
irrigation and drainage schemes. The reviews generally identified no serious negative environmental impacts
arising from the project, including the drainage works (except Schemes LUU-2 and LUK-5 summarized below).
However, it did indicate localized erosion and flash run-off as a potential environmental threat to the sustainability
of the rehabilitated schemes. Overgrazing of uphill areas and clear-cutting of forests since 1991 have resulted in
excessive run-off into irrigation and drainage schemes and sedimentation of reservoirs, canals, and river beds. To
mitigate this impact community forests could be developed in uphill regions. The project would support the
Government's initiatives to develop such forests through participation of water user associations (which comprise
both uphill lands and irrigated plains) under the Pilot Micro-Watershed Management Suhcomponent. Three pilot
WUAs would be selected during the first year of implementation, based on the urgency of action and commitment
of farners.
Specific Issues in the Karavasta Watershed  During project preparation, schemes LUU-2 (Divijka) and LUK-5
(Terbuf) covering some 2,500 hectares and 6,500 hectares, respectively, have been identified as possible subprojects
for rehabilitation based on the strong request and financial commitment from farmers. However, the rehabilitation
of these schemes has been found to have potential negative environmental impacts on the adjacent Karavasta
Lagoons as a result of an increase in agrochemical run-offs.
8Karavasta Lagoon.  Karavasta Lagoon, covering some 4,800 hectares, is the last remaining wetland after reclamation in the
1 960s of a much more extensive swamp land, where the extensive irrigation and drainage systems of Lushnje District now exist.
Because of similar reclamation along the coast it is now the last remaining significant coastal wetland remaining to Albania. It
contains the only coastal breeding population of Dalmatian Pelicans along the Adriatic and Ionian Seas. It is also host to several
resident and migratory species including many that are globally-threatened, including pygmy cormorant, white headed duck,
little tern, and raptorial birds such as the spotted eagle, white tailed eagle and booted and short-tailed eagles. Herman tortoises-
and otters are also residents of the lagoon and its surrounds.
Albania designated Karavasta Lagoon and the adjacent Divjaka National Park its first Ramsar site in 1994, under Decision 413
of the Albanian Council of Ministers. Under the Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP), it plans to establish the



Page 27
Agricultural production in the adjacent area has long predated the Ramsar designation, and irrigation and drainage
schemes have been in use since early 1970. In addition, the entire command area, except the small areas designated
to the Divijka National Park, was privatized to the edge of the Lagoon in 1991-1992. Agriculture is the main source
of income for the communities surrounding the Lagoon.
Existing agricultural practices (such as using wells for intensive irrigated agriculture, and overgrazing the edge of
the lagoon) were observed to be detrimental to the long-term  conservation of the Lagoon.  Enforcement of
environmental regulations was also found to be minimal-while part of the area has been designated as a National
Park (Divijka), illegal activities such as logging, construction, fishing and hunting are rampant even within the
national park, and are becoming a major threat to the sustainability of biodiversity in the Lagoon. It should be noted
that the populations of endangered species have decreased significantly over the last 10 years, when irrigation and
drainage schemes were largely defunct, and that the immediate and extreme hazard is from community residents'
poaching activities for their own survival. Irrigation and drainage may have long-term environmental impacts O0l
the lagoon. The studies carried out under EU Phare also revealed that siltation of man-made channels, which are
critical to maintaining the ecology of the lagoon, are due to natural river flows and have nothing to do with the
irrigation and drainage schemes.
A preliminary environmental assessment indicated that the proposed rehabilitation works would probably have
positive impacts on the lagoon. It would increase incomes of the local population, so reduce dependence on the
lagoon's resources. It would stop farmers from extracting ground water. In addition, rehabilitation works would
provide an opportunity for farmers to self-enforce appropriate mitigation measures such as water quality
monitoring, restricted use of agrochemicals, and possibly establishment of a buffer zone around the edge of the
lagoon.
A series of meetings inviting various stakeholders including farmers, local government officials, officials from
NEA, and local NGOs, indicated that the communities view rehabilitation as crucial not only for the economic
development of the area, but also for the eventual conservation of the lagoon. In this context, the rehabilitation of
the LUU-2 and LUK-5 schemes would be proposed with strong community initiatives. As a first step, a community
based association (Karavasta Stakeholder Association), comprising representatives from district and municipal
governments, WUAs, fishermen's cooperatives, local NGOs, directors of water enterprises, the Lushnje regional
offices for the Forestry and Agriculture Departments, has been established as a main community counterpart for [he
project.
Under the Stakeholders Association's initiatives, a rehabilitation plan for LUU-2 and LUK-5 would be developed
with assistance from international consultants. The plan would set out details of the rehabilitation works,
environmental assessment, and mitigation measures. As some mitigation measures may require restrictions on the
use of private land (establishment of buffer zones, restrictions on the use of certain agrochemicals), the Stakeholders
Association is expected to take a leading role in organizing public consultation meetings and getting consensus
among land holders. The rehabilitation plan would then be sent to the National Environmental Agency for review
and approval, and would then be submitted to IDA for final approval. This approach would provide IDA with ar.
explicit exit strategy from the rehabilitation of these schemes if progress is unsatisfactory.
Regardless of the inclusion of rehabilitation work in LUU-2 and LUK-5, safety works will be carried out at four
reservoirs involved in LUU-2 (see Annex 2, Attachment 1). The proposed safety works including crest repairs,
embankment stabilization, erosion protection, and spillway repairs, are deemed necessary for protecting human lives
downstream, and would have no appreciable negative environmental impacts.
Karavasta National Park comprising the Karavasta Lagoon, existing Divijka National Park, and adjacent coast line. While th-
command areas of irrigation schemes LUU-2 and LUK-5 are not located within the area proposed for the Karavasta Nationai
Park, about 1,000 hectares of the LUU-2 command area would be designated as a buffer zone under the current park proposal.



Page 28
(b)   Minor concerns will be addressed by the project. Irrigation water quality at its source is not expected to
present difficulties in general; however, there are some subprojects where current drainage water is found to have
high enough salinity to contaminate soil downstream.  While the level of salinity may decrease with the
rehabilitation of drainage schemes, the review proposes measures for several subprojects including periodic
monztoring of water quality at certain points and improved operational procedures. A separate mitigation plan for
each scheme has been developed and is attached as Annex 1 of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
A longer-term potential environmental impact would be an increase in the concentration of agrochemicals in
drainage water due to the resumption of intensive agricultural production. However, this potential impact is not
likely to be substantial since the use of fertilizers and other chemicals is currently very low, and their use in the
future would be constrained under liberalized prices and privatized land. A survey on the use of agrochemicals
under the first project clearly verifies the low input consumption levels. The monitoring of drainage water quality
proposed under the mitigation plan would include longer-term monitoring of pollutant loads introduced into
drainage water from agrochemical and organic matters.
(c) Environmental category:   [ ]   A      [x ]  B     []    C
(d) Justifcation/Rationale for category rating. The proposed project would exclusively finance rehabilitation and
repairs to damaged irrigation and drainage canals. Any anticipated environmental impacts are expected to be
able to be addressed through appropriate mitigation measures. A number of positive environmental impacts are
also expected from the project, including those stated in the first paragraph of this section.
(e) Proposed actions. Prior to final inclusion of the subprojects, environmental assessments will be carried out (in
compliance with Bank standards and Government requirements) to identify any major environmental issues
resulting from the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage schemes, and to develop appropriate mitigation
measures. These environmental assessments will then be presented at district workshops, to which local
government officials, central and regional offices of the National Environmental Agency (Regional
Environmental Agency, and local NGO staff would be invited. All subprojects would be subject to approval of
the National Environmental Agency and IDA (see Section G-3).
(f) Local groups and NGOs consulted. National Environmental Agency, local governments, water user
associations. Local NGOs including the Ecological Club, Cultural and Environmental Association, Park
protection Association participated in public consultations.
(g) Resettlement
[ Summarize issues below (e.g., resettlement planning, compensation)
[]To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [X ] None
(h) Borrower permission to release EA:   [x ] Yes  [ ] No    []N/A
The EA reports for first phase subprojects have been provided to the Project Information Center. Translated
EAs have been submitted to the resident mission.
(i) Other remarks.
The project would possibly include the following irrigation and drainage schemes which involve international
rivers.
*   Vlore VLU-3. This scheme is located in Vlore District in the southern part of Albania. It covers 1,700 hectares,
and draws water from the Shucica River, a tributary of the Vjose River, which is an international waterway
shared with Greece. The catchment area of the Vjose River is 6,710 square kilometers, with 4,365 square
kilometers in the territory of Albania. The Shucica River joins the Vjose River in Albania after which the
Vjose River proceeds to the Adriatic Sea. Thus, notification of the subproject to Greece can be waived -
according to OP. 7.50, paragraph 7(c), as the Shucica River runs exclusively within the territory of Albania,
which is the lowest riparian, and the proposed rehabilitation works would not cause any appreciable harm to
another state, nor would harm be caused by other state's possible use.



Page 29
* Shkodra SHU-4 and Lezhe LEU-3. These irrigation schemes are located in Shkodra and Lezhe Districts, covers
11,750-and 4,410 hectares respectively, and draws water from the Drin River. The Drin River has a catchment
area of 14,173 square kilometers, of which 5,973 are in the territory of Albania.  The Drin has two
tributaries-the Black Drin and the White Drin. The Black Drin originates in FYR Macedonia and flows into
Albania. The White Drin originates in the Federal Yugoslav Republic, flows into Albania, and meets with the
Black Drin in Albanian territory. The Drin River meets at the outskirts of Shukodra with the Buene River,
which flows from Shukodra Lake (an international lake shared with Albania and the Federal Yugoslav
Republic) to the Adriatic Sea. While there is no ratified agreement on international waterways between Albania
and FYR Macedonia, or between Albania and the Federal Yugoslav Republic, the Government of Albania
informed these two countries on August 17, 1998 about its intention to rehabilitate the irrigation schemes with
an IDA credit, and furnished detailed information and a map on November 7, 1998. The Government of
Albania has so far received no response from these countries.
8. Participatory approaclh
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups.
[x] Name and describe groups, how involved, and what they have influenced.
[ ] Not applicable (describe why participatory approach not applicable with these groups)
During implementation of the first project, the principle of beneficiary participation was developed and formalized.
Currently, design and civil works must be approved by the water user association, in addition to the PMU and the
supervising engineer. Water user associations are responsible for consulting with their members, and should aim to
obtain prior approval at general meetings. Upon completion of rehabilitation, WUAs will take over responsibility
for operation and maintenance of rehabilitated irrigation facilities. This approach has helped to establish farmers'
de-facto ownership of irrigation schemes, has increased the level and standard of maintenance and operation, and
has also reduced the risk of vandalism. Only minimal damage to rehabilitated irrigation and drainage facilities has
been reported, even during the civil unrest of 1997.
The second project would further promote beneficiary participation through the introduction of a demand-driven
approach to subproject selection. Irrigation schemes will be selected for rehabilitation in response to requests from
farmers, who will be required to organize water user associations and jointly make an up-front financial contribution
to rehabilitation costs. In return farmers will participate in rehabilitation planning, design, and construction
supervision, and will eventually take responsibility for O&M upon system transfer. Design and rehabilitation would
not be considered complete without the WUAs' review and approval. WUAs would also be invited to every phase
of procurement, to establish transparency in the process. Consequently, the role of the PMU would be shifted from
planning and implementation to facilitation and monitoring. This demand-driven approach, which also promotes
beneficiary empowerment, will not only ensure the selection of irrigation facilities where farmers are committed to
irrigated agriculture, but will also nurture their sense of ownership and provide incentives to users for providing
proper maintenance of irrigation facilities.
The rehabilitation of irrigation schemes will be carried out according to the process described below. More detailed
procedures are described in the operational manual, adoption of which is a condition for the effectiveness of the
project (Section G-2).
*  Primary Canals and Headworks. Rehabilitation would commence  at the primary canals. Prior to the
rehabilitation of primary canals, water user associations (WUAs) covering entire command areas will be
established on hydrological bases. Each WUA should represent at least 50 percent of the farmers within their
command area and make an explicit rehabilitation agreement with the Government to: (i) immediately take over
maintenance and operational responsibility for secondary canals, (ii) formulate a federation of WUAs within a
year, and (iii) deposit membership fees (e.g., $5 per hectare or per family) to the WUA account to demonstrate
members' willingness to participate in the project and their commitment to irrigated agriculture. Civil works
will start only if all WUAs jointly fulfill these obligations.
*  Secondary Canals. The proposed project would finance the rehabilitation of secondary canals only if WUAs
undertake an agreement with the MoAF to contribute at least 3,000 lek (US$22 equivalent) per hectare for



Page 30
secondary irrigation canals. The rehabilitation would be simple and basic, and farmers would pay extra for
additional lining and bridges. WUAs will then be formally requested to review the design, participate in the
tender evaluation, and inspect construction works.
A series of workshops and preliminary training of farmers has been carried out for each subproject in order to
disseminate the concept of the participatory approach described above among direct stakeholders (local government
officials, farmers, and water enterprise staff), and to ensure understanding of their roles, benefits and obligations in
the proposed project. The response of the beneficiaries has been very positive, and WUAs have already been
established at all subprojects identified for the first year of implementation.
A pilot trial at advanced WUAs is being carried out under the last phase of the first project in order to assess the
practicality of the concept and identify any administrative, social and operational issues. Procedures would be fine-
tuned prior to project launch.
(b) Other key stakeholders.
[x ] Name and describe groups, how involved, and what they have influenced.
[ ] Not applicable (describe why participatory approach not applicable with these groups)
The other main stakeholders in the project are water enterprise staff. As irrigation management transfer progresses,
a major retrenchment of existing staff is inevitable.  Experience from  the first project suggests that such
retrenchment has not caused serious social problems, as most laid-off workers have found jobs in the emerging
construction industry and in farming. In addition, retrenched staff have received a year's severance payments.
Some water masters and engineers have been re-employed by WUAs.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The project aims to provide an appropriate policy and institutional framework for technically,
environmentally and fiscally sustainable irrigation and drainage management. To achieve this, the project will:
*   select the schemes to be rehabilitated where farmers are committed to irrigated agriculture;
-   increase the feeling of ownership of irrigation and drainage facilities among beneficiaries and reduce the risk of
vandalism;
•   establish community (WUA)-based infrastructure management of irrigation and drainage facilities, which
would raise beneficiary willingness to properly and legally maintain and operate transferred irrigation canals,
and encourage full recovery of operation and maintenance cost from beneficiaries;
*   maintain rehabilitation designs and costs at affordable and technically feasible levels; and
*   restructure ailing water enterprises and develop a dependable drainage management institution under the close
supervision of major beneficiaries, including local governments and farrners.



Page 31
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                                               Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "Objective to Goal"
Increase in Agriculture Income
lack of markets for incremental agricultural production    M
inadequate availability of other agricultural inputs  S          Coordination with the Agriculture Services Project
(FY 00) to support WUAs and individual farmers in
parallel (marketing, seeds)
Annex 1, cell "Outputs to Objective"
Failure to Achieve Sustainable and Equitable Use of
Waterfor Agriculture Production
inadequate farmers' interest in participating in the project M   Selection of the rehabilitated area strictly by the
and commitment to irrigated commercial agriculture               farmers' commitment to irrigated agriculture
inadequate capacity of farmers (WUAs) of on-farm and   M         ditto
off-farm irrigation technology
Unreliable water delivery particularly for downstream  S         Provide small funds to well-performing WUAs to
farmers due to constraints in tertiary and on-farm               purchase portable irrigation equipment and/or small
facilities                                                       works for tertiary canals rehabilitation
Failure to develop sufficient WUA and FWUAs capacity  S          Equity. Installation of water measurement structures
to operate and maintain transferred canals                       at each outlet to secondary canals, and support
periodical water measurement
Transparency. Introduction of financial audit on
WUA accounts, participation of PMU staff and local
NGOs in WUA elections.
Technical Capacity. Training, technical support,
equipment, and periodic monitoring of WUA
performance in irrigation management, and provision
of incentives (rewards) to better performing
WUAs/FWUAs.
Financial Capacity. A program of campaigns by
PMU staff and WUA leaders among the rank and
file, stressing the importance of member
contributions to their own WUAs, assisting in
preparing WUA budgets, monitoring the collection
of fees, and providing incentives (rewards) for better
performance.



Page 32
Failure to Reduce Flood Risks
abnormally incremental weather                      M
insufficient technical capacity of the remaining water  S         Training of the remaining water enterprises' staff
enterprises staff                                                 based on the assessment of their capacity
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Secure and politically stable environment           M
Government's continued commitment to restructure    M             Close monitoring of progress on the preparatory
water enterprises                                                 work during the first phase and extensive technical
assistance for implementation of actual restructuring
during the second phase
insufficient capacity of the PMU due to the departure of  M       Training of all PMU staff in project administration;
critical staff                                                    specialized support particularly M&E, financial
management, and planning with expatriate advisors
to establish a strong team
availability of competitive and technically capable  M            Organizing seminars, study tours and workshops to
contractors                                                       sensitize the concept of contracts and disseminate
advanced construction technologies
irrigation facilities destroyed by the vandalism and  S           Selected subproject with farmers financial
uncontrolled urbanization                                         commitment to nurture sense of their own ownership
availability of counterpart funds and co-financing  M             Timely annual review of the needs for the counterpart
funds and continuous discussion with identified
prospective cofinanciers
Overall Risk Rating                                 M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Rehabilitation of Irrigation Scheme LUU-2 and LUK-5. As discussed in Section E-7, the rehabilitation of these
irrigation schemes is controversial, as they are directly adjacent to the Karavasta Lagoon, a Ramsar site, and a
critical natural habitat. However, the rehabilitation works-would likely benefit the conservation of the lagoon by
ending the use of groundwater for irrigation. Rehabilitation works would be used as an incentive for communities
to reduce their unsustainable poaching activities. The increase in agricultural income upon completion of
rehabilitation works would also reduce the pressure on communities to engage in poaching activities.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditionsfor Board Presentation
* Written confirmation from the Government to pay directly the future electricity bill for water enterprises to
KESH (Section E-2c, (i))
2. Conditionsfor Effectiveness
*   Satisfactory installment of computerized project financial management system (Section C-4b (i))
*   Satisfactory preparation of an operational manual for subproject selection (Sections C-2c, E-8a) and project
management (Section C-4b (iv))
*   Satisfactory appointment of an external auditor for project accounting (Section C-4b (iii))



Page 33
* Adoption of the new Irrigation and Drainage Law (Section E-6)
* Preparation of an action plan to settle arrears of the water enterprises to KESH (Section E-2c)
3. Other Conditions
* For all subprojects, review and approval of IDA (Section E-7e).
* Mid-term review to be carried out by April 30, 2002 (Section C-2).
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[x] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): Operational Manual
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
l ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies with all
other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Le
Sector Director:
Country Director:



ANNEX I
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Evaluation          Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                        (Goal to Bank Mission)
*   recovery of agricultural      *   Sectoral GDP              Annual Economic Review (the
production                                                  Government)
Project Development Objective:                                  (PMU)                            (Objective to Goal)
*   Sustainable and Equitable use of  *   crop-wise yield increase  Annual Reports to be prepared by   *   Prices for key agricultural
agriculture production             (20 percent)             PMU based on the information         products remain competitive
*   number of farmers using    furnished by WUAs              *   Other agricultural inputs are
available irrigation water                                   available at competitive prices
and technologies
increasing their farming
income by at least 10
percent (50,000 farmers)
*   conversion to higher value
crops (15 percent of
irrigated areas dedicated to
potatoes and vegetables)
*    gaps between yield in
upstrearn WUAs and
downstream WUAs (less
than 15 percent)
*    percentage of irrigation
canals maintained properly
(90 percent)
.   Reduce flood risks            *   Drainage Operational Cost  Annual Reports to be prepared by
(US$ per hectare) (reduced  PMU based on the information
by 20 percent by the end    furnished by the auditors for Water
of the project)          Enterprises (Drainage Boards) and
*   the number of flood       local government
incidences (reduced by 50
percent by the end of the
project)
Outputs:                                                        (quarterly project management    (Outputs to Objective)
reports, annual reports)
Irrigation Canals Rehabilitated,  *   area returned to irrigation  information to be assembled by the  *   commitment to agriculture
Improved and Operational              (50,000 hectares)          PMU based on the information    *   farmers' knowledge and
(Component I and 3)               *   area returned to drainage  submitted by WUAs and FWUAs         techniques of on and off-farm
(50,000 hectares)         and beneficiaries surveys           irrigation
*   number      of     dams                                   *   Training carried out by trained
rehabilitated (30 dams)                                       WUAs representatives
*   percentage of rehabilitated
area irrigated (70 percent)
*   develop WUAs and restructure
WEs
Participatory and Equitable       *   percentage of rehabilitated
Irrigation Management System



35
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Evaluation          Critical Assumptions
Established and Operational           primary canals being
(Component 2)                         managed by FWUAs within
6 months of rehabilitation                                *   Govemment commitment to
(50 percent)                                                  develop WUAs and restructure
*   percentage of rehabilitated                                   WEs
secondary canals being                                    *   sufficient ethical standards for
managed by WUAs within                                        the remaining WE staff
6 months of rehabilitation
(100 percent)
*   percentage of irrigating
members paying water fee
in full (90 percent)
*   percentage of WUAs
having at least one women
in their boards (50 percent)
*   gaps in access to available
water among WUAs                                          *   WUAs' understanding of
sharing the same primary                                      environmental impact of
canals (less than 20 percent)                                 irrigation
*   level of satisfaction among
WUA members with the
water delivery(60 percent at
the mid-term review, 80
percent at the completion of
the project)
Farmers Training Program Designed   *   number and types of      list of participants
and Operational (Component 2)         training, and number of
participants from
WUAs/FWUAs(150
WUAs representatives
participating in overseas
training courses)
* percentage of
WUAs/FWUAs benefiting
from the training (100
percent)
Water Enterprises Restructured    *   Drainage Board Established  approved statutes
(Component 2)                         (at 7 Districts at the mid-
term review, and 11 at the
completion of the project)
Project Management Unit
Operational (Component 4)         *   preparation of progress
management reports (PMR)
* preparation of subprojects
* preparation of
environmental monitoring
report
*   preparation of annual work
program and irrigation
report
*   satisfactory completion of
annual external audits



36
Narrative Summiy                Key Performance Indicators         Monitoring and Evaluation               Critical Assumptions
Project Components/Subi               Inputs:                           (qutcdrly projct management         (components to outputs)
components:                                                             rports)
information to be assembled by the
PMU
*   System Rehabilitation             *   project cost for each         *   Input expenditure for each      *   availability of counterpart
*   Institutional Development              component (S)                     component (USS million)             funds
*   Technical Studies                 *   rcbbilittion cost per                                             *   government's continued
*   Implementation Suppont                 hectae (S/hectar.)                                                    commitment to restructure
water enterprises
*   secure and politically stable
environment
*   availability of technically
capable and competitive
contractors
*   rehabilitated irrigation
facilities not destroyed by
vandalism or uncontrolled
commercial development
*   key PMU staff retained during
_____________________________   ________________________     __________________________                  t   he duration    of  the   project



37
ANNEX 2
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
COMPONENT 1: SYSTEM REHABILITATION (BASE COST $ 26.69 M)
A. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Irrigation Facilities
The project would rehabilitate deteriorated irrigation systems in response to requests from water users associations,
following the established "demand-driven" principles and procedures., Rehabilitation measures would include re-
sectioning of earth canals, repair and replacement of deteriorated lining, repair .or replacement of damaged control
structures and gates, repair of pump stations, repair or replacement of pumps, motors, control panels and
transformers, grading of access roads to essential system components and repair or replacement of unsafe culverts
and bridges. The basic improvements identified by the Pilot Flow Control studies completed under the first project
would be incorporated in the rehabilitation, including the provision of measurement structures at the head of all
main and secondary canals, the installation of cross-regulators where possible, and the provision of additional
escapes and wasteways. The project would rehabilitate about 50,000 ha at an average base cost of $350 per ha, with
an upper limit established at $500 per ha where extensive repairs to reservoirs and river diversions are necessary.
Descriptions of eight possible subprojects identified for the first phase of rehabilitation is provided in Attachment 1
to this Annex.
B. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Flood Control and Drainage Facilities
The project would rehabilitate deteriorated large-scale drainage systems and flood control mechanisms, to be
identified by the MoAF during project implementation. Rehabilitation measures would include re-sectioning of
drains; repair of pumpstations; repair or replacement of pumps, motors, control panels and transformers; grading of
access roads to essential system components; and repair or replacement of unsafe culverts and bridges. The project
would rehabilitate about 50,000 ha at an average base cost of $65per ha, with an upper limit established at $200 per
ha where extensive repairs to drainage pumpstations are necessary.
C Rehabilitation of Irrigation Reservoirs and Headworks
The project would also finance safety and rehabilitation works for all reservoirs to be involved in the subprojects.
These dams would be subject to a safety inspection by a suitably qualified intemational dam safety specialist, and
essential safety repairs would be executed before commencement of rehabilitation. Such safety and rehabilitation
works would include: stabilization of embankment, crest raising, erosion protection, spillway repairs or enlargement,
and repairs for the outlets. The works are typically small-scale, and will be confined to existing reservoirs. The list
of the dams to be included in the first phase subprojects are provided as Attachment 2 to this Annex.
D. Design and Supervision
Contracts would be let to private consulting engineers for (a) field surveys and design; and (b) for supervision of
construction. The contracts would be based on those developed under the first project, and estimated costs are 4%
for survey and design, and 3% for construction supervision. These contracts would be financed exclusively by
counterpart funds, and would be procured competitively under the Albanian procurement laws and regulations.
COMPONENT 2: INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT (COST $2.46 M)
This component will continue support provided under the first project for the development of a sustainable irrigation
sub-sector by: (a) strengthening and expanding the transfer of irrigation management to WUAs and FWUAs; (b)
providing support for the restructuring of water enterprises into more sustainable institutions responsive to their
users, and (c) providing support to the construction industry to encourage better contract practices and construction
quality. Details of these sub-components are summarized below:
A. Support for WUAs and FWUAs
Under this sub-component the project will implement two initiatives:
i. Establishment of WUA supervision unit in the PMU: The project proposes to support modifications in the
regulations governing WUAs and FWUAs which will stipulate an annual financial and technical audit of WUAs and-
FWUAs, and this responsibility will be assigned to the Ministry of Agriculture, and delegated to the PMU. This
project sub-component will support the formation and functioning of a WUA Supervision Unit in the PMU



38
containing two national staff. Technical assistance (including Iman months (MM) financial analyst, IMM Irrigation
O&M specialist and IMM GIS specialist) will be engaged to support two national staff, in order to (a) recommend
appropriate audit procedures; (b) prepare operational manuals, and (c) provide training for national staff in these
procedures.
ii. Technical Support to WUA and FWUAS: The project will provide a broad spectrum of support for WUAs and
FWUAs through a comprehensive package of international and national technical assistance, equipment and
training. International experience will be provided by a total of 21 man months of specialists, including:
*  Institutional (4MM), legal (IMM) and financial (2MM) specialists to strengthen legal status of WUAs, and to
improve and develop internal management of the WUAs;
*  Irrigation specialist (4MM) to assist WUAs and federations improve their distribution of water, particularly to
promote an equitable distribution of water resources to all members;
*  Aquaculture specialist (3MM), agronomist (3MM) to develop improved economic activities on a pilot basis in
selected WUAs;
*  Gender specialist (1MM) to continue the first project program of full participation and integration of women
into WUA affairs;
•  GIS specialist (IMM) to develop improved mapping in support of the monitoring program organized by the
M&E specialist (2MM).
The above technical assistants/specialists would work with PMU staff, national specialists (32MM) and a field team
comprising district Coordinators and NGOs. The project would provide training, study tours and workshops,
covering irrigation management and modem application techniques, study tours to selected European countries and
training for trainers. The details of the program would be developed during the project implementation based on the
needs of WUAs and FWUAs.
Communications and transport (motor cycles) would be provided to support FWUAs who undertake operational
responsibilities for primary canals. Additional goods and equipment would be provided to WUAs whose
performance meets certain standards, and would include: office equipment, materials (cement and bricks) toward
office construction, motorcycles, irrigation pumps, water measurement equipment and specialist equipment for pilot
demonstrations.
B. Supportfor Water Enterprise Restructuring
The project will support restructuring of the Water Enterprises which have been withdrawing from irrigation
functions, by transferring operational responsibilities for secondary and primary irrigation canals, allowing them to
focus operations on drainage and flood control. Two sub-components are proposed, covering development of a
restructuring plan and then support in implementation of the plan.
i. Development of a Restructuring Plan, Legislation and Regulations: The project will support restructuring of
water enterprises by providing legal assistance to MoAF as well as other technical assistance staff to aid with the
development of internal statutes for drainage boards. The following international staff will be provided: Legal
Specialist (2MM), Public Institutions Specialist (1.5MM), Financial Analyst (0.5MM) and Dam Safety Specialist
(L.MM). An additional input of IMM from the Dam Safety Specialist is proposed to provide training for Albanian
dam specialists in safety regulations, procedures and record keeping. An overseas study tour will be organized to
expose Albanian dam safety inspectors to international practice. This component will also cover the supply of
necessary equipment, to facilitate a national registry of dam records.
ii. Implementation Support for Water Enterprises: The project will support restructuring of the water enterprises in
the seven districts of the first project area. Training will be provided for drainage board (WE) staff by an
international team, comprising: a Financial Specialist (IMM) to train staff in financial management and accounting
procedures; a Drainage Engineer (2MM) and Environmentalist (1MM) to train technical staff in optimal drainage
operation and maintenance; and a GIS Specialist to establish arrangements for identification and mapping of
beneficiaries. An overseas study tour will be organized to expose Albanian drainage board staff to international
practice. The project will fund purchase of equipment for office use (computers), GIS/cadastral mapping, salinity
and discharge monitoring.



39
C. Supportfor the Construction Industry
The proposed project will build on the efforts of the first project to improve the quality of construction, and maintain
pressure for improvements both in supervision capability and in construction management by contractors. The
project will organize workshops for contractors, supervisors and PMU staff. At these workshops the project's
requirements for improvements in key areas, such as concrete quality and earthfill compaction, will be explained,
together with the fundamental principles of civil works contracts (e.g. obligations under contracts, remedies, duties
of the supervisors). An international Construction Management Specialist (1.5MM) will manage the workshops.
The project will organize two overseas study tours to European construction sites to observe modem supervision
procedures in practice.
COMPONENT 3: TECHNICAL STUDIES (COST $0.57 M)
A. Improved Irrigation Technologies
i. Improved Gate Design and Specification: The project will develop improved gate designs and specifications for
standard irrigation canal control structures to correct the weakness of current Albanian standards, improving both
operational efficiency and durability. An international Irrigation Engineer (0.75MM) and a Mechanical Engineer
(0.25MM) will provide the essential international gate design experience, and national engineers (mechanical and
civil (IOMM)) will develop the appropriate detailed standard designs and specification. These standards will be
incorporated in all subsequent rehabilitation contracts, and will be made widely available - to both water user
associations and the private sector.
ii. Improved Pump Station Design and Specification: The project will develop improved pump station designs and
specifications to provide an alternative to current Albanian standards. These improved designs would take
advantage of the opportunities for more efficient and economical pumps, as well as for more simple and cost-
effective housing structures. An international Mechanical and Electrical Engineer (1.5MM) will provide the
essential international experience, and national engineers (mechanical, electrical and civil (6MM)) will develop the
appropriate detailed standard designs and specifications. These standards will be incorporated in all subsequent
rehabilitation contracts, and will be made widely available - to both water user associations and the private sector.
iii. Development of Design Manuals: The project will build on, and refine the design manual produced with the
assistance of consultants under the first project. The first manual is in some respects incomplete, and some sections
are obsolete. An international Irrigation Engineer (2MM) would review the manual, identify redundancies and
inadequacies and assist a national Design Engineer (3MM) to upgrade it into a useful tool for designers to follow on
the proposed project, and in the future.
iv. Development of Irrigation O&MManuals: The project would build on the operational manual prepared with the
assistance of consultants under the first project, concentrating on practical simple instructions for irrigation
management within a WUA. This manual is intended to guide non-technical WUA staff. Additionally, the project
would prepare, in cooperation with FWUA staff, site-specific manuals to guide FWUA staff on (a) management of
their water resource (often more than one source) and (b) in distributing these resources equitably to the member
WUAs. An international Irrigation Engineer (2MM) would direct the study with assistance from a national
specialist (3MM).
v. Drainage Sector Study: Once initial water enterprise reforms are accomplished, a study will be commissioned to
set out the options and program for further transformation of the water enterprises into fully developed drainage
boards. A combined international (5MM) and national (15MM) team will be recruited for this study.
vi. Annual Dam Inspections: Full safety inspections by an international specialist, as well as the identified repairs,
will be completed for all dams serving sub-projects that are rehabilitated under the project. Each year thereafter
these dams will require an annual safety review, which will be conducted by national specialists trained under
project Component 2B. Up to 50 dams and 200 such annual inspections will be funded by the project.
B. Improved Environmental Management
i. Pilot Communal Management of Micro-Catchments: The project will address the issue of deteriorating small- -
scale local catchments which impinge on irrigation systems, where the damage is caused by over-grazing of
livestock by those who own land in the irrigation systems. Rehabilitation, with the consequent increase in forage



40
production from the irrigated land, will release livestock owners from the imperative of grazing the vulnerable
hillsides nearby. This will establish conditions in which an initiative to introduce more appropriate land-use patterns
to the hillsides might succeed. An international Soil Conservation Specialist (4MM), with national specialists
(24MM) in the fields of agronomy, soil erosion protection and forestry, will identify three suitable sites for pilot
interventions, and will draw up, in a series of participatory workshops with stakeholders, a management plan for
these sites. The management plan's objective would be to protect the hill slopes from erosion through control of
grazing and planting productive tree species, such as olives or fuel wood.  The team will provide training and
technical assistance to the communities implementing the pilots, and will monitor progress over two years. The
project will also fund purchase of training materials and essential equipment. Two sites would be selected during
project implementation.
ii. Best Agrtcultural Practice Extension Service in Karavasta Catchment: Where drainage water carrying agro-
chemicals from sub-projects such as LUU-2 and LUK-5 might impact the environmentally sensitive Karavasta
Lagoon, the project will provide training for extension services and farmers in agriculture technologies which would
minimize such impact. An international agronomist (IMM) would design the program and provide the training
materials, and a national specialist (12MM) would implement the program. The project would also fund training
workshops.
iii. Environmental Monitoring for Sub-projects: Routine environmental monitoring of sub-projects would be
managed by the PMU during the life of the project through an annual monitoring program contracted to a national
NGO. This would allow collection and analysis of irrigation and drainage water samples from rehabilitated sub-
projects in conformity with the monitoring and mitigation plan (refer to Project Implementation Plan). Additional
monitoring requirements of further sub-projects, would be included each year as they arise. This project component
would also finance the purchase of testing equipment, principally EC meters, some of which would be allocated to
WUAs where more frequent monitoring is required.
COMPONENT 4: IMPLEMENTA TION SUPPOR T (COST $ 2.78 M)
A. Development of an Investment Program
i. Feasibility Studies, Environmental Assessments and Dam Safety Inspections: The project will prepare feasibility
studies and environmental assessments for each scheme over 1000 ha for which rehabilitation is proposed. These
studies will form an integral part of each year's annual work plan. A team of international specialists will assist
national staff to prepare the reports. The international team will cover the following disciplines: irrigation engineer,
agriculture, economics and environment with a total of 12 MM input over four years. The project will also
undertake dam safety inspections for every dam in the international "high dam" category (i.e. over 15m height or
over 1.0 million cu.m storage), regardless of the size of scheme involved, and an input of 2.0 MM from an
international dam specialist will be provided. The above technical assistance team will assist a multi-disciplinary
team of national staff (51MM) covering the following disciplines: engineering, agriculture, hydrology, soils,
economics and environment.
ii. Development of Rehabilitation Plan for LUU-2 and LUK-5: The project will undertake a detailed rehabilitation
design and associated environmental assessment of those sub-projects which impact on Karavasta. This will be an
elaboration and finalization of the study completed during project preparation for sub-projects LUU-2 (Divjaka
irrigation) and LUK-5 (Terbuf drainage) but will be extended in scope to include other possible sub-projects to the
south of Karavasta. International consultants (5MM environmental specialists and engineers) will. assist national
consultants (15MM) to prepare a detailed mitigation plan agreed with stakeholders covering these sub-projects.
This will include engineering studies of alternative drainage plans, with selection based on least-cost principles,
nutrient stripping proposals to minimize impacts on Karavasta Lagoon and reformulation of the irrigation and
drainage designs to accommodate an agreed buffer zone. These mitigations will be integrated into the sub-project
rehabilitation plans. As these mitigation measures would require consensus of communities and landholders,
consultants are expected to work closely with the communities. A committee - the Karavasta Stakeholder
Committee - would be established to act as the main counterpart for this sub-component comprising representatives
of districts and municipalities, farmers (WUAs) and fishermen (cooperatives), directors at the district agricultural
office, forestry protection officers, NEA representatives and local NGO staff.



41
B. Project Administration and Implementation SUppotl
The project will provide technical assistance to the PMU in the following three fields: (a) a Financial Information
Specialist (I.OMM) will assist national staff to establish the flnancia and information management systems, and will
provide support throughout the project life, (b) a Procurement Specialist (4MM) will assist the PMU with
international bidding procedures, (c) Engineers of various specializations (3MM) will assist PMU staff with the
preparation of technical specifications and specialist inspections associ'*d with international procurement, and (d)
an MIS specialist (2MM) will develop a suitable information system for the PMU.
C Support to Project Management Unit
The project will fund the incremental staff salaries of the PMU, covering all administrative and technical staff. The
project will also fund the equipment and vehicles needed to maintain the operational efficiency of the PMU office
and team, including new financial and management information software, as well as the incremental operating
expenses of the office and vehicles.



42
ANNEX 2: Attachment 1
Description of possible first phase subprojects
Introduction
Eight sub-projects have been investigated d'uring preparation and feasibility studies were completed by the
Government with assistance of international consultants in December 1998. These studies have revealed that the
sub-projects identified for the second project are much more complex than those proposed under the first project. In
particular there is additional pumping, more numerous water sources (including reservoirs), the schemes are smaller
and fragmented generating longer lengths of canal and drain for rehabilitation, and there are often external
influences such as flooding, that require special precautions. The average unit cost (base cost) of these schemes is
$535 per ha. Including contingencies this estimate rises to about $600 per ha. Estimates for each proposed scheme
are outlined below.
Subprojects                   Estimated Rehabilitation Cost
($ per hectare)
LEU3                          597
BRU4                           675
BRU3                           523
PEU2                          420
ELU3                          484
VLU3                          557
SHU4                          473
KOUI                           551
A number of sub-projects considered had elements with higher marginal costs. Indeed one such element has been
excluded from PEU2, because by incorporating double pumping and the rehabilitation of the subproject reservoir,
the marginal costs reached $1,500 per ha. The selection of sub-projects should therefore critically appraise
expensive elements within the schemes. Consideration must also be made of potential additional costs associated
with external factors.
1. Lezhe District Sub-projects: LEU3
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
Sub-project LEU3, located in Balldren, Kallmet and Blinisht communes near Lezhe town, has a gross service area of
4,410 ha and is a component of a larger system over 20,000 ha in area, extending into Shkoder district. The main
water supply for the scheme is the hydro-electric reservoir on the Drini River, managed by KESH. Water reaches
the sub-project through scheme SHU4. Most (3450ha) of the scheme is gravity fed, but there are 9 pump stations
supplying 962 ha. Construction of the main system started in 1946/7 to supply four agricultural cooperatives and a
state farm. Subsequent development was piecemeal extending over several decades. Because of significant
deterioration, and its position downstream of SHU4, the scheme is unable to irrigate more than 5% of its area. In
addition, the scheme is subject to flooding from the adjacent hillsides. The following summary draws on the
conclusions of feasibility studies.
IRRIGA TION AND DRAINA GE FACILITIES
A. Rehabilitation Requirements
Main Canals [$446,000]:
* 36 km of main and branch canals of which 24 km is concrete lined, of this 50% will be repaired and 50%
replaced;
* Contribution to rehabilitation of Koterr and Maba canals through Shkoder district;
* One main river crossing is to be rehabilitated;



43
*   15 control structures are to be rehabilitated, and 36 new provided;
*  3 culverts to be rehabilitated, and 5 new
Secondary Canals [$255,000]:
*  48 km secondary canals, of which with 20 km is concrete lined: about 15 km of lining will be repaired, and 5
km replaced;
*  The secondary canals include 26 control structures to be repaired, and 110 new;
*  2 siphons to be rehabilitated, and one new;
*  8 culverts to be rehabilitated, and 22 new;
Pump stations [$281,000]:
* 11 pump stations (including two for drainage) require various degrees of rehabilitation, including minor civil
works and repair and replacement of about 25% of the electro-mechanical equipment.
B. Proposed Improvements J$50,0001
* Measurement structures (30 in all) will be provided at the head of all main, branch and secondary canals, and
secondary canals will be provided with escapes, long crested weirs will replace gated weirs in the main canal at
every opportunity.
Drainage system [$1,529,000]:
*  50 km of main drains and 50 km secondary will be re-sectioned, some lined sections will be repaired or
replaced;
*  19 culverts and one bridge will be rehabilitated;
*   15 km interceptor drain on the east side requires substantial reconstruction;
*  Check dams are required on numerous watercourses to control erosion;
Other components [$125,000]:
*  Some 25 km of access roads will be re-surfaced and graded, and an allowance is included for minor items.
C. Cost Estimate
The total rehabilitation cost is estimated to be $2.636 million (base cost), equivalent to $597 per ha. This is above
the proposed upper limit, but is largely caused by the costs allocated to the east and west collector drains.
2.    Berat District Sub-projects: BRU4
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
Subproject BRU4 is a small scheme located in the communes of Poshnje and Kutalli in Berat district, near
Drenovica town. The scheme has a total service area of 1290 ha, comprised of four units supplied by a different
combination of pumps and reservoirs, the main source being pumped abstractions from the River Semani. Irrigation
water supply to BRU4 is intermingled with supplies passing through the scheme to other, larger downstream areas in
Fier district. For this reason the rehabilitation costs are high. Despite significant deterioration since 1990 the
scheme remains able to irrigate 26% of its service area. The following summary draws on the conclusions of
feasibility studies.
IRRIGA TIONAND DRAINAGE FACILITIES
A. Rehabilitation requirements
Reservoirs[$58, 000, base cost]:
* Gorican and Kurjani reservoirs contribute a minor part of their resources to BRU4, supplying 100 and 400ha
respectively; Gorican has been safety-inspected, repairs include rehabilitation of the supply canal; Kurjani
whose main supply goes to Fier was inspected under the first project.



44
Pump stations [$42, 000]:.
*  Goricarn is the main pump station serving the scheme (and other areas beyond), the pumps are in good order, but
motors need replacement.
*  The adjacent Fier pump station primarily serves other areas (in Fier) and is not included in the rehabilitation.
Main Canals [$303,000]:
*   14.5 km of main canals (U3 & U3-1) are concrete lined, but are in poor condition, 50% will be repaired and the
most critical 50% relined;
*  6.5 km UKM-I is earth, and will be re-sectioned;
*  All control structures are damaged and all gates require replacement, new regulators will be provided where
possible.
*  26 aqueducts or siphons and 22 bridges or culverts are to be rehabilitated.
Secondary Canals [$203,000]:
*   19 km secondary canals, of which with 9 km is concrete lined: the 10 km earth sections require only cleaning
and re-sectioning; about 5 km of lining will be repaired, and 4 km replaced;
*  about 50 turnouts will be rehabilitated, and another 50 new ones provided;
*  there are 13 aquaducts and siphons, and 7 culverts and bridges to be rehabilitated;
Improvements [$20, 000]:
* 8 measurement structures will be provided at the head of all main, branch and secondary canals and a similar
number of escapes, long crested weirs will replace gated in the main canal at every opportunity (costs included
above).
Drainage system [$195,000]:
*  33 km of main drains and 28 km of secondary drains will be re-sectioned; some lined sections will be repaired
or replaced;
*  50 bridges and culverts and 16 drain crossings will be repaired, and about 10 new culverts added.
Other components [$50, 000]'
*  Some 8 km of access roads will be re-surfaced and graded, and an allowance is included for minor items.
B. Cost Estinate
The total rehabilitation cost is estimated at $0.871 million (base cost), equivalent to $675 per ha. This is above the
proposed upper limit, but reflects the contribution to downstream schemes that relies on the rehabilitation of main
canals (by eliminating these 'overhead' costs, the rehabilitation estimate reduces to less than $486 per ha). The
consultant's estimate included a more extensive program, with an additional $0.341 million for replacement of canal
lining and structures. These repairs will not be necessary until there is a further increase in demand for irrigation
water beyond that necessary for the cropping pattern adopted in the economic analysis.
3.   Berat District Sub-project: BRU3
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
Subproject BRU3 spans Berat and Kucove districts, and is in the communes of Velabisht, Otllak, Poshnje and
Perondia (Kucove) just south of Berat town. The scheme has a total service area of 4325 ha located on both sides of
the River Osumi, but is comprised of four main units, and several sub-units. Arrangements for the provision of
water are complex, the principle source is the Osumi River, but supplies are also drawn from the Devolli River,
three reservoirs and a drain. Whilst the main supply is gravity, the system is complicated by some 18 pump stations
which abstract water from various canals and rivers. The main scheme was constructed in 1953 and operated by an
agricultural co-operative that produced mainly cotton. The scheme was subsequently through the 1970s with
additional components. Despite significant deterioration since 1990 the scheme is able to irrigate 26% of its area,
mostly in the lower gravity fed areas. The following summary draws on the conclusions of feasibility studies.



45
IRRIGATIONAND DRAINAGE FACILITIES
A. Rehabilitation requirements
Reservoirs [$310,000, base cost]:
* Repairs to Manastirit, Malas-Grope and Sadovice reservoirs, including "safety" works.
Main Canals [$657,000]:
*  The main intake and the weir near Berat, and the lower pipe crossing require rehabilitation;
*  70 km of main and branch canals of which 17 km is concrete lined: the 53 km earth sections require only
cleaning and re-sectioning, about 15 km of lining will be repaired, and 2 km replaced;
*  The main and branch canals include 101 control structures to be rehabilitated, and 36 new;
*  There are 5 aqueducts to be rehabilitated, and 21 new, there are no culverts or bridges, up to 25 new will be
provided
Secondary Canals [$436,000]:
*   110 km secondary canals, of which with 54 km is concrete lined: the 56 km earth sections require only cleaning
and re-sectioning,; about 44 km of lining will be repaired, and 10 km replaced
*  The secondary canals include 84 control structures to be repaired, and 291 new;
*  There are 48 aquaducts and drop structures and 359 culverts and bridges, repairs are necessary to half, and half
need to be replaced.
Improvements [$40, 000]:
* Measurement structures will be provided at the head of all main, branch and secondary canals, 27 in all, and
secondary canals will be provided with escapes, long crested weirs will replace gated in the main canal at every
opportunity (costs included above).
Pump stations [$329, 000]:
* 18 pump stations require rehabilitation, including minor civil works and repair and replacement of about 25% of
the electro-mechanical equipment.
Drainage system [$366, 000]:
*  61 km of main drains and 58 km secondary will be re-sectioned, some lined sections will be repaired or
replaced;
*  72 bridges and culverts to be repaired, and about 50 new ones to be added.
Other components [125, 000]:
*  Some 25 km of access roads will be re-surfaced and graded, and an allowance is included for minor items.
B. Cost Estimate
The total rehabilitation cost is estimated at $2.263 million (base cost), equivalent to $523 per ha. This is close to the
proposed upper limit, but reflects the complex system of gravity and pumped supplies as well as the additional costs
of reservoir "safety" repairs. The consultant's estimate included a more extensive program, with an additional
$0.738 million for replacement of canal lining and structures. These will not be necessary until there is a further
increase in demand for irrigation water beyond that necessary for the cropping pattem adopted in the economic
analysis.



46
4.    Peqin District Sub-Project: PEU2
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The sub-project PEU2 is in Gjocaj Commune, on the south bank of the River Shkumbini, opposite Peqin town. The
scheme comprises two separate components: a low gravity system with a direct intake from the Shkumbini River
(831 ha), a pumped storage in Vashaj reservoir and a high level pumped system (319ha). The gravity scheme was
constructed in the 1970s, and has suffered neglect since 1991. The reservoir and pump stations were a later 1980s
development, but have suffered since 1991 and are only partly operable. The pumped area is dependent on double
pumping, requiring a 45m lift into Vashaj reservoir, and then a further lift of 70 or 80 m to higher areas for
irrigation. Clearly the double pumping exceeds subproject selection guidelines, which limits pumping to less than
50m. This area should therefore be excluded. The following summary relating to the gravity area draws on the
conclusions of feasibility studies.
IRRIGA TIONAND DRAINAGE FACILITIES
A. Rehabilitation requirements for gravity area:
Main canal [$124,000 base cost]:
*  Head regulator to control abstraction from the free intake;
*  20 km earth main and branch canals need cleaning and re-sectioning throughout;
*  20 control structures need replacing, 5 culverts and bridges to be repaired, and 10 new.
Secondary canals [$90, 000]:
* 15 km earth canals to be cleaned and re-sectioned;
* 60 control structures at tertiary outlets to be replaced, 2 culverts repaired, 2 new.
Improvements [$25,000]:
* 15 measurement structures for main and secondary canals and 15 escapes, long crested weirs will replace gated
in the main canal at every opportunity (costs included above);
Drainage system [$80, 000]:
*  17.5 km open earth drain to be cleaned and re-sectioned;
*  5 culverts to be repaired, 10 new.
Other components [$30, 000]:
*  3 km access road to be surfaced and graded, and an allowance is included for other minor items.
B. Cost Estimate
The total rehabilitation cost is estimated at $0.349 million (base cost), equivalent to $342 per ha. This is in line with
the average cost of the first project where the works were very similar.
C Incremental cost of the pumped scheme
The incremental costs of the pumped scheme with the Vashaj reservoir, serving 319 ha, are estimated as follows:
Reservoir       $60,000
Pumpststions    $130,000
canal system    $250,000 (including lined secondary canals)
drainage        $25,000
other items     $25,000
The total cost is $490,000, representing over $1500 per ha, which is clearly well outside the proposed guidelines.
The pumping component should therefore not be included in the proposed rehabilitation works for the scheme.



47
5.    Elbasan District Sub-project: ELU3
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The sub-project ELU3 is in Mollas and Klos Communes, about 20 km south of Elbasan city. ELU 3, with the
associated drainage scheme ELK3, comprises a narrow strip of low land, about 900 ha in area, stretching 15 km
along the Devolli River with an adjacent smaller pumped upland area of 515 ha; the total service area is 1,415 ha.
The scheme was initially constructed in 1945, but it was substantially rebuilt and extended through the 1970s.
Neglect since 1990 and vandalism of the pump stations has left the system in a poor condition. Nevertheless with
ample water supplies drawn by a direct intake from the Devolli River some 56% of the area is irrigated. The
following summary draws on the conclusions of feasibility studies.
IRRIGA TION AND DRAINAGE FA CILITIES
A. Rehabilitation requirements
There are two main problem facing ELU3: (a) the main canal becomes blocked with sediments originating from the
river and from hill runoff, and (b) the pumping equipment is damaged and the stations are only partially effective.
The following rehabilitation is necessary to restore the system to functional effectiveness:
Main Canals [$210, 000, base cost]
* 14 km of main canal (gravity area only) requires cleaning and re-sectioning, with lining added only in specific
locations, maximum 1000m;
* the main canal has 20 control structures and 19 bridges and culverts: repairs are necessary to all control
structures, including new gates, a new regulator is needed to control the canal, and 10 new crossings are
required to bypass the hill streams from which sediment enters the main canal.
Secondary Canals [$122, 000]:
* 32 km secondary canals (gravity and pumped area), all are earth sections and require cleaning, and 5 km of new
concrete lining is proposed for the pumped area.
* in both areas there are 25 existing control structures requiring rehabilitation, including new gates, 15 bridges,
culverts or aquaducts require rehabilitation, a further 15 new structures are required.
Improvements [$25, 000]:
* 20 measurement structures will be provided at the head of all main, branch and secondary canals;
* Secondary canals will be provided with 20 emergency escapes, long crested weirs will replace gated in the main
canal at every opportunity (costs included above).
Drainage system [$159,000]:
* This system is provided with gravity drainage so the rehabilitation is limited to: 30 km of main or secondary
which will be re-sectioned;25 bridges and culverts to be repaired, 5 new ones to be added and 5 new aquaducts
to be added.
Pumpstations [$413,000]
* 5 existing pumping stations, whose static head ranges from 54 to 75m, need rehabilitation. Some civil works
are required, but the main expenditure is on replacement of about 50% of the mechanical/electrical components.
Other components [$40,000]:
* Some 3 km of access roads will be re-surfaced and graded and an allowance is included for other minor items.
B. Cost Estimate
The total rehabilitation cost is estimated at $0.686 million (base cost), equivalent to $484 per ha. These figures are
reasonable for a system in this condition, although it should be noted that expenditure should be minimized as the
system is already irrigating a high proportion of the service area.



48
6.   Vlore District Sub-project: VLU3
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The sub-project VLU3 is located in Shushice, Qender and Selenice communes, just north of Vlore. The scheme
receives water from the Shushica River with free gravity intakes serving the left (1,700 ha) and right bank (I,OOOha)
canals. The scheme originated in the 1930s as an Italian owned fruit and vegetable farm. It was further developed
in the 1960s.  In the 1980s a scheme to provide the right bank area with water from the River Vjosa was
constructed, but these works are not essential to the scheme, and rehabilitation of these components is not proposed.
The scheme has deteriorated during the 1990s, and is now only able to irrigate 22% of the service area. The
following summary draws on the conclusions of feasibility studies.
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE FACILITIES
A. Rehabilitation requirements
The scheme has difficulty in maintaining the effectiveness of the free intake structures - one will require
rehabilitation whilst the other has to be relocated some 300 m upstream and connected to the main canal. These will
present perennial difficulties to the scheme, but the cost of control structures in the river is prohibitive.
Main Canals [$559,000, base cost]
*  The two main free intakes require reconstruction;
*  32 km of main canals of which a proportion is lined, but in bad condition, about 40% will be replaced, the
remaining will be repaired;
*  The main canals require rehabilitation of 50 control structures and 19 new ones, I aquaduct, 4 siphons and 2
bridges are to be rehabilitated; new structures include 5 aquaducts, 4 siphons , and 14 culverts.
Secondary Canals [$358, 000]:
*  52 km of earth secondary canals require cleaning and re-sectioning, allowance is included for lining 20%;
*  Most secondary canal structures are badly deteriorated, 43 tertiary outlets are to be repaired, and 143 new
outlets constructed; one culvert only is to be repaired;
Improvements [$40,000]:
Measurement structures will be provided at the head of all main, branch and secondary canals, and escapes in
all secondary canals.
Drainage system [$498, 000]:
*  Excavation of 38 km of main and secondary drains;
*  Flood protection dikes and revetment where vulnerable to erosion;
*  48 culverts and bridges repaired, 25 new;
*  30 bridges and culverts to be repaired, 10 new ones to be added.
Other components [$50,000]:
*  Some 5 km of access roads will be re-surfaced and graded, and an allowance is included for minor items.
B. Cost Estimate
The total rehabilitation cost is estimated at $1.505 million (base cost) equivalent to $557 per ha. This reflects the
additional costs of the essential flood protection works , without which the cost would be comparable with the first
project.
7. Shkoder District Sub-project: SHU4
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The sub-project SHU4 is in Bushati Commune, just south of Shkoder. The scheme is part of a larger system of over
20,000 ha which extends into Lezhe District. The main scheme is supplied with water from a hydro-electric



49
reservoir on the Drini River. SHU4, with the associated drainage schemes SHK5 and 6, comprise two separate
blocks with a total service area of 3210 ha. The scheme was constructed in the early 1960s to service a co-operative.
Widespread vandalism in the early 1990s, including theft of brick and concrete-slab lining, combined with total
neglect since, has left this scheme in a particularly deteriorated condition, with only 7% of the service area irrigated.
The following summary draws on the conclusions of feasibility studies.
IRRIGA TIONAND DRAINAGE FACILITIES
A. Rehabilitation requirements
Because SHU4 is at the head of a major system, it is served by main and branch canals which continue past the
scheme to serve other areas. Consequently, the scheme is larger than would be expected, and the condition of the
facilities, particularly the lining, is poor.  The following rehabilitation is necessary to restore the system to
functional effectiveness:
Main Canals [$502, 000, base cost]
*  37 km of main and branch canals of which 17 km is concrete lined: the 20 km earth sections require only
cleaning and re-sectioning, about 10 km of the lining is deteriorated and 6 km requires urgent replacement, and
4 km repairs only;
*  The main and branch canals include 43 control structures, 5 aqueducts or crossings and 18 bridges and culverts:
repairs are necessary to all structures, and approximately 10 need to be replaced, the rest repaired. 80% of the
gates on control structures will be replaced;
Secondary Canals [$510,000]:
*  51 km secondary canals, of which with 46 km is concrete lined: the 5 km earth sections require only cleaning
and re-sectioning, much of the lining is missing, and the rest deteriorated, 30 km requires replacement, and 16
km repairs only;
*  Many secondary canal control structures, including tertiary intakes, were omitted in the original construction,
requirements are for about 200 new structures and 50 rehabilitation, about 40 culverts and bridges need repair;
Improvements [$72,000]:
*  Measurement structures will be provided at the head of all main, branch and secondary canals, 27 in all;
i  Secondary canals will be provided with 20 emergency escapes;
e  Where cross-regulators are to be replaced in the main canals, new long-crested weirs will be provided, the
above estimates allow for 10.
Drainage system [$360,000]:
This system is provided with gravity drainage so the rehabilitation is limited to:
*   15 km of main drains and 40 km secondary will be re-sectioned;
a  30 bridges and culverts to be repaired, 10 new ones to be added.
Other components [$75,000]:
*  Some 15 km of access roads will be re-surfaced and graded, and an allowance is included for minor items.
B. Cost Estimate
The total rehabilitation cost is estimated at $1.519 million (base cost), equivalent to $473 per ha. This is in line with
the average cost of the first project where the works were very similar. The consultant's estimate included a more
extensive program, with an additional $0.300 million for replacement of canal lining and structures. These will not
be necessary until there is a further increase in demand for irrigation water beyond that necessary for the cropping
pattern adopted in the economic analysis.



50
8. Korce District Sub-project: KOU 1
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The sub-project KOUI is located in the communes of Mollaj, Drenove, Voskop and Bulgarec; southwest of Korce
town. The scheme is supplied by gravity from Gjanc reservoir, providing off-river storage for gravity diversions
from the River Osumi. The service area is 6050 ha, including two small pumped areas on the right bank totalling
370ha. It also includes about 1100 ha of a gravity sprinkler system on the left bank. The scheme was constructed in
the 1970/75 period and has suffered from neglected maintenance since 1990. It is cannot currently irrigate more
than 30% of the area. The following summary draws on the conclusions of feasibility studies.
IRRIGA TION AND DRAINAGE FACILITIES
A. Rehabilitation requirements
Reservoir and intake [$698, 000, base case]:
*  Gjanc dam is in good condition, requiring only minor improvements
*  The intake from the River Osumi is good, but the canal needs rehabilitation,
*  The outlet tunnel from the reservoir is in a poor condition and requires major repairs, but the supply canal is in a
better condition
Main Canals [$626, 000]
*  43 km of main and branch canals, the earth sections require re-sectioning, about 20km of lining will be replaced
or repaired in areas of special need;
5   113 gates are required for control structures, 10 aqueducts to be rehabilitated and 74 bridges and culverts
rehabilitated and 2 new are required;
Secondary Canals [$652, 000]:
*  86 km of earth secondary canals require rehabilitation, lining will be provided for 20km critical sections;
*   150 control gates require replacement, 8 aquaducts, 111 culverts and bridges need repair, 2 new bridges will be
provided;
Gravity sprinkler area [$184, 000]:
*  Repair pipe and valves.
improvements [$102,000]:
*  Measurement structures will be provided at the head of all main, branch and secondary canals, 39 in all, long
crested weirs will replace gated in the main canal at every opportunity (costs included above);
*  Secondary canals will be provided with 39 emergency escapes;
Pump stations [$130, 000]:
*  Repair of two small pump stations, including replacement of electro-mechanical equipment.
Drainage system [$980, 000]:
This system is provided with gravity drainage for which a nominal sum is included (the consultants did not
make a detailed estimate).
Other components [150,000]:
*  An allowance is included for access roads to be re-surfaced and graded and for other minor items.
B. Cost Estimate
The total rehabilitation cost is estimated at $3.338 million (base cost), equivalent to $551 per ha. The consultant's
estimate included a more extensive program with an additional $600,000 allocated for canal lining. This will not be
necessary until there is a further increase in demand for irrigation water beyond that necessary for the cropping
pattern adopted in the economic analysis.



51
ANNEX 2: Attachment 2
List of dams
Ref   District       Scheme          Dam             Type        Height         Storage
Nr                                                                 m              m 3
1    Lushnja     LUU-2        Divjaka            Earthfill       25          4 500 000
2                 LUU-2       Xengu nr. I         Earthfill      10            120 000
3                 LUJU-2      Xengu nr. 2         Earthfill      10            150 000
4                 LUU-2       Miza                Earthfill      14            450 000
5    Lezhd        LEU-3       Kallmet             Earthfill      15          2 120 000
6                 LEU-3       Fishte              Earthfill      15            505 000
7                 LEU-3       Troshan             Earthfill       7            100 000
8    Berat        BRU-4       Goricani            Earthfill      22          4 600 000
9                 BRU-3       Manastiri           Earthfill      25            360 000
10                BRU-3        Sadovicas           Earthfill      30           1 700 000
I I               BRU-3        Malas-Gropa         Earthfill      16            120 000
12    Korce       KOU-1        Gjanc nr. 1         Earthfill      29          17 000 000
KOU-1       Gjanc nr. 2         Earthfill      12        (combined)



52
ANNEX 3
REVIEW OF THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
Background
The agricultural sector in Albania accounts for over 50% of the GDP (up to 63% in 1997) and generates 60% of the
country's employment. The contribution of this sector is particularly imnportant to the Albanian economy in this
period of transition. Agricultural growth is a key objective of Government, with clear economic and social
advantages.
In contrast to many central European countries, Albania very quickly implemented egalitarian redistribution of land.
Consequently, the sector has adjusted quickly, with private sector dominance in production, agro-processing,
marketing and trade. In 1991 the 550 state and collective farms of about 550,000 ha arable land were broken-up into
small family farms. Since then about 25% has gone out of production, so that there are now about 400,000 farms
operating at a size of about 1. I ha each, which are generally further fragmented in up to four separate plots of
different land classes.
Whilst Albania has a generous rainfall - around 1000 mm in the main agricultural areas - allowing cultivation of
many crops, the long substantially dry summer means that irrigation is beneficial. All the rainfed crops, such as
wheat, maize, beans, alfalfa, respond to irrigation with yield increases of 50 to 100%. All high-value summer crops,
such as vegetables or water melon, can only be grown with irrigation. As a result the former regime constructed
extensive irrigation systems achieving 400,000 ha of irrigable service area by 1990. This represents 60% of all
arable land, and almost all the land suitable for irrigation. The larger part of most state and collective farms were
irrigated. The main irrigation systems are mostly in the coastal plains and many occupy reclaimed swamps where
drainage is essential. Consequently, about 270,000 ha of the major irrigation schemes are also provided with
drainage systems. Under the former regime the total irrigated area extended 272,000 ha annually, representing about
70% of the irrigable service area.
Albanian agriculture now has to compete with Europe, not just for export markets, but also in the domestic market
where Greek and Italian fruit and vegetables are sold at a premium because of their quality. It is clear that irrigation
has become an imperative for Albanian Agriculture.
Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
About 70% of the total irrigation service area is composed of about 100 large schemes averaging about 3000 ha in
size. The balance of irrigated land comprises around 800 small schemes, averaging about 100 ha in size - many
being very small hill systems. Most systems (representing about 70% of the total service area) are supplied by
gravity, the remainder by pumping. In Albania most irrigation is in the coastal plains, and thus most pumping is
comparatively low-head (less than 50m), and there are only a very few schemes with double-pumping.  All'
irrigation schemes utilize surface water - about 40% of the area is served by run-of-the-river (gravity) schemes,
about 44% are supplied from some 650 dams2 and some 639 pump stations supply the remainder3.
Albania's drainage systems are located primarily in the coastal regions. Some 90% of the total drained area is
comprised of large schemes (approximately 80 schemes are over 3000 ha each), with only 10% of the drained area
comprised of small individual schemes. About 100,000 ha of drain irrigated land is low-lying and has to be
pumped.
I Except for 1,000 ha supplied by springs in the hill areas.
2 Most are small reservoirs, but this number includes five large hydro-power reservoirs on major rivers which also supply
irrigation water.
3The situation is a little complicated in that some reservoirs receive pumped water, and some pump stations abstract from
reservoirs, others from drains.



53
Current Irrigation Technology
The layout. of all main Albanian irrigation systems follow almost exactly the same grid pattern. A main canal
follows the contours to obtain command; secondary canals are aligned down the slope, and are generally
perpendicular to the main canals; tertiary canals are always perpendicular to the secondaries, and thus run across the
slope. The tertiaries are almost always spaced at 200m intervals down the secondaries, and are generally 600m in
length, commanding a 12 ha unit. Secondary canals generally supply only one side, and are thus spaced at about
600m intervals along the main canals, secondary canal commands are generally around 250 ha (i.e., 20 tertiary
units), but range from 50 to 1,000 ha. The minor irrigation schemes, particularly the hill schemes, are laid-out with
more regard for the topography and do not follow a rigid pattern.
The majority of the canals are unlined earth channels. In areas of light soils, or other special circumstances, parts of
the main and secondary canals are lined. Overall about 30% of main and secondary canals are lined, but no tertiary
canals are lined.
Surface field irrigation is the norm. Although some 25,000 ha of sprinkler systems were constructed by the former
regime, none of these systems are now functioning. The field irrigation technique universally used is known as the
"Brazda" method. Water is released from the tertiary canal by cutting its bank into a small field ditch, called a
"brazda" which runs perpendicular to the tertiary. Brazdas are spaced at about 20m intervals, and run the full 200 m
width of the tertiary unit, with shallow drainage ditches between them. The brazda units are invariably mounded,
the brazda itself being 30 to 50 cm higher than the ditches to either side. To irrigate the farmer blocks the brazda to
spill water sideways (about 10 m in each direction) across the field.
Drainage systems follow the irrigation layout. As tertiary canals run across the slope they intersect runoff, and
therefore a shallow open drain (about I.Orm deep) is generally constructed parallel to the tertiary canal on the up-hill
side. These discharge into secondary drains parallel to the secondary canals; which in turn discharge into main
drains running (or pumped) into the sea. A large portion (76,000 ha) of the coastal irrigation schemes constructed
in reclaimed swamps incorporate buried field drains which discharge into the tertiary drain. The mounded fields
noted above are valued for the drainage they provide in the winter season, particularly in the coastal region where
soils can be heavy.
The irrigation designs are generally based on a module of 1.15 I/s per ha. This will provide sufficient water in the
peak period (July or August) for an irrigation intensity of 70% provided that the overall system irrigation efficiency
is not below 50%. Control of the irrigation systems are rudimentary. Commonly there are no cross-regulators in the
main canals; there are very few measurement structures, and none that are used; and the secondary canal off-take
gates are simple vertical slide gates with no gauges, and no recorded or reliable calibration. As the secondary canals
run down the slope there are more commonly cross-regulators at the tertiary turnouts, but many schemes are
incomplete and missing secondary canal and tertiary off-take structures. Secondary canal control and tertiary off-
take gates are also simple slide gates. Generally command is adequate, however where the topography does not
respect the rectangular grid layout of the canals the gradient of the tertiaries can be too flat.
The tertiary canals, and their off-takes from the secondary canals, are designed for a flow of 100 l/s which
corresponds to a rotation interval of about 7 days, assuming 24 hours per day irrigation. This rotation principle, as
well as the designs which depend on a 24 hour per day flow regime, are critical to the efficient management of the
system.
Current Condition of the Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
During the 1980's, the communist regime came under mounting economic pressure and the maintenance of
irrigation and drainage infrastructure was increasingly deferred. In addition many systems were vandalized on the
collapse of the regime, and subsequently almost totally neglected through the 1990s. Apart from those schemes
rehabilitated under the first Bank rehabilitation project, irrigation schemes are barely, if at all, functioning. Pump
stations are the most vulnerable element of these schemes, and most were seriously damaged or destroyed in 1991.
Very few pump stations remain operable in 1999 (with the exception of those rehabilitated by the first project), and -
none operate at their full efficiency. Canal control structures are also generally not functioning, and many gates are
rusted, or have been damaged or stolen. All earth canals require cleaning and re-sectioning. Lined canals are in a



54
more serious condition. Where lining is comprised of slabs or bricks it is often stolen. On the other hand, where
insitu concrete has been used, it is of poor quality and is usually extensively damaged due to lack of past
maintenance. Across the country the irrigation systems had deteriorated to a state where only about 30% of the
service area was irrigated4, and in much of this reduced area irrigation was unreliable and inadequate.
Drainage systems are suffering primarily from neglect, rather than damage or vandalism. The earth channels are
universally silted and overgrown. A number of drainage or flood control systems are particularly vulnerable (e.g.
hillside interceptor drains which are quickly silted-up). In some locations, such as in the Lezhe District, these
drainage systems have seriously deteriorated leading to frequent flooding and extensive waterlogging. Many
drainage pump stations have deteriorated, but few were vandalized, and many have been restored under the first
irrigation rehabilitation project. Drainage system deterioration was not as noticeable as that observed for irrigation -
in 1996 the service was inadequate over about 50% of the service area.
The first irrigation rehabilitation project made a very positive impact on the physical condition of irrigation and
drainage infrastructure in seven coastal districts5 undertaking rehabilitation of 98,000 ha of irrigation and 120,000 ha
of drainage systems, representing about 75% of the total irrigation service area. The first project pursued a policy of
reinstatement, focusing on returning systems to their original design state. This principle was dictated by the
emergency nature of the first project and the allied weakness of design institutions, which combined to preclude any
attempts to introduce systematic improvements. However, ad-hoc improvements were incorporated where there was
a particular need on a scheme by scheme basis - these included provision of structures omitted from the original
design; additional bridges; culverts and canal lining. The first project reinstated most of the schemes to their
original design condition, and provided the opportunity to irrigate to private farmers for the first time.
A parallel, IFAD financed irrigation rehabilitation project was also implemented in six hill districts where the
irrigation schemes are very much smaller, and in many cases much older. This project achieved rehabilitation of
about 25,000 ha, following a similar process to the first project, including the involvement of farmers through
WUAs.
Irrigation and Drainage Institutions
Under the former regime the district based water enterprises of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food were
responsible for management of the irrigation systems, and the distribution of irrigation water to the state and
collective farms. Farm  staff were then responsible for irrigation within their boundaries.  Water enterprises
continued their function after 1991, but instead of servicing the 93 large farms, they were required to provide service
to 400,000 individual farmers; and moreover, were required to be fully recover their costs from the farmers through
water charges. Water enterprises across the country failed to recover costs satisfactorily. However, this is not
surprising considering the difficulties they faced, which included deteriorated and vandalized infrastructure;
unsuitably designed irrigation systems (as built) that were unable to meet the demands of individual private farmers;
unprepared and untrained staff; the collapse of markets, and the reversal of the agricultural sector to subsistence
farming. It is not surprising that farmers were unable and/or reluctant to pay irrigation fees where the service was
clearly deficient.
As state budget subsidies to the water enterprises steadily reduced, and service fee collection difficulties increased,
the enterprises suspended system maintenance, laid off staff and diverted equipment to chargeable commercial
activities in order to meet their salary commitments. As these actions reduced the quality of the services a
downward spiral of deterioration was initiated. Finally in the turmoil of 1997, many of the water enterprise offices
were looted and the collection of service fees by water enterprises collapsed. Questions were raised about the
usefulness of water enterprises in the irrigation field; although they continued to operate the main drainage pump
stations with a central government budget.
The first irrigation rehabilitation project introduced the concept of Water Users Associations (WUAs), and these
organizations were promoted vigorously by the project from its outset. The original intention was to transfer only
4 1996 figure supplied by district water enterprises.
5 Tirane, Laci, Durres, Kruje, Kavaje, Lushnje and Fier.



55
management of tertiary facilities to WUAs. This however, was quickly seen to be too modest a target6. In 1995
WUAs were restructured on hydraulic units (multiples of secondary canals). The Irrigation and Drainage Law was
then amended to permit transfer of secondary canal and drainage systems to these WUAs.   Under the second
project some 200 WUAs were established, and upon project completion, management of all the rehabilitated
secondary systems was transferred.  In 1998, noting the inadequate performance of water enterprises, the
government recognized that these organizations were holding back the irrigation sector, and endangering the success
of the WUA initiatives. The government therefore piloted the transfer of primary systems and headworks to
federations of WUAs. By completion of the first project some 10 federations had been established, and surveys
indicated that WUA leaders and farmers were more satisfied with the performance of federations than with the
former water enterprises. The policy of transfer of primary, as well as secondary irrigation systems, almost
completely removes irrigation from the responsibilities of water enterprises.
The creation of WUAs and management transfer was a national policy that was applied throughout Albania. In
addition to developments in the seven districts under the first irrigation rehabilitation project, the parallel IFAD-
financed rehabilitation project worked in a further six districts in the hill areas. IFAD also financed the operation of
a small unit in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to establish WUAs across the rest of the country. The concept
and the advantages of WUAs are now known and accepted across the country and within all levels of government.
Performance of the Irrigation Systems
It is reported that under the former regime some 270, 000 ha were irrigated annually, representing an irrigation
intensity of 70%. The success of the past was achieved under the following circumstances, most of which no longer
pertain:
i. Functional irrigation system (except in the first project area);
ii. Disciplined management of main system;
iii. Rotation of irrigation to fields under disciplined management; and
iv. Night-time irrigation.
It is very likely that irrigation in the past was always imperfect: the lack of controls on the main system suggest that,
even with the above factors, there would have been significant distribution losses; and the field irrigation technique
when applied universally can lead to serious losses, especially at night. Crops probably did not receive more than
75% of their full irrigation requirements, indicating an overall system irrigation efficiency of about 40%.
In contrast in 1996 only some 120,000 ha was irrigated - this represents about 30% of the total service area. To
compound this problem, the quality of irrigation was poor with most areas receiving only one irrigation. This is
partially the result of inadequate supply, due to substandard infrastructure7, but is also due to the demise of factors
(ii), (iii) and (iv) above.
Strategy for the Irrigation Sub-Sector
In summary, the above analysis of the irrigation sub-sector indicates it is under-performing due to the following
principal problems:
* many systems are deteriorated and inoperative (outside the first project area);
* in 'as-designed' condition the systems are very simple and incapable of meeting the full needs of the
private farm sector;
* irrigation management is very weak;
* field irrigation techniques are crude;
* cost recovery is poor, so that systems are not yet sustainable.
6 The 12 ha tertiary units are clearly too small for associations to be sustainable.
7In 1996 rehabilitation works did not achieve their full impact, mostly because pumps were not installed before the irrigation
season.



56
However, there are also a number of widely recognized difficulties in relation to the development of Albania's
agriculture sector, that are entirely unrelated to irrigation. These include:
* Small and fragmented farms;
Deficiencies in input supply - seed, fertilizer, chemicals, appropriate equipment;
* Insufficient extension information;
* Inadequate markets and marketing information;
* Transportation deficiencies.
Clearly a strategy for the irrigation sub-sector must recognize that improvements in irrigation should parallel general
development of the agriculture sector. It is important that the irrigation sub-sector does not get out of step - either
by falling behind and becoming a constraint, or by outpacing the rest of the sector and consequently wasting
investment. Due to the many impediments it is clearly impractical to immediately lift Albanian irrigation to
European standards, and therefore a step-by-step approach is proposed. The logical steps in this program are as
follows:
Table 1
Step   Physical               Institutional improvement    Notes and comments
Improvement
I      Reinstate system to    .   Establish WUAs for       First project strategy, achievements:
original condition        sustainable management  40% of service area irrigated
.   secondary system         30% overall efficiency
transfer
2      Improve main canal    .   Establish federations     All irrigation management transferred
control structures    .   Primary system transfer  to WUAs/FWUAs
*   Improve main canal       Primary canal improvements with
management               water management training to
*   Strengthen drainage      provide equitable supply to WUAs.
system management        Water Enterprises re-structured to
improve drainage service
3      Measurement at         Re-establish:                WUAs improve internal irrigation
secondary canal head   *   Tertiary rotations      management, achievements:
*   Night irrigation         70% of service area irrigated
50% overall efficiency
4      Improve on-farm        None required                Private initiative, farmers or WUAs
irrigation & tertiary                              expected to invest in small sprinkler
distribution                                       sets
5      Remodel main canals  None required, existing
and line for increased   Federations capable
efficiency
6      Remodel secondary    None required, existing        Final achievement:
canals and structures,  WUAs capable                100% of service area irrigated
fully lined system                                 70% overall efficiency
The strategy of the first project precisely followed Step I as outlined above. It primarily involved the reinstatement
of irrigation and drainage systems to their design condition in order to get water flowing again. In addition WUAs
were established and the management of secondary systems transferred to these newly created entities to ensure
sustainability of repairs. This was done in seven coastal districts where irrigation and drainage were of particular
significance. The achievements of this initial project are noted in Section 4 and 5 above. It is proposed that the
second project consolidate these achievements, and extend scope to Steps 2 and 3.



57
Main Tasks for the second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project
According to the above strategy the primary tasks for the second project would be:
*   Extend the first project activities (Step 1 - irrigation and drainage system reinstatement, establishment of WUAs
and secondary system transfer) across the country;
*   Establish federations of WUAs and transfer management of these systems (Step 2, already piloted by the first
project);
*   Strengthen WUA movement and provide training to obtain more efficient distribution of irrigation water
between their members and to ensure their sustainability;
*   Improvement of primary system infrastructure (in both first and second project areas) to facilitate equitable
distribution of water between member WUAs;
*   Strengthen federations to raise their level of service (introduce principle of equity in irrigation supply) and to
ensure their sustainability;
*   Restructure district water enterprises, in recognition of the transfer of their irrigation responsibilities to WUAs
and FWUAs, so as to improve their level of service in drainage and ensure sustainability.
Achievement of these objectives would lead to a reduction of irrigation distribution losses, so that the overall
efficiency would rise to about 50%, allowing full irrigation of up to 70% of the service area, and reinstatement of the
pre-1990 condition. Drainage would also be restored to its full effectiveness.
The second project could also contribute to further development in the sub-sector (in particular Step 4) by
facilitating exposure to modem irrigation techniques, both at field and system level, for farmers, WUA leaders and
Ministry staff, and thereby creating a demand and initiative for further improvements.
Future Prospects
Completion of Steps 1, 2 and 3 as described in the above strategy would leave the irrigation sub-sector well short of
European performance standards. Outstanding deficiencies are highlighted below, noted in their order of
importance, and in recommended order of treatment:
Field irrigation deficiencies
The "brazda" method of field irrigation, which is almost universal use, is crude and can lead to high losses. It is also
unsuitable for many crops and is labor intensive. Additionally the method is not desirable for irrigation of wheat or
alfalfa, which are the major crops, and respond well to irrigation. Under the first project furrow and border-strip
irrigation was introduced, but did not receive universal acclaim. Primarily, it is thought that this innovation was not
successful because it was premature and farmer's attention was then focussed on the external difficulty of getting
water to their field. Additional contributing problems include (i) the prior requirement for land shaping, and (ii)
farmers prefer mounded fields which facilitate winter drainage. On completion of the second project the "brazda"
method of field irrigation will be the next major constraint to irrigation development. Unless this method of
irrigation is changed there can be no further improvements in irrigation or agriculture.
The most appropriate field irrigation technique is now considered to be sprinklers. Using this method all crops
could be irrigated and there would be no objections or additional costs. Small sets could be purchased by individual
farmers, and could operate from sumps adjacent to and supplied by the tertiary canals. This initiative should be left
to independent farmers. However, it is hoped that exposure to European practice through study tours to be
organized under the proposed second project will encourage farmers to make this next step.
Tertiary canal deficiencies
Tertiary canals, which serve 12 ha blocks, are for the most part private property. It is likely that improvements to
these canals would have to rely on private initiatives - which is also likely to be contingent on land consolidation
and enlarged commercial farms. Once farmers invest in sprinklers they are likely to become increasingly aware of
the tertiary canal losses. On a typical large system of 3,000 ha there might be 15 km of main canal, 50 km of



58
secondaries and 150 km of tertiaries. The losses from the earth tertiaries (whose banks are insubstantial, and where
command over the ground is obtained throughout their length) are likely to be similar per meter to secondary canals,
but they cover three times the length, and none are lined. Improvements to tertiary canals is therefore considered to
be an issue for private farmers following development of commercial agriculture on larger farms, when the tertiary
canals will effectively become farm ditches.
Main canal deficiencies
The existing main system, even if equipped with measurement devices as proposed under the second project, will
still not meet high management and efficiency demands and will eventually require remodeling. In particular,
because of the lack of control devices, the main canals will act as a constraint when irrigation demand is low or
sporadic (e.g., if there is a demand for irrigation for wheat either in late autumn or spring). There exist a number of
options for improvement, but all would require some degree of remodeling and re-construction, as well as the
provision of additional structures and canal lining. Such work would require substantial investment, and should
therefore depend on prior demonstration of the strength, capability and sustainability of the concerned WUAs and
Federations. While these improvements could potentially be funded in the future by Government, through a private
sector loan to FWUAs/WUAs, or a combination of the above, with a contribution from farmers, they are premature
for the time being.
It is likely that such improvements will only follow improved field irrigation - it is only when farmers begin to
demand irrigation outside what is now the generally agreed irrigation season that the real deficiencies of the primary
facilities will become apparent. Prior to this, farmers will undoubtedly demand lining of the main (and secondary)
canals to reduce losses. Such demands should be carefully examined, and all expenditure on all new canal lining
should be minimized until the canals can be properly remodeled. To fully line the system without remodeling is
likely to later result in a considerable waste of resources.
Secondary canal deficiencies
It is likely that the remodeling of the secondary canals will be required only after the primaries. This is because the
existing deficiencies in secondaries will be less acute. Nevertheless, remodeling will be necessary for similar
reasons. Whilst the most likely remodeling of the primary canals will be for sophisticated computer-controlled
dynamic management solutions, the secondary canals would be more suitable for a semi-automatic or manually
operated system, and the investment costs would be lower. These improvements could be funded from farmer's
contributions, or through a private sector loan to WUAs, and could be introduced gradually over a number of years.
Further issues
The later steps in the above strategy will require further supporting institutional and legal developments. Three
issues which will definitely require attention in the medium term, but which remain beyond the immediate scope of
the second project, are as follows:
•   Development of the water sector and issuance of licenses, to protect existing water users from pollution and
prevent water shortages;
*   Development of legal water rights to protect existing users, to strengthen irrigation discipline and to facilitate
further investment in irrigation development;
*   Control of groundwater abstraction for irrigation which by over-drawing aquifers might harm  domestic
supplies;
*   Introduction of service charges for drainage.



59
ANNEX 4
CURRENT ISSUES IN WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Background
With comparatively high rainfall - from 1000mm in the plains up to 2000mm in the mountains - Albania is endowed
with considerable surface water resources on which the country is dependent for both power and irrigation. Albania
contains five large dams, located on the major rivers, allowing hydro-power to meets **% of Albania's power
needs. In addition, river diversions supplemented by over 600 irrigation dams on smaller rivers and streams,
provided in the past for up to 400,000 ha of irrigation. Groundwater resources are used exclusively for domestic
and industrial water supplies.
The collapse of the polluting industrial sector and the reduction in demand for irrigation which followed the fall of
the past regime have left the country in a relatively comfortable situation with regard to both water quantity and
quality. However, the strong principle of central water resource management established under the former regime
was not translated into the new government, and there are now no longer any institutions effective in the
management of water resources. Because of the abundant water resources there is no immediate crisis, but this
situation should be addressed before developments upset the existing individual catchment water balances and lead
to local deficiencies and dispute.  Two factors might cause this in the medium term: (i) the upswing of water
demand for irrigation due the rehabilitation projects and the recovery of the agriculture sector, and (ii) the rapidly
developing private sector and urbanization process which may create localized water crises and environmental
damage.
Current Institutional Framework
Albania enacted a new framework Water Resource Law (No 8093 of March 1996) designed to establish the
institutions for water resource management. Under the Law, two new and specific bodies to be responsible for
overall water resource management were created, namely: the National Water Committee to be the central decision-
making policy body comprising all Ministers involved in the water sector and chaired by the Prime Minister, and its
Technical Secretariat, to be the country's water administration body, reporting to the Office of the Prime Minister.
Unfortunately both new bodies have so far been largely ineffective.
The National Water Committee has met very few times since its creation and has made no significant policy
decisions, this is attributed to:
*  frequent changes in the cabinet's composition and in the re-distribution of responsibilities for the line
ministries;
*  limited perception and knowledge of water-related issues from the members of the National Water Committee;
*  a number of responsibilities for water resource management pertain to Govemment bodies not represented in
National Water Committee.
Similarly, the Technical Secretariat has been ineffective, and this is attributed to:
*  inadequate staff, which currently comprises only the Director, with a limited budget;
limited contact between Technical Secretariat and the National Water Committee members and the low priority
they attribute to water issues;
*  the position of the Secretariat, which reports to the Office of the Prime Minister, where in recent years water has
not been a significant issue.
The Water Resource Law also provides for the establishment of River Basin Authorities. But whilst the Technical
Secretariat has recognized six independent basins, and proposes the establishment of embryo authorities with limited
initial responsibilities and staff, the National Water Committee has so far not endorsed and implemented the step.



60
The responsibilities for management and development of water using infrastructure remains otherwise unaffected by
the 1996 Water Resources Law. Current responsibilities are as follows: individual municipalities are responsible
for domestic and industrial water use; the national electrical power utility, "KESH", for hydropower use and the
hydro-power dams; the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is responsible for irrigation use, the irrigation dams and
drainage and flood control through its district water enterprises; and the Hydrometric Institute is responsible
nationally for collection, processing and data analysis.
The deterioration in the performance of the district water enterprises, which has led to the policy of irrigation
management transfer, which is a key feature in both the first and second irrigation rehabilitation projects, has
reduced, and almost eliminated their contribution to water resource management. A similar deterioration in the face
of budgetary constraints, has reduced the effectiveness of the Hydrometric Institute - there are now serious
deficiencies in the national data record, and no new programs reflecting more modem environmental consciousness
have been initiated.
Main Issues in Water Resource Management
It is clear that the primary current issue in the sector is the delay in implementation of the provisions of the Water
Resources Law and the associated weaknesses of the National Water Committee and its Technical Secretariat. No
clear government strategy for the sector has yet emerged. The Technical Secretariat is requesting additional
resources to develop their role as the central water administration body. A report on the "National Water Strategy
for Albania", prepared in 1997 with the assistance of the European Union, suggests more radical institutional
priorities, with the objective of establishing clear lines of policy decision-making responsibility within the
institutional set-up including the National Water Committee and the relevant line ministries. However, there is no
indication that the Government intends to implement such recommendations.  Other options to consider would be
the transfer of responsibility for water to a line ministry.
With the continuing inadequate management and control of the sector 'the situation deteriorates. There is no legal
basis for abstraction and use of water (as noted in Annex 5); no register or record of abstractions; the data collection
and monitoring service is ineffective and incomplete. Meanwhile private enterprise is flourishing and placing
pressure on the environment, including: use and abuse of upstream catchments, development within flood plains,
uncontrolled surface water abstraction, exploitation of groundwater and mining of sand and gravel in river beds.
The Technical Secretariat is aware of the deficiencies in management of the sector, and has identified the following
five priority areas for action, but lacking resources and appropriate institutions is unable to address the issues:
*   illegal pumping from aquifers by the private sector (generally for irrigation) which threaten the availability and
quality of domestic and industrial supplies which depend solely on groundwater;
*  poor efficiency of the main drainage and flood control facilities leading to flood damage in major towns as well
as agricultural areas;
*   insufficient dam safety threatening the lives and property of many living in close proximity to more than 600
dams supplying irrigation water;
*  deterioration of the hydrological measurement system for both surface and ground water, thus preventing the
monitoring of regional and local water balances;
*  uncontrolled sand and gravel extraction from river beds by the construction industry;
Contribution by the proposed second project
The second project will address or assist the first four of the five priority concerns for water resource management
listed above. This would be achieved through the following project components:
* Reduce private groundwater abstraction: the project will rehabilitate main irrigation systems, which will limit -
private investment in wells by providing a reliable and cheaper source alternative source of water;



61
*  Strengthen drainage andflood control: the project will restructure Water Enterprises and establish Drainage
Boards,: which will lead to a more effective and sustainable management of the major drainage and flood control
systems;
*  Dam safety: the project will implement dam safety inspections and repairs of dams under the project, train local
consultants in dam safety procedures and provide support a central dam safety register;
*  Data collection: the project will instigate and supervise the collection and recording of data on irrigation
abstraction and water use by water users associations and federations, which are the major consumer of surface
water.
The physical investments and other actions associated with these components would cover only the project area -
specifically, the seven districts covered by the first project and the thirteen additional districts joining the second
project. However, each component would include sector-wide policy decisions and institution building, thus laying
the foundation for improvements in other regions.
Options for further assistance
As major institutional issues plague the water resource sector - in particular the serious lack of Government
commitment to improving water resource management, a questionable institutional setup, and some flaws in the
Water Resources Law - to address such issues would require a specific policy-oriented water resource management
project. However, unless the Government gives an explicit signal that it intends to give more priority to the water
resource sector, there is little rationale for the IDA to support the required sectoral policy reforms and institution
building programs. Nevertheless, the proposed second project would contribute to solutions of several key issues,
and during the lifetime of the project the IDA could maintain a dialogue with the Government and be ready to
explore the potential for further support when there is evidence of commitment.



62
ANNEX 5
LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Introduction
This annex contains a description and analysis of the existing legal and regulatory frameworks relating to (i) the
irrigation and drainage sector, (ii) water resource management, (iii) land tenure and use and (iv) environmental
protection, in so far as they are relevant to the design of the proposed second project.
Irrigation And Drainage Sector
One of the main challenges currently facing the GOA is the re-establishment of the rule law. One of a number of key
requirements for this is the existence of clear and comprehensive legislation. The need for clear and comprehensive
legislation, which defines the rights and duties of all of the relevant actors, is particularly important in the irrigation
sector where substantial powers are delegated to WUAs and FWUAs. Furthermore, the existing legal framework is
not appropriate for the proposed design of the second project.
The main item of legislation is Law No. 7846, 'On the Construction, Administration, Maintenance and Operation of
Irrigation and Drainage Works' dated 21 July 1994 (amended on 28 March 1996) which is referred to in this Annex
as the 'Irrigation and Drainage Law'. Two sets of implementing regulations have been issued pursuant to this law:
the first set concerned WUAs and were issued in August 1994 ('the WUA Regulations'), and amended in 1996
following the amendments to the IDL, while the second were issued in March 1998 and deal with FWUAs ('the
FWUA Regulations').
The Irrigation and Drainage Law is outdated in that it does not reflect recent developments in the sector, such as the
establishment of FWvUAs, which are not referred to at all. FWUAs have been established entirely on the basis of the
FWUA Regulations. In view of the important role which FWUAs will play in the proposed second project, it is
essential that such provisions are set out in primary legislation, particularly in Albania where notwithstanding their
theoretical legal status, regulations are perceived as a rather secondary form of legislation which can be easily
changed.
While the Irrigation and Drainage Law purports to provide the legal basis for WUAs, in conjunction with provisions
on associations in the Civil Code, it contains very few provisions on either their establishment or operation. Instead,
these are contained in the WUA Regulations. Again, in view of the importance of the substantive legal rights and
duties which these regulations create conceming the establishment and operation of WUAs, such provisions should
also be set out in primary legislation. Of course in the case of both WUAs and FWUAs it may be appropriate to
leave more detailed matters to regulations.
Furthermore, the legal framework, as contained in the law and regulations, omits or fails to deal adequately with a
number of rather important issues. These include: (i) the maintenance of adequate books and accounts by WUAs
and FWUAs; (ii) the powers of the WUA General Meeting; (iii) the rights and duties of WUA members; (iv) the
precise tasks of WUAs and FWUAs; (v) the nature of the relationship between FWUAs and member-WUAs; and
(vi) technical and financial supervision of WUAs and FWIUAs. At the same time, this legal framework has been
created with the large WUAs on the coastal plains in mind. The institutional structures which it prescribes are over-
dimensioned for the needs of smaller WUAs outside the coastal plains which may participate in the proposed second
project. Such WUAs are currently unable to comply with specified requirements.
Finally, the existing legal framework is unclear. It is scattered among two laws (the Civil Code and the Irrigation
and Drainage Law) and two sets of regulations. In addition, the Irrigation and Drainage Law is not drafted in a
clear manner. It is not clearly ordered and yet repetitive, with the effect that the same or closely related issues are
dealt with twice in completely separate parts of the law. While some concepts are defined in excess detail, the same
terms are then used in an inconsistent manner throughout the law. Furthermore, the term 'irrigation and drainage
system' is used throughout the law. While this was perfectly acceptable in 1994 when the law was drafted, now that
drainage is to be separately addressed by the proposed second project in the context of the restructuring of the WEs,
a distinction needs to be made between drainage systems and irrigation systems. This would entail amending the
large number of the articles in the law which refer to 'irrigation and drainage systems'.



63
Following on from this point, the Irrigation and Drainage Law does not contain any legal basis for the proposed
restructuring of the Water Enterprises and the establishment of Drainage Boards, again because such matters were
not considered in 1994 when the law was drafted. Such provisions will clearly be necessary for the effectiveness of
the proposed second project.
In conclusion, in view of the importance to the proposed second project of having a clear and comprehensive legal
framework for the irrigation and drainage sectors, and the sheer number of amendments which it would be necessary
to make to the Irrigation and Drainage Law, it is recommended that the existing legal framework be consolidated
into a new Law 'On Irrigation and Drainage'. A draft law 'On Irrigation and Drainage' has been prepared. Apart
from dealing with those issues which the current framework either fails or inadequately addresses, this draft should
be seen as largely consolidating and clarifying the existing framework, while at the same time making possible the
new developments in the sector which will addressed under the proposed second project. The only really new
provisions contained in the draft law relate to the establishment and operation of Drainage Boards and the gradual
transfer to them of specific tasks and functions in the drainage sector.
Additional legal work will be required, for example regarding the preparation of statutes for the Drainage Boards
and regulations under the new law, and technical assistance will be provided for this under the proposed second
project.
Water Resource Management
The principal item of water legislation is Law No. 8093, "On Water Resources" dated 21 March 1996, referred to in
this Annex as the WRL. This is a framework law, which seeks to establish institutional arrangements of water
management and to regulate all aspects of the use of Albania's waters as a single resource.
The main point to emphasize about the WRL is that it is at present largely un-implemented. The necessary
subsidiary legislation has not yet been prepared and the implementing agencies that the WrRL calls for have either
still to be established or have yet to be properly staffed or funded. Indeed, it appears that the implementation of the
WRL will be extremely difficult under the current inter-ministerial arrangements which it provides for. The
practical consequences of this situation are that there is at present no functioning water administration in Albania
and therefore no coordinated water quantity or quality monitoring, systematic data collection and analysis or
catchment water management. The key legal consequence of this situation is that as systems for authorizing the use
of water are not being implemented, WUAs and FWUAs do not have legal rights to use or abstract specified
quantities of water.
While in practice, in view of the abundance of Albania's water resources, this situation poses no immediate threat to
the proposed project, failure to implement the WRL may have long term consequences for the irrigation sector. An
EU Phare project to provide support for the implementation of the WRL has recently begun. In addition, the use of
water by WUAs and FWUAs will be monitored during project implementation and if necessary recommendations
will be made for further action on water management and the implementation of the WRL. A memorandum on
water rights has been prepared during preparations so as to begin a policy dialogue on this issue.
Land Tenure and Use
Albania's land reform program began in 1991 and the process of distributing agricultural land is now largely
completed9. Formal titles have been issued following the surveying and registration of approximately 54% of this
land. Recent legislation has simplified procedures for the sale and purchase of agricultural land10 and the leasing of
such land is permitted under the Civil Code. The legal framework is therefore in place for the development of a land
8 Water Rights and the Regulatory Approach of the Water Resources Law, copy on file.
9 Some 170, 000 ha of agricultural land apparently remains undistributed. Some of this land is forest land which has been re-
classified; other land is either unwanted or the subject of disputes.
'0 Law No. 8337 'On the Transfer of Ownership of Agricultural Land, Forestry Land, Meadows and Pastures' of 30 April 1998.
abolished complex procedure of Law No. 7983 'On the buying and selling of agricultural land' of 27 July 1995 .



64
market and indeed the process of buying and selling agricultural land has begun. In addition, new land use planning
legislation has recently been enacted".
In most cases the land distribution program took account of the layout of the irrigation and drainage canals and strips
of land were left alongside these to permit access both for the operation and maintenance of the canals and to permit
access to the fields of land owners further down the canals. These strips of land, like the irrigation and drainage
canals themselves, remain in state ownership.
The main threat to the proposed project concerning land use relates to the construction of buildings on these strips
adjacent to the irrigation and drainage canals or even in certain cases over them. Consequently in these cases access
to the canals for operation and maintenance can be severely affected. Most of this construction is simply illegal on
the basis of inter alia land legislation 2, the Irrigation and Drainage Law and the new planning law. New legislation
is not required, however better enforcement of the existing legislation is recommended.
A different but related problem concerns access to irrigation and drainage canals and the ownership of canal side
strips. Occasionally, it appears that in certain districts the strips adjacent to smaller canals were distributed by the
relevant land distribution committee to neighboring landowners who have subsequently obtained legal title to these
strips. Problems can arise where the landowner refuses to grant access to the strip for operation and maintenance of
the canal or to other land owners who need to obtain access to their land. The simplest legal solution in this kind of
situation is to require WUA members to grant access to the WUA in respect of such land for the operation and
maintenance of the canal. In the case of people who are not WUA members, such cases can be a little more
complex and costly to resolve.  If the consent of the relevant land owners can not be obtained, provisions do
however exist in the Civil Code and the land registration legislation for the creation of servitudes.
Another potential problem relates to the claims of former owners of agricultural land. Such claims have no basis in
Albania's formal law as the land reform process took place on the basis that land was to be distributed in equal
amounts to the employees of the state farms and agricultural co-operatives rather than on the basis of restitution.
However, such claims do find support from Albania's customary laws and in some places former owners have
claimed back land on which irrigation infrastructure is located. Such unlawful land claims clearly have the potential
to disturb the effective operation of WUAs. Further legislation is not a solution to this problem which is social as
much as anything else. However, care should be taken to investigate the extent of such disputes prior to
commencing rehabilitation works, particularly on the lands of former agricultural co-operatives.
Environmental Protection
The principal item of environmental legislation is Law No. 7664, "On Environmental Protection" dated 2 February
1993. This is a framework environmental law which seeks to regulate all activities which may harm the
environment and establishes a system for environmental impact assessment and environmental licensing. It is on the
basis of this law that the National Environment Agency claims competence to require the preparation of
environmental impact assessments in respect of the rehabilitation works to be undertaken pursuant to the proposed
projects as well as environmental licenses. The legal basis for such requirements could certainly be strengthened as
the law itself is drafted in a rather general manner and while the Agency itself relies on draft implementing
regulations as an interim measure, being in draft, they have no legal effect.
'l Law No. 8405 'On Urbanistics and Planning' of 17 September 1998
12 The Law 'On Land' No. 7501 of 1991, prohibits construction on agricultural land which has not been re-zoned.



65
ANNEX 6
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Ibania
econd Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project                                              %     % Total
omponents Project Cost Summary                                            (USS)                Foreign   Base
Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs
A. System Rehabilitation
First Year Subprojects                                                    1,963.5     5,681.4      35       18
Other Subprojects                                                         5,259.8    21,021.1      25       65
Subtotal System Rehabilitation                                              7,223.3    26,702.5      27       82
B. Institutional Development
1. Support for WUAs and WUAs
Establishment of WUA Supervision Unit                                      61.2       61.2      100        -
Technical Support for WUAs and FWUAs                                    1,208.7     1,924.7      63        6
Subtotal Support for WUAs and WUAs                                        1,269.9     1,985.9      64        6
2. Support for Water Enterprises
Development of Restructuring Plan                                         138.7      160.1       87        -
Implementation Support                                                    188.7      245.8       77        1
Subtotal Support for Water Enterprises                                      327.4      406.0       81        1
3. Support for Private Providers
Technical Seminars and Workshops                                            5.1       63.8        8
Subtotal Institutional Development                                          1,602.4     2,455.7      65        8
C. Technical Studies
1. Improved Irrigation and Drainage Designs
Improved Design for Gates                                                  21.9       32.1       68        -
Improved Design for Pumpstations                                           33.7       39.8       85
Development of Design manuals                                              42.3       45.4       93
Development of Operation Manuals                                           43.9       48.5       91
Drainage Sector Study                                                     102.0      117.3       87
Annual Dam Inspections                                                     40.8       40.8       100       -
Subtotal Improved Irrigation and Drainage Designs                           284.6      323.9       88        1
2. Improved Environmental Managemeint
Pilot Communal Management of Micro Watersheds                             112.2      136.7       82        -
Best Agricultural Practice for Karavasta Lagoon                            25.5       42.8       60
Monitoring Program                                                         10.2       71.4       14        -
Subtotal Improved Environmental Management                                  147.9      250.9       59        1
Subtotal Technical Studies                                                    432.5      574.8       75        2
D. Project Implementation Support
1. Development of Investment Program
Feasibility Studies, environmental and social review for second phase rehabilitation  285.6  337.6  85     1
Development of Rehabilitation Plan for LUU-2                              112.2      127.5       88
Subtotal Development of Investment Program                                  397.8      465.1        86       1
2. Project Administration and Implementation Support
Technical Assistance to PMU                                               593.6     1,254.6      47        4
Support for Project Management Unit                                       272.3     1,008.8      27        3
Subtotal Project Administration and Implementation Support                  866.0     2,263.4      38        7
Subtotal Project Implementation Support                                     1,263.8    2,728.5       46        8
otal BASELINE COSTS                                                        10,522.0    32,461.4      32     100
Physical Contingencies                                                    1,188.9     4,103.3      29       13
Price Contngencies                                                          750.9     3,910.8      19       12
otal PROJECT COSTS                                                         12,461.8   40,475.5       31     125



66
Ibania
econd Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project
roject Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
US$)                                                                              Totals Including Contingencies
1999-2000    2001      2002       2003       2004      2005      Total
A. System Rehabilitation
First Year Subprojects                                      6,661.8         -          -          -          -       -      6,661.8
Other Subprojects                                                 -    6,648.0    6,883.0    6,991.9    6,681.0       -    27,203.9
Subtotal System Rehabilitation                                6,661.8    6,648.0    6,883.0    6,991.9    6,681.0       -    33,865.7
B. Institutional Development
1. Support for WUAs and WUAs
Establishment of WUA Supervision Unit                        44.1      22.5          -          -          -       -        66.6
Technical SupportforWJAs and FWUAs                          504.4     495.2      467.0      421.3      343.7        -     2,231.5
Subtotal Support for WUAs and WUAs                            548.5     517.7      467.0      421.3      343.7        -     2,298.2
2. Support for Water Enterprises
Development of Restructuing Plan                            112.2      58.3        6.0          -          -        -      176.5
Implementation Support                                        9.7      32.5       97.1       98.5       59.2       -       295.1
Subtotal Support for Water Enterprises                        121.9       90.8     103.1       96.5       59.2        -      471.6
3. Support for Private Providers
Technical Seminars and Workshops                             24.5      25.4       19.9        1.9        2.0        -       73.6
Subtotal Institutional Development                              694.8     633.9      590.0      519.7      404.9        -     2,843.3
C. Technical Studies
1. Improved Irrigation and Drainage Designs
Improved Design for Gates                                    34.9         -          -          -          -                34.9
Improved Design for Pumpstations                            43.1          -          -          -          -       -        43.1
DeveJopment of Design manuals                               49.1          -          -          -          -        -       49.1
Development of Operation Manuals                              3.3       5.2       45.9          -          -       -        54.4
Drainage Sector Study                                        49.7      50.8       29.0          -          -       -       129.5
Annual Dam Inspections                                        8.8        9.0       9.2        9.4        9.6        -       45.9
Subtotal Improved Irrigation and Drainage Designs             188.9      65.0       84.1        9.4        9.6        -      357.0
2. Improved Environmental Management
Pilot Communal Management of Micro Watersheds                74.1      75.8          -          -          -       -       149.9
Best Agrcultural Practice for Karavasta Lagoon               33.6      10.7        3.9          -          -       -        48.2
Monitoring Program                                           17.8      17.3       17.9       15.0       15.6       -        83.7
Subtotal Improved Environmental Management                    125.4     103.8       21.8       15.0       15.6        -      281.7
Subtotal Technical Studies                                      314.4     168.8      105.9       24.4       25.2        -      638.7
D. Project Implementation Support
1. Development of Investment Program
Feasibility Studies, environmental and social review for second pha  92.3  94.4   94.8       97.0          -        -      378.5
Development of Rehabilitation Plan for LUU-2                105.0      11.3       11.5       11.7          -        -      139.4
Subtotal Development of Investment Program                    197.3      105.7     106.3      108.7          -        -       517.9
2. Project Administration and Implementation Support
Technical Assistance to PMU                                 345.7     287.9      285.2      270.6      255.4        -     1,444.8
Support for Project Management Unit                         410.3     175.8      201.6      189.8      187.6       -      1,165.0
Subtotal Project Administration and Implementation Support    755.9     463.7      486.8      460.4      443.0        -     2,609.9
Subtotal Project Implementation Support                         953.2     569.4      593.1      569.1      443.0        -     3,127.8
otal PROJECT COSTS                                            8,624.2    8,020.1    8,172.0    8,105.1    7,554.1      -    40,475 5



67
ANNEX 7
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS SUMMARY
An economic analysis has been carried out for eight irrigation and drainage schemes which would potentially be
rehabilitated under the proposed project. The project's economic benefits would mainly accrue through: (a) increase
in yield, (b) conversion to higher value crops; and (c) increase in cropping intensity. Considering prevailing factors
affecting the deve]opment of agriculture, such as: constraint in marketing, fragmented land ownership, antiquated
on-farm irrigation technology, lack of quality input (in particular, seed) and absentee land ownership, conservative
scenarios have been adopted as the basis for estimating economic rates of retum. In particular, these scenarios
assume that it will take 5 years after rehabilitation for farmers to fully resume irrigation and switch to higher value
crops. The with-project crop intensity was estimated based on the double cropping of alfalfa. The estimation of the
economic rate of return is based on the assumption of 25 years of project life.
The rehabilitation costs used for this analysis are seemingly higher from those described in Attachment I to Annex 2
(subproject descriptions). This is because costs used in economic analysis include various items such as : tertiary
canal rehabilitation (which would be carried out by farmers), additional lining and structures to be installed based on
WUAs' demand (which would be carried out by the project, but would be financed by WUAs) in order to estimate
subprojects' economic viability rather conservatively. The following table summarize the costs used for each
subprojects;
Table A. Estimated Rehabilitation Costs
Subproject        Estimated Rehabilitation Cost
(Financial Cost, US$million)
KOU-1                      4.060
VLU-3                      1.931
LUU-2                      2.139
LUK-5                      0.749
SHU-4                      1.645
LEU-3                      4.520
BRU-4                      0.949
ELU-3                      1.039
BRU-3                      3.044
The project cost, including rehabilitation, operation and maintenance costs, has also been converted to economic
prices. In particular, efforts have been made to identify the unskilled labor component of tertiary infrastructure
construction expenditures. A shadow wage of lek 280 (about US$2) per day is used to convert the unskilled labor.
This value is considered reasonable, particularly given the high levels of national unemployment, which is most
acute in rural areas. The following assumption have been made to estimate the economic rate of return:
*  VAT, which accounts for 20 percent of the civil works, has been eliminated from the economic c6st;
*  Rehabilitation of tertiary schemes, which would be carried out by farmers, have been included in the project
costs;
*  The project costs also include possible construction of bridges which would be implemented and paid by
farmers;
*  Lek 9 (US$6.5 cents) per kWh has been used for electricity price (this is the price at which Albania currently
purchases power from neighboring countries);
Prices for various crops have been estimated based on: (a) the World Bank commodity price forecast for
internationally traded crops (wheat, maize grain), and (b) market prices for other crops. Alfalfa and other fodder



68
crops are not sold on the market, and their prices have been estimated based on the value of livestock production.
The output is summarized in Table B;
Table B: Estimated Crop Prices
Crops             Price (lek/kg)
Wheat                                25.7
Brassicas                             15.0
Alfalfa /I                            5.0
White Bean                          120.0
Maize Grain                          26.1
Potato                               30.0
Tomato                                15.0
Melon                                 9.0
Winter fodder/I                       4.0
Maize fodder/I                        4.0
The crop intensity, yield increase, and cropping patterns have been estimated with and without rehabilitation for
each subproject based on the current agricultural practice and farmers' plans for future cropping with resumed
irrigation services. An increase in cropping intensity is expected to arise from a moderate decrease in wheat
production and increase in summer vegetables. The table below summarizes the increase in cropping intensity for
nine subprojects. It should be noted that cropping intensity may in reality decrease at some irrigation schemes by
the year 2005 due to the likely physical deterioration of facilities in the absence of the project.
Table C: Assumed Cropping Intensity for With and Without Project Scenarios
Scheme                   Without Project (°iO)  With Project (2005) (%)
ELU-3 (Elbasan)                146(current)                  152
129(after five years)
KOU-l(Gjanc)                         132                     139
LUK-S (Terbuf)                130 (current)                  141
_    140(after five years)
VLU-3 (Llkatund)               122(current)                   122
119 (after five years)
SHU-4 (Zadrima)                156(current)                   156
131 (after five years
LEU3 (Zadrima)                164(current)                   164
131 (after five years
BRU3 (Brerat-Ure)                      127                    146
LUU-2 (Divjaka)                       127                     146
BRU-4 (Gorican)                       127                     146
The most significant incremental benefit of the proposed project is the anticipated increase in crop yield. Even
without any change in technology, the reduction of the seasonal moisture deficit and resolution of drainage problems
as a result of rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage canals, almost certainly generates yield increase for all crops,
including winter crops. However, irrigation is but a one input to agricultural production. Given the number of
existing constraints in other inputs (e.g. seeds, fertilizers, and technology) very conservative assumptions have been
made in developing the with-project and without-project scenarios for each irrigation and drainage scheme. The
average yield increase for various crops were projected for each of the above nine schemes, depending on current
levels of irrigation service and yields, local rainfall, soil conditions, and access to markets. The following table
illustrates assumed yield increases for Scheme KOU- I. It should be noted that while most of crops projected about
5 percent yield increases, the increase in yield of wheat and alfalfa were forecast to increase 40 and 100 percent
respectively, with irrigation.



69
Table D: Assumed Crop Yield Increases in KOU-1 - for With and Without project scenarios
:nit: ton per hectare
Crop                             Present (1998)          Without Project (2005)       With Project (2006)
Wheat                                            3.0                        3.0                         4.5
Brassicas                                       18.0                        18.0                       19.0
Alfalfa (rainfed)                               15.0                        15.0                       16.2
Alfalfa (irrigated)                             N.A.                       N.A.                        35.0
White Bean                                       1.0                         1.0                        1.5
Maize Grain                                      4.0                        4.0                         5.5
Potatoes - main                                 19.0                        19.0                       21.0
Tomato                                          18.0                        18.0                       19.0
Winter Fodder                                   18.0                        18.0                       24.0
Maize Fodder                                    20.0                       20.0                        20.0
Cropping patterns tend to change gradually over periods of years because farmers are generally conservative in
changing their cropping patterns. In particular, the crop area for wheat is unlikely to decrease, because of farmers'
present reliance on subsistence agriculture. Conversion to higher value crops such as vegetables can only occur over
time as farmers become confident of the reliability of irrigation water and markets develop.. A separate cropping
pattern scenario for each proposed scheme has been developed. A scenario for KOU-I is attached as
Table E for illustration.
A sensitivity analysis was conducted in order to assess the response of the project to various risks. The following
risks were identified to have substantial impacts on the project's economic viability:
*  Scenario A: Failure to achieve full benefit of irrigation. Considering the current level of farmers' on-farm and
off-farm irrigation technology and the limited availability of high quality input (e.g. seeds, fertilizer),
rehabilitation works may not fully achieve the estimated increase in yield.. An alternative ERR was estimated
based on the assumption that only 50 percent of the increase in yield will be realized for all crops.
*   Scenario B: Delay in Increase in Crop Intensity and Conversion to Higher Value Crops. Development of
market-oriented agricultural production may require some time. In Albania this problem arises due to a variety
of reasons. In particular, there is no agro-industry to absorb surplus production; the country is in no position to
export agricultural production to neighboring countries due to quality and quarantine issues; land ownership is
fragmented (typically, farmers own 1.2 hectares in 4 to 5 parcels), and individual farmers' approach to
agriculture differs substantially, from small scale commercial farming to subsistence. Considering these factors,
an alternative ERR was estimated, assuming that it requires 10 years for farmers to fully respond to
rehabilitation works through conversion to higher value crops and the resumption of full cultivation in the
summer.
* Scenario C. A sensitivity analysis of the increase in rehabilitation cost was completed, examining the
possibility of unforeseeable additional rehabilitation works identified during project implementation.  An
alternative ERR was estimated assuming rehabilitation costs increased from the base cost by 20%.
* Scenario D. An alternative ERR was estimated based on an 50% increase in the cost of electricity, from the
base cost (lek 9 per Kwh).
The table below summarizes the economic rates of return (ERRs) for the subprojects and the results of the
sensitivity analyses. As proposed rehabilitation works are inexpensive (less than US$500 per hectare) but effective
in restoring access to reliable irrigation water, the expected ERRs are relatively high, ranging from 16.2 to 87.0
percent. Thus, all of the subprojects were found to be economically acceptable. The rehabilitation at LUK-5 was
found to be particularly economic, because of its relatively inexpensive works (only drainage rehabilitation).
A sensitivity analysis also confirmed that the proposed subprojects are robust against various risks, including
exogenous risks such as electricity price fluctuations. The detailed results of the economic analysis for each scheme
is available in the project file. An exception is the ERR for ELU-3 under Scenario A (2.3 percent). This anomaly
can be explained by the fact that most of the rehabilitation benefits arise from an increase in yield rather than crop
conversion: the farmers within the command have already shifted to vegetable production, despite inadequate



70
irrigation. A further review was undertaken and it was discovered that the likelihood of this risk occurring is low.
This is because farmers within the scheme expressed strong interest in utilizing restored irrigation services, and the
WUA managing the scheme has also been found to be very strong. The WUA has been managing the entire scheme
since 1998, organizing about 1,500 family members (representing 100 % participation), and achieving 97 percent of
cost recovery from its members, with total collection amounting  to lek 3 million (US$22,000) in 1998.
Nevertheless, the project would address irrigation practices at the scheme and provide training to the agronomists at
this WUA as a means of mitigating this risk.
Table E: Estimated ERRs and Results of Sensitivity Analyses for each Sub-project
Base Case    Scenario A    Scenario B     Scenario C    Scenario D
ELU-3 (Elbasan)        16.2          2.3           14.4          14.0         14.6
KOU-I(Gjanc)          32.2          20.3          28.3          28.3         32.1
LUK-5 (Terbuf)        87.0          47.0          75.0          80.2         86.5
VLU-3 (Llkatund)       19.2           7.2          15.1          16.9         n.a.
SHU-4 (Zadrima)        36.0          24.7          32.1          33.4         n.a.
LEU3 (Zadrima)        22.0           10.4          19.2          19.3        21.9
BRU3 (Brerat-Ure)      26.6           15.0         21.5           23.6        26.3
LUU-2 (Divjaka)       31.4           22.8          18.3          27.8         30.0
BRU-4 (Gorican)        19.3          7.7           14.0          17.1         18.0
Altemative ERRs are also estimated using various assumptions on the SCF, exchange rate, and shadow price of
labor. None of these items are found to have major impacts on the economic viability of the proposed subproject.



71
Table F. Sample Cropping Pattern with and without Project for KOU-1
Total net command area         5,445 ha
1998  1 1999  |  2000       2001     2002     2003     2004     2005    2006 - on
WITHOUT PROJECT
Irrigated
Wheat
- Brassicas 1/            -        -         -        -         -        -        -        -
-Alfalfa                817      817       817      817      817      817      817       817        817
- Sunflower               -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -           -
-White bean            109      109       109       109      109      109      109      109        109
-Maize grain            327      327       327      327      327      327      327       327        327
-Potatoes 2/            163      163       163      163      163      163      163       163        163
- Summer veg            109      109       109      109      109      109      109       109        109
- Other 3/              136      136       136      136      136      136      136       136        136
- Winter fodder           -        -         -        -         -        -        -        -          -
- Maize fodder                      -             -        -        -        -             -          -
Sub-total               1 661    1,661     1,661    1,661    1 661    1,661    1,661    1,661       1,661
Rainfed
- Wheat               2,015    2,015     2,015    2,015    2,015    2,015    2,015    2,015       2,015
- Brassicas 1/           54       54        54       54       54       54       54        54         54
- Alfalfa               817      817       817      817      817      817      817       817        817
- Sunflower               -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -          -
- White bean              -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -          -
- Maize grain             -        -         -        -         -        -        -        -          -
- Potatoes 2/             -        -         -        -         -        -        -        -          -
- Summer veg              -        -         -        -         -        -        -        -          -
-Other 3/               136      136       136      136      136      136      136       136        136
- Winter fodder         436      436       436      436      436      436      436      436         436
- Maize fodder          327      327       327      327      327      327      327       327        327
Sub-total               3,784    3,784     3,784    3,784    3,784    3,784    3,784    3,784       3,784
TOTAL FWOP              5,445    5,445     5,445    5,445    5,445    5,445    5,445    5,445
WITH PROJECT
Irrigated
- Wheat                            -         -      705    1,344    1,642    1,642    1,634       1,634
- Brassicasl/             -        -         -      218      272      327      381      436         436
- Alfalfa               817      817       817    1,225    1,220    1,239    1,241    1,198        1,198
- Sunflower               -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -          -
-White bean            109      109       109       109      163      218      272      327        327
- Maize grain           327      327       327      327      408      490      572       653        653
-Potatoes 2!            163      163       163      327      354      381      408       436        436
- Summer veg            109      109       109      163      231      299      368       436        436
- Other 3/              136      136       136      136      136      136       136      136        136
- Winter fodder           -        -         -      327      463      599      735       871        871
- Maize fodder                     -         -        -         -        -        -        -          -
Sub-total              1,661    1,661     1,661    3,537    4,591    5,331    5,756    6,126       6,126
Rainfed
- Wheat               2,015    2,015     2,015    1,310      576      182       86         -          -
- Brassicas 1/           54       54        54        -         -        -        -
- Alfalfa               817      817       817      408      305      177       65
- Sunflower               -        -         -        -        -        -        -
-White bean               -        -         -
-Maize grain              -        -         -        -         -        -        -
- Potatoes 2/             -        -         -        -         -        -        -
- Summer veg              -        -         -        -         -        -        -
- Other 3/              136      136       136      136      136      136      136       136        136
- Winter fodder         436      436       436        -         -        -        -        -          -
- Maize fodder          327      327       327      327      245      163       82         -          -
Sub-total              3,784    3,784      3,784    2,181    1,262      6591    370       136         136
TOTAL FWP              5,445    5,445      5,445    5,717    5,853    5,990    6,126    6,262       6,262
Note:
1/         Brassicas =Cabbage, Cauliflower               3/       Including fruit trees



72
ANNEX 8
FARM MODEL SUMMARY
A farm model has been developed for the nine possible subprojects by Hunting Technical Services using data from
socio-economic surveys. The modeling exercise was funded by a PHRD Grant. While the farm models differ from
scheme to scheme, in general, farmers benefiting from the project would have about 1 to 1.2 hectare of irrigatable
land within the project area. Many farmers are also found to have additional 0.5 to I hectares of land on hill slopes
which are used for grazing purposes. The farm model excluded the analysis of the project impact on these hillside
holdings, as is was considered negligible. A summary farm model for KOU-1 (Gjanc) is attached for illustration.
The detailed farm model is available in the project file.
The table below presents a summary of the farm model analysis. The table clearly indicates the substantial farming
income that is expected to accrue from the rehabilitation works. With-project net income estimates take into
account nominal water payments (lek 200) per application per hectare. This figure may potentially increase to up to
lek 2,000 per hectare if WUAs stop deferring maintenance and start charging the real cost of irrigation water to
farmers. However even with this price increase, the results suggest that farmers should be more than able to meet
their share of costs for irrigation water supply.
Table 1. With and Without Project Farm Income Summary
WITHOUT                              WITH
PROJECT,                          PROJECT, per
per holding                          holding
Subprojects     Average size of Net Return, all labor  Labor Use   Retums to Net Retum, all  Labor Use   Retums to
holdings (ha)  costed/not costed ($)   (day)  Labor    labor costed  (day)       Labor
($/day)  /not costed ($)            ($/day)
ELU-3 (Elbasan)             0.65          112/281         56        5.0      273/534          86         6.2
KOU-l(Gjanc)               1.25           85/400        104         3.8     594/1057         153         6.9
LUK-5 (Terbuf)             1.25           364/714        116        6.2     737/1238         165         7.5
VLU-3 (Llkatund)            0.90           125/333         68        4.9      414/689          91         7.6
SHU-4 (Zadrima)             1.20           88/398        102         3.9     627/1118        162          6.9
LEU3 (Zadrima)              1.25           20/323        100        3.2     598/1114         170         6.6
BRU3 (Brerat-Ure)            1.00          215/530        104        5.1      541/986         146         6.7
LUU-2 (Divjaka)             1.50           84/326         80         4.1    1027/1774        246         7.2
BRU-4 (Gorican)             0.80          173/424         83         5.1      433/788        117         6.7
The table above indicates that rehabilitation would increase the field labor requirement; however, the with-project
situation requires less than 250 person days per year at most (for LUU-2), which is well within the working capacity
of an average family (500 person days). The estimate includes about 15 days of works required for the maintenance
of tertiary canals. Based on above analysis, the project would provide an additional 20 to 160 days of work per
beneficiary household per annum, at a marginal wage rate far in excess of those available elsewhere in Albania.
Creation of so many days of decently remunerated work per hectare at a capital cost of less than US$500 hectares
(excluding rehabilitation cost for tertiary canals), is roughly equivalent to the creation of full time jobs at less than
US$2,500 per job, (ignoring the problems of seasonality and short-term employment for civil wbrks), a small
fraction of the cost of job creation in the formal employment sectors.
It is also evident that even with the project, the current farm size would be too small to provide an average family
with full time employment, or to provide adequate income to support a four or five person household. Consequently
family members would be required to seek off-farm employment to supplement farming income, even after
rehabilitation. This situation may improve with the possible intensification of irrigated agriculture over the coming
years, development of higher standards of quality of produce and improved market access. Ultimately however,
land constraints would limit the potential contribution of agriculture to Albanian employment and the Albanian
economy. It is expected that young people, in particular, will have to move into other sectors not dependent on this -
constrained land resource. In the interim, nevertheless, irrigated agriculture is probably the most efficient domestic
generator of employment, income, and welfare.



73
Table 2: Sample Farm Model for KOU-1
Crop retums                     Total areal  Cropped area       t iretum, all labour cosbd   Not   ,no labowur coebd
I      hl       %|h      ha[ US$pot ha  I US$      a W     UfSI   i he  I       fwbrmn
Without project
Wthin sub-Droiect                    1.25
(a) Ilrigated
- Maize grain                                   6      0.08           98              7            310            23
- Potatoes                                      3      0.04          581             22           1,051           39
- Tomatoes                                      2      0.03          465             12            890            22
- Other                                         5      0.06          381             24            808            51
Sub-total (a)
(b) Rainfed
- Wheat                                        37      0.46          -83            -39             38            18
-AlffaNf                                       30      0.38           72             27            444           187
- Brassicas                                     1     0.01           845             11          1,254            16
-White bean                                    2      0.03           225             6             428            11
-Winter fodder                                 8      0.10            82              a            280            28
-Maize fodder                                   6      0.08           98              7             354           27
Sub-total (b)                         1.3     100        1.3                         S5                           400
Total without-projecf net return - USS                                               85                           400
Total 'without-project' net retum - Leke                                          12,2l91                      8,064
With project
Wthin sub-oroeect                     1.3
(d) Imrigated
- Wheat                                        30       0.4          149             56             316          119
- Brassicas                                     8       0.1          944             94           1,354          135
- Alfalfa                                      22       0.3          841            178           1,088          299
- White bean                                    6       0.1          347             26            641            48
- Maize grain                                  12       0.2          270             41            543            e1
- Potatoes                                      8       0.1          875             88           1,408          141
- Tomatoes                                      8       0.1          517             52             972           97
- Other                                         5       0.1          381             24            808            51
- Winter fodder                                16       0.2          187             37            430           8s
Sub-total (a)                   _             115        1.41                       594                         1,057
(e) Rainfed                           0.0 0                                                            I             I
Total 'with-project' not return - US$                                               594                         1,057
Total 'with-project net return - Leke                                             86,066e                     153I2U
Incremental with-project return - USS                                               5091                          6 i57
Incremental with-project return - Leke                                            73,7771                      95,216
Labour use - workdays/holdinglyear - without project    104
Labour use - workdays/holding/year - with project       153
Retums to labour - USS/workday - without project         3.8
Retums to labour - US$tworkday - with project            6.9



74
ANNEX 9
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
Introduction
Feasibility studies including a social economic assessment were conducted by Consultants"3 at six irrigation and
drainage sub-projects included in the first phase of rehabilitation for the proposed project - these are BRU3 and
BRU4 in Berat, LEU3 in Lezhe, SHU4 and 5 in Skhoder, VLU3 & 4 in Vlore and KOUI in Korce. This annex
draws from information on both the feasibility studies and the social assessments.
General conclusions
Due to its relatively recent origins, there is a considerable uniformity in the private Albanian agricultural sector. As
a consequence there are common elements that underlie all sub-projects studied, despite their regional differences.
These common features include:
*  Land holding and tenure: land was privatized in 1991 and allocated equitably to a large proportion of the
population. Holdings are commonly about 1.5 ha, divided into approximately 4 plots, representing different
land classes. To date, there has been insufficient opportunity and motivation to change this pattern , and socio-
economic surveys indicate that only about 5% of the land is leased. It appears that land sales, which have been
allowed by the Law sincel998, have made no significant impact as yet agricultural sector: there are numerous
common difficulties currently faced in the agricultural sector, including the lack of markets, poor input supplies,
shortage of mechanization, and lack of credit, advice and information;
*  Lack of business skills: All farmers became farmers simultaneously, and although most have an agricultural
background, having been workers of former co-operatives and state farms, they have to face the above
difficulties when unequipped with entrepreneurial skills.
It was under these conditions that the agricultural sector was reborn in 1991, and as a result, the income from
farming is insufficient to support a family. This forces almost all rural families to depend on emigration, and
remittances. Most extended families have one mobile (male) member, generally aboard or in a major town, and his
remittances support the farms of other family members. Thus farming has remained a subsistence activity: wheat
for bread and alfalfa for cows, with a small cash income from livestock products and a few vegetables.
In 1998 signs began to appear that agriculture has survived its birth and is beginning to grow: investment in plastic
greenhouses, pumps and wells for irrigation, and land leased for commercial farming in larger units is noticeable.
As the social survey shows, irrigation and drainage is one of the more serious constraints, and it is a necessary
prerequisite to almost all possible developments in the sector.
Survey Results
LAND HOLDING
The size of land holdings varied from around 1.0 ha irrigated and 0.25 rainfed outside the scheme:
Holding                    BRU4       BRU3        LEU3    SHU4/5    VLU3/4         KOUI
Irrigated area, ha            0.8        1.0        1.3         1.1        0.9        1.3
Outside area, ha              0.3        0.2        0.1        0.2         1.0          0
IRRIGATED AREA
The proportion of land within irrigated holdings that is currently (1998) irrigated is around 20%, but this proportion
varies from scheme to scheme, depending primarily on the condition of the irrigation infrastructure, but also
influenced by other factors such as flooding, proximity to markets and labor resources.
3 Hunting Technical Services Ltd in association with Binnie Black and Veatch Ltd and Hidromont, December 1998.



75
Irrigated area            BRU4       BRU3       LEU3    SHU4/5    VLU3/4         KOUI
(% of irrigated plots)
%         26         26          5          7         22         31
CROPS CUL TIVA TED AND IRRIGA TED
There is a fairly wide difference in crop patterns between schemes, but a greater consistency within a scheme,
where, as a result of the land allocation policy, farmers generally hold several plots representing different land
classes and conditions. The differences between schemes are generally attributable to physical differences related to
irrigation and drainage problems. Where drainage is poor there is less wheat and more alfalfa, and a dependency on
livestock, where irrigation is bad there is a dependency on wheat and beans. As all irrigation schemes are
deteriorated very few farmers risk investment in high value vegetables.
The cropping intensity of all schemes is around 100% - this implies that nearly all land is cultivated either in the
summer or the winter.
Crops,                     BRU4    BRU3         LEU3   SHU4/5   VLU3/4    KOUI
(% of irrigated plots)
Wheat                          26        26        25         22        60        37
Fodder (mostly alfalfa)        27        27        61         59        20        44
Vegetables                     26        26          5         7        17          6
Other crops                    26        26         11        10         5         13
Total                         105       105        102        98       102        100
LIVESTOCK
Almost every household owns a cow (and follower), generally quartered near the home and fed on alfalfa and other
fodder crops. In addition to the sale of surplus milk products the cows are highly valued for their farmyard manure.
As well as cows, almost all households own poultry for consumption and sale. Whilst there are significant numbers
of sheep and goats around the irrigation schemes these are concentrated in only a few households, and are grazed in
adjacent hillsides. Most households do not own sheep or goats at all.
LABOR RESOURCES
There is very little difference in average labor resources between schemes, although there are the usual differences
between families.
Av resident family size   BRU4       BRU3 l   LEU3    SHU4/5    VLU3/4           KOUI
persons                      5.0        4.1        5.0        4.0        4.5        4.0
The majority of extended families have one (male) family member absent - seeking employment in a main town or
abroad. Most family incomes are supplemented by these non-farm earnings, however this depends heavily on
location. For example, in Vlore, every second farm family is missing one person, compared with the scheme
average of one person missing in every five farm families.
Of the resident family members, a significant number (about 10%) are in off-farm employment, this is about one to
every two families, and must represent a significant contribution to family income.
MECHANIZA TION AND FARM EQUIPMENT
Most farm families do not own a tractor. On average there exists about one tractor to every 15 families. This means
that families have a reasonable opportunity to hire tractors. Other large items of equipment are rare, but most
families own a cart or pack-animal.
FARM INCOME
Farm income shown in the following table is derived from the feasibility studies where a more rigorous approach to
the finances of agriculture was applied than in the survey. However, the figures tend to understate the income from
livestock. Farm incomes are currently around $400 per year, possibly 25% higher if more allowance is made for



76
livestock. This is clearly insufficient for subsistence needs, indicating the dependence of farmers on remittances and
off-farm sources.
PROBLEMS EXPERIENCED BY FARMERS
At almost every scheme the same list of problems were recorded. Problems associated withinputs, credit, marketing
as well as irrigation and drainage were most commonly quoted. The significance of irrigation and drainage
rehabilitation, which both clearly rank as the foremost agricultural constraint, is indicated in the following table.
Problems                 BRU4       BRU3       LEU3    SHU4/5   VLU3/4         KOUI
% recorded
Irrigation, severe            0         4         54        48         82         15
Irrigation, medium          100        96         23         29        16         59
Drainage, severe             55         14        46         73         0          0
Drainage, medium              0         2         31         15         15         0
Markets, severe              31         8          0          0         15         6
Markets, medium               0         18        31          9        40          0
Ag Inputs, severe             9         16         0          9         2         42
Ag inputs, medium            15         7         16         34         14         6
GENDER ISSUES
The transition through which Albania is passing is particularly acute in rural society, and even more so with respect
to the role of women. Whilst under the former regime the education, training and role of women in the work-place
was not greatly different to that of men, the disintegration of the system removed the employment opportunities and
much of the support, such as creches and canteens, which released women from some household responsibilities.
Women in farming households slipped back into household tasks, amplified by the need to obtain from the farm key
subsistence needs and a contribution to the family's cash income. Rural women are now more isolated, without the
former companionship of the workplace, and more bound to the home by their unavoidable commitment to
household and farm tasks.
As noted above, the small farms do not provide the family's income needs, so that more than half the households
lack one adult male in employment, placing much of the burden of the farm on the women. Surveys indicate that
about 50% of farm tasks are executed by women, adding to their burden of household responsibilities.
The gender section of the first project identified a number of issues:
*  Despite their farm responsibilities the women lack access to agricultural information because of their traditional
reticence in society, the social difficulties contacting generally male extension workers, and their ties to the
household.
*  Low representation of women as WUA members, and as members of WUA Administrative Councils;
*  Low awareness of gender issues in the PMU and low representation of women amongst the project's field
WUA staff.
The first project concentrated on addressing these issues, and achieved a measure of success, but women's
membership of WUAs remains low at less than 5%. In general, this is not necessary a bad indication, as in Albania,
male family members are almost always ' liason' of the family. However, further effort should be rnade to develop
a contact with female family members so as to assess their concerns over agriculture and monitor the project
impacts. These results should also be fed back to the WUAs management so that particular attention should be
made to female family members' opinions. While the project does not aim to specifically target on gender issue, the
project would establish an informal female committee at the two FWUAs (Kavaja and Elbasan) to collect their
opinions and concerns over agriculture and projects, monitor the project impacts on female farmer, and possibly,
develop a demonstration program based on their demand.



77
IMPACT OF THE (FIRST) IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Analysis'4 of the M&E survey conducted by the PMU following the 1998 irrigation season confirms the satisfaction
of the farmers with both the rehabilitation and the introduction of water users associations, and indicates the
following beneficial impacts of the first project on irrigated agriculture.
i- Inrease in irrigated area. In the rehabilitated area the project has increased the availability of water. The
proportion of their area which farmers consider to be irrigable has increased from 21% to 44% following
rehabilitation, with corresponding decreases in the proportion consider either partly or non-irrigable. However, the
non-irrigated area remains comparatively high at 42% largely because of the farmers commitment to wheat as a
subsistence crop (26% of the total area), so that a further steady increase in the irrigated area can be expected in the
future as the farmers switch to more valuable (irrigated) crops.
iA Changes in land tenure. The 1998 survey detected for the first time a significant move towards aggregation of
land through renting, about 10% of farmers interviewed rented additional land.
iiL Change in cropping pattern. No substantial changes in cropping pattern are yet observed by the survey, wheat
and alfalfa remain the most extensive crops, virtually unchanged at 26% and 32%. But there are indications of
changes to higher value crops with the small areas of water melon doubling and the cultivation of a second crop
increasing ten-fold.
iv. Increase in yield. The survey indicates that yields are definitely significantly increased by irrigation: 45% for
alfalfa, 36% for maize, 26% for beans, 31% for vegetables and 12% for water melon.
v. Impact on livestock. The survey indicates no significant increase in livestock numbers, possibly because of the
considerable off-take in 1997 at the time of the pyramid scheme collapse, but the increased production of fodder has
resulted in an increase in animal products, particularly in milk production which has increased 23% with
rehabilitation.
vi. Water management issues. Thesurvey confirmed that almost all farmers are members of water users
associations), that they are satisfied with the management of their scheme (86%), and that most (96%) consider their
association to provide a better service than the water enterprises did in the past. The survey also recorded a high
level of participation in water user association affairs, with most (96%) farmers attending at least one meeting in a
season.
The survey reports a high level of satisfaction with irrigation water distribution from 53% before rehabilitation to
83% after, and a similar improvement in reliability from 23% before rehabilitation to 60% after. The survey
indicates a high level (94%) of willingness to pay water charges, with 93% of farmers satisfied with the price. The
data indicates a very high collection rate of 70%.
Perception Vf the Proposed Second Project and Readiness to Participate
CURRENTSTA TUS OF WUAS
The current status of WUAs is fairly satisfactory. Whilst no WUAs or Federations are in a position to sign
rehabilitation agreements, all have made a 'satisfactory start. In all eight sub-projects WUAs are formed and
registered, their members have agreed to apply to the project for rehabilitation, they understand the demand-driven
principles and have developed their membership. The fully paid-up membership rate has reached the target 50%
laid down under the demand driven principles in six of the eight sub-projects. Support from the PMU continues
through the district Promoters and the formal creation of the remaining five federations, after meeting the
outstanding membership requirements is expected shortly. The PMU expects creation of the remaining federations
and system transfer in March, with the Rehabilitation Agreements signed in April.
Collection of the contribution toward rehabilitation of secondary systems has not started as this rehabilitation is not
scheduled until 1999/2000.
14 Report by Benoist Villerette, FAO CP, January 1999



78
Item                   BRU4   BRU3   LEU3  SHU4/5   PEU2   ELU3  VLU3/4   KOUI
Number WUAs                  3         12           7          2           1           1          2          10
Hydraulic base ?
Registered ?                Y           Y          Y           Y          Y           Y           y          y
Membership   %             58          53          36         59          39         62          55          52
[c]
Federation status    pending   pending   pending   pending    NA [b]    NA [b]   pending    formed
Agreement [a]               Y           Y          Y           Y          Y           Y           Y          Y
Collection [d]              ___
Transfer               started     started    started     started     started    started     started     started
Public                Dec'98    Dec'98    Dec'98    Dec'98    Nov'98    Nov'98    Dec'98    Dec'98
consultation
Notes
(a) Decision of General Council of WUAs to apply for rehabilitation according to the demand-driven procedures.
(b) A federation is not required as the scheme will comprise only one WUA.
(c) Fully paid-up members in 1998
(d) As first rehabilitation is of main canals and drains, the collection of the contribution for the secondary system rehabilitation has not yet
started.



79
ANNEX 10
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Assessment of Financial Management System
The Project Management Unit (PMU) of the existing project Irrigation and Rehabilitation Project will continue to
manage the follow-on project. The position of the Accounting Department within the organization has been solid.
The Accounting Department has successfully managed and accounted for various funds from more than 10 different
sources which were used in over 270 civil works contracts to rehabilitate more than 40 different irrigation schemes,
and has consistently received good external audit reviews. The PMU, along with its Accounting Department, has
demonstrated its capacity to perform a complex process on time, within budget, and with proper accounting.
Major strengths of PMU's financial management: (i) staff have been trained to carry out basic accounting functions
and WB disbursement and procurement procedures, (ii) a reasonable system of internal controls is in place, (iii) the
filing system is well organized and comprehensive and supported documents for the Statement of Expenditures are
complete and neatly filed, (iv) staff are computer literate, English speaking and highly motivated.
There is however considerable scope for improvement in the following aspects: (i) accounting software currently
used is labor intensive, (ii) simple and clear reports to monitor project progress are not readily available, (iii)
operational manual, including finance and administration are not properly documented except for an accounting
system users' manual and instructions to prepare the financial reports and SOE claims, (iv) absence of formalized
and regular schedule of back-up procedures of computer files
Accounting System
The current accounting system is based on "datafile", which is a single user, DOS based general ledger system
developed in England during late 1980s. It is a flat-file database with a project management module and provision
for disbursements. The system was not designed to handle multiple currencies, and has limited reporting capability.
To compensate for this limitation, two sets of general ledger were maintained, one for Lek cash transactions and
another for USD cash transactions. The two sets of ledger are combined by manually typing the account totals onto a
Lotus 123 spreadsheet that performs the combination. To provide the necessary level of reports and control, 30
separate Lotus 123 spreadsheets were built. These run on a DOS version of Lotus, and are flat spreadsheets with no
file linking capability. Hence, in many instances, output data from one spreadsheet is re-entered onto multiple
spreadsheets in order to achieve different reporting formnats. Therefore, maintaining the records and producing the
financial reports are labor intensive.
PMU decided to purchased Alpha, an off the shelf accounting software designed by ICC, an Albanian company. The
software was designed in a Windows Microsoft Access platform to conform to the new Albania National
Accounting Law. It was designed for the private sector and similar to Peachtree, the commonly used software in the
US. The package includes cash receipt and disbursement journal, general ledger, trial balance, payroll module,
accounts payable, accounts receivable, fixed asset register and depreciation calculation. It is multi-currency and the
general ledger has two columnar amounts, Lek and Foreign Currency equivalent. PMU has contracted ICC to
modify the reporting capability of Alpha. The projects' international financial consultant will supervise the local
consultants and project accountant who are involved in developing the program modification. In addition, a Bank
financial management officer and specialist along with a Chartered Accountant experienced in World -Bank projects
and LACI requirements will provide continuing support to the project team in testing the modifications and training
plans.
Financial Management Reports
The acquisition of a fully integrated accounting software would allow for timely reporting on formats that would
become an effective tool in managing the project. Project Management Reports (PMR) will be submitted on a
quarterly basis. The following reports will be automatically produced from the new accounting software; I-A,
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, 1-B, Uses of Funds by Project Activity, I-C, Project Balance Statement of
Affairs and the Procurement Management Reports. Report 2, Project Monitoring Report and Cash Forecast will be
initially prepared using spreadsheets and would be developed on the second phase of the software modification.



80
Since other donors will cofinance the project, with different special account replenishment forms, summary sheets
and special account reconciliation will be prepared using the downloading capability of the software into Excel
spreadsheets. Likewise for Reports I -D, Cash Withdrawal and I-F, Special Account Statement should the project
elect to disburse the credit based on PMR.
Audit
The accounts and financial statements of the project would be audited annually by an independent auditor that is
acceptable to the IDA. Auditor would be a member of a professional body that is accredited by International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and the audit would be conducted using "International Accounting Standards as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC)" and "International Standards on Auditing as
issued by the International Federation of Accountants". Auditors' report shall be submitted within six months of the
close of Government's fiscal year.
Financial Manual
The current financial manual would be revised to incorporate changes in the procedure as a result of the new
software. Modifications to the financial manual would include the; 1) codification and description of new chart of
account, 2) organization and staffing for financial management functions, 3) financial and accounting policies, 4)
description of transaction processing, review and approval requirement and supporting documents needed for each
type. The revised financial manual would be submitted for IDA's review before the first supervision of the project.
This manual would be periodically updated and improved based on implementation experience.
Flow of Funds
The flow of funds would be the same as the first project. GOA would pass on the IDA credit and other external
funds through an electronic transfer to the respective special accounts maintained for each source. Government cash
contribution would be allocated annually and transferred to the project accounts. Beneficiary contributions would be
deposited to the project accounts.
Financial and Accounting Policies
Financial and accounting policies for the project have been developed by an expatriate who operated as the
Controller for the first project starting in early 1993 and ending on December 11, 1998. These policies were handed
in the form of informal instructions and notes covering the following aspects, i) exchange rate used in recording the
USD equivalent of transactions to/from project accounts and LEK equivalent of transactions to/from special
accounts and direct payments from the credit account will be official rate at the date of transaction; ii) project
expenditures eligible for funding from IDA credit and cofinanciers are paid from the respective special accounts, iii)
VAT and other expenditures ineligible from credit and other external source of funds are paid from the project
accounts, iv) expenditures are limited to activities covered under the project documents, (iv) accounting procedures
and policies will conform to Albania National Accounting Law. PMU will formally document the financial and
accounting policies for inclusion in the financial manual.
Accounting Principles
The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i)    Books of accounts for the project would be maintained on double-entry bookkeeping principles. This
would be maintained using Alpha accounting system.
(ii)    Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including beneficiary contributions), and all
utilization of project funds. All project-related transactions (whether involving cash or not) would be
accounted in the books of accounts. This would include contributions made by beneficiaries in the form of
labor and agricultural inputs. Direct disbursements made by the World Bank would also be included in the



81
project accounting system. Funds received from different sources would be identified separately and
reflected in the project accounts and financial statements.
(iii)    The Chart of Accounts and cost centers would be codified to enable the project to prepare balance sheet
and income statement required under the Albania National Accounting Law and capture sources and uses
of funds by the disbursement category and project components as detailed in the Project Appraisal
Document and Project Implementation
(iv)    Project Financial Statements and financial reports would be fully based on the project books of accounts,
and substantially generated from the financial accounting system. Worksheets for any manually prepared
reports or macro driven spreadsheets will be filed until completion of the annual audit.
Internal Controls
The project financial management system includes the following internal control mechanisms:
(i)    Operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets and
targets by;
(ii)    Segregation of procurement, payment, recording, approval, reporting and budget monitoring functions;
(iii)    Different levels of access to accounting system and installation of login password protections to computers;
(iv)    Back-up procedures of computer data files and physically securing hard copies of accounting records and
supporting documents in lock and fireproof cabinets;
(v)    Safeguarding of assets by using safe for cash and at least yearly physical inventory of equipment;
(vi)   Implementing recommended improvements on internal control weaknesses noted by the auditors;
(vii)   Timely audits;
Staffing
The accounting department consists of two accountants and an accounting assistant. All staffs are graduates of the
Economic Faculty of University of Tirana, computer literate and English speaking. One accountant has 15 years
experience as a bookkeeper and accountant, of which 6 is in the PMU under the tutelage of the international resident
expert for the first project. The new accountant who was recently hired on a competitive basis has 15 years
experience in banking and accounting, whereas the accounting assistant with 5 years experience assisted in
monitoring the Water Enterprise component of the first project since March 1995. This staffing is adequate for the
project. The modernization of their computerized accounting system would significantly reduce the transaction and
recording processing and would allow the staff to improve the support on project management.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
The project is ready to implement the follow-on project. Financial management meets minimum requirement of
World Bank. However, the project is not ready for a PMR-based disbursement. Therefore, the project will disburse
using traditional methods.
Financial management relied heavily on expatriates in the past. Although these experts trained the staffs under each
department, the skills and level of experience in some may not be comparable. Therefore, it is essential that the
automated accounting system is installed and the first phase of the program modification is satisfactorily operational
before the loan becomes effective.



82
ANNEX I 1
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement
PROCUREMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
The Project Management Unit (PMU), which was established for the first Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, will be
responsible for overall procurement activities. The PMU has a separate procurement division with two staff, who
have received extensive training and acquired substantial experience in procurement under the first project. In order
to ensure that the PMU procurement staff are aware of the new Bank procurement guidelines, a project procurement
launch workshop would be held in June 1999. A capacity assessment of the PMU has already been completed.
PROCUREMENT METHODS (TABLE A)
Procurement for works and goods financed from IDA credit proceeds will be conducted in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit published in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. A General Procurement Notice will be published in
Development Business in April 1999. The procurement of consultants will be conducted in accordance with
Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods, Small Works, the
Standard Request for Proposals, and Standard Form of Consultants' Contracts will be used.  The Project
procurement arrangements are shown in the following Table A . Details are included in the Procurement Plan.
Civil Works and Goods
The Project consists of rehabilitation subprojects for irrigation and drainage facilities throughout Albania. All of the
civil works contracts are estimated to cost from US$20,000 to US$250,000, as rehabilitation would be carried out in
phases depending on the demand and partial contribution from farmers. Therefore, the procurement plan would be
updated every three months in the quarterly report for the Bank's review and approval. Given the small value and
dispersed location of contracts to be financed, intemational competitive bidding is not considered suitable.
Works estimated to cost less than US$250,000 each will be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB),
for an aggregate amount of US$ 15.15 million. For these contracts the Bank's standard NCB documents prepared
for Albania would be used. Works estimated to cost less than US$75,000 up to an aggregate arnount of US$2.2
million shall be procured using procedures for minor works, using lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors, in response to a written invitation.
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable. The
award shall include a detailed description of the work, including basic specifications, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest priced quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract. Furthermore, at negotiations, it will be agreed that
minor works contracts for each period of six months will be advertised in a national newspaper. Expressions of
interest generated from this advertisement will be used to prepare a list of domestic contractors, who will receive the
Invitation to Bid. Contractors will be able to apply to be on the list at any time.
Goods
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for the purchase of goods estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 per contract. International Shopping (IS), based on a comparison of quotes from at least three
suppliers, from two eligible countries, will be used for contracts estimated to cost up to US$100,000 each. The
project includes IS contracts up to an aggregate amount of US$ 365,000. The national shopping procedures will be
used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$35,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$150,000. A
contract for computer and office equipment will be procured on this basis for an aggregated amount not to exceed
US$ 35,000. The goods to be financed includes equipment and construction materials to support WUAs and
FWUAs depending on their performance. As technical specifications and precise composition of this equipment and
construction materials would be determined during project implementation, in response to beneficiary demands and
needs, the procurement plan for goods would also be updated every three months in the quarterly report for the
Bank's review and approval.' Spare parts for pumping equipment estimated to cost less than US$890,000 per
contract, and up to US$890,000 in aggregate would be purchased based on direct contract with the supplier of the



83
original equipment. An independent expert's services will be engaged to certify the origin of the spare parts, and
fairness of the prices of these spare parts.
Consulting Services
The project would finance consulting services involving: international firms and specialists (individuals); national
firms and individuals including NGOs; and training costs and fees. Consulting services estimated to cost more than
US$200,000 each will be selected through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. Requests for
expressions of interest in such contracts will be advertised in Development Business and a national newspaper. A
short list will be drawn up from responses.
The QCBS procedures will be used to recruit consulting firms for the main Technical Assistance package (Support
for Water User Associations, Technical Studies, and Project Administration), and Drainage Studies (Support for
Water Enterprises). Contracts for design and supervision works would be exclusively financed by the Government's
counterpart funds and would be procured competitively under the Albanian laws and regulations. Contracts for
Project Account Auditing would be procured through Least Cost Selection. The Consultants' Qualification method
of Selection will also be used for procurement of Contracts for improved environmental management (Pilot Micro
Watershed Management, Environmental Monitoring, and Best Agricultural Extension Service in Karavasta
Watershed); Contracts for international and national trainers, WUA coordinators, international and national
aquaculture specialists; and training.
Incremental Operating Costs
In Albania, all project implementation units (PIUs) and project management units (PMUs) are now considered to be
autonomous entities under the control of their respective ministers, and their staff are considered to be private
consultants (Government's Decree No. 452, July 1, 1998). Accordingly, the credit will finance incremental
operating costs of about US$1.53 million consisting of salaries and operating costs for the PMU, incurred as a result
of project implementation. These costs would include: (a) maintenance and operation of equipment and vehicles
used under the project; (b) salaries and per diems paid to PMU staff engaged under the Project; (c) consumable
office supplies and small office equipment, (d) office rent and maintenance, utilities, and telecommunications
pertaining to the Project, (e) travel cost for seminars and workshops on project related issues, and (f) advertisement
fee for contracts to be procured under the project. Incremental costs will be procured on the basis of an annual
budget to be agreed with the Association.
Retroactive Financing
Three civil works contracts for rehabilitation of primary canals at BRU-4, ELU-3, and PEU-2 would be carried out
through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) under the retroactive financing arrangement. Total estimated contract
value would be approximately US$ 520,000, which is less than 2.5 percent of the total IDA credit. National
Environmental Agency has already approved the proposed rehabilitation, and public consultation has been carried
out. Prior to the start of the contract, the PMU would provide IDA with the evidence of the commitment from
farmers for final review.
BANK'S PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLDS (TABLE B)
Prior review thresholds are as follows:
L Civil Works
ICB contracts over US$250,000 each, if any, all documentation (bidding documents, draft contract, evaluation report
before contract is signed) and the first NCB contract in each year would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
iL Goods
All goods to be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) and all proprietary spare parts items to be
procured as proprietary items through direct contracting.
iii. Consulting Services
Contracts with firms for $100,000 or more and with individuals for $25,000 or more will be subject to the Bank's
prior review. With respect to services, prior Bank review would be required for all terms of reference irrespective of
the contract value. For each contract estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, the technical evaluation report will be



84
submitted to the Bank after the technical proposals have been evaluated, for its review prior to the opening of the
priced proposals. For contracts estimated to cost between US$100,000 and US$200,000, the Association will be
notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening of the financial proposals. For contracts with
individual consultants costing US$25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference, and terms of
employment shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval. All other contracts would be subject
to ex-post review by the Association.
iv. Training
Any training related expenses (tuition, fee, transportation, per diem, and trainers' fee) would require prior approval.
POST REVIEW
All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review will be subject to post review. A minimum of one contract in
every five will be subject to ex-post review. At least one supervision mission a year will include a procurement
specialist whose main responsibility will be to conduct ex-post reviews of the procurement process and
documentation, and provide his or her findings.
Disbursement
ALLOCA TION OF LOAN PROCEEDS (TABLE C)
Table C describes the allocation of the credit to the following categories: civil works, goods, consulting services,
and incremental operating costs.
SPECIAL ACCOUNT
To facilitate timely project implementation the PMU will establish, maintain, and operate, under conditions
acceptable to IDA, a Special Account denominated in US dollars in the Bank of Albania. The maximum authorized
allocation of the Special Account will be limited to US$1.0 million. There will be no initial restriction on the
authorized allocation because: (a) the Project is a follow-up to the first IDA-financed project and no start-up lag is
expected; (b) most expenditures (all local civil works) will be made from the Special Account, and (c) cash flow
requirements are expected to be high during the first six months of effectiveness, as the project will be effective in
fall 1999, which is the height of the construction season for irrigation facilities. Replenishment applications should
be submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting documents.
USE OF STA TEMENT OF EXPENDITURES (SOES)
Reimbursement of expenditures made from the Special Account may be made on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the Director of the PMU for the following items:
Civil Works: contracts amounting to less than US$250,000 equivalent;
Goods: contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent;
Consulting Services- firms: contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent;
Consulting Services- individuals: contracts amounting to less than US$25,000 equivalent;
Training, studies, and operating costs: all contracts
The required supporting documents will be retained by the PMU for at least one year after receipt by the IDA of the
audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation will be made available to the
auditors and to visiting IDA staff upon request.
A CCOUNTS AND AUDIT
The PMU will maintain am accounting and auditing system which will have the capacity of recording and retrieving
all financial transactions associated with the project in a timely manner and comply with internationally accepted
standards. This will be used for tracking both the Government counterpart funds and those to be provided by other
sources of funding.
PROJECT REPORTING
The PMU will prepare proper Quarterly Progress Reports and submit them to the Association in a timely manner.



85
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
The project will be implemented over a five year period.



86
ANNEX 11: Table A - Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'5
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method                      Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB          NCB          Other         N.B.F/1
1. Works
Rehabilitation of Irrigation and                 18.0          2.6          10.1         30.7
Drainage Facilities                             (15.1)        (2.2) /2                  (17.3)
2. Goods
Pumping Equipment                    0.5                                                 0.5
(0.5)                                               (0.5)
Spare Parts                                                    0.9                        0.9
(0.9)/3                   (0.9)
Office Equipment                                               0.1           0.1          0.2
(0.1)/4                   (0.1)
Vehicles                                                       0.2                        0.2
(0.2)/5                   (0.1)
Motor cycles, Other                                            0.2           0.2          0.4
Miscellaneous Field Equipment                                 (0.2)/6                    (0.2)
and Construction Materials
3. Services
Main Technical Assistance and                                  2.3                       2.3
Drainage Studies                                              (2.3)/7                    (2.3)
Improved Environmental                                         0.4                       0.4
Management and Aqua-culture                                   (0.4)/8                    (0.4)
Productions
Design and Supervision                                                     1.8           1.8
(0.0)
Project Audit                                                 0.1                        0.1
(0. 1)9                   (0.1)
National experts for WUA                                       0.4                       0.4
Promotion                                                     (0.2)/10                   (0.4)
Training (trainer fee, travel cost                             0.2           0.7         0.9
and per diems)                                                (0.2)/Il                   (0.2)
4. Miscellaneous
PMU Staff Cost                                                0.8                        0.8
(0.7) /12                 (0.7)
Incremental Operation Cost                                    1.0                        1.0
(0.9) /13                 (0.9)
Total                                0.5         18.0          9.1          12.9         40.5
(0.5)       (15.1)        (8.4)                     (24.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
Figures may not match due to a rounding.
Notes: 1.      N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
2.     Minor works (US$2.2 million in total)
3.     Proprietary Item. Direct Contracting



87
4.     One contract to be procured through National Shopping (US$ 35,000) and two
contracts to be procured through International Shopping (US $60,000 in total)
5.     Two contracts to be procured through International Shopping (US$98,600 and
US$ 98,000).
6.     Two packages (radio communications US$86,100, and GIS equipment for
US$22,100) has been identified to be procured through international shopping.
Specification of other items (construction materials and minor irrigation
equipment), to be purchased through NS, would be determined during project
implementation depending on the demand from farmers. Each national
Shopping Contract would not exceed US$35,000.
7.     Two contracts to be procured under QCBS(a contract estimated to cost US$1.6
million for Main Technical Assistance, and US$0.45 million for Drainage
Studies (Water Enterprises Restructuring))
8.    Individuals, and Firms to be selected through CQ ($25,500) and comparisons of
CVs ($433,000). The Value of each contract for CQ would not exceed more
than US$15,000.
9.     Firms to be selected through Lease Cost Method (US$57,500).
10.   Individuals to be selected through comparison of CVs. Each contract would not
exceed more than US$5,000 (total US$211,250).
11.    direct cost (tuition, per diem, transportation, training materials, and rent for
rooms and equipment). Training would be procured based on the annual plan
and subject to the prior approval. The PMU will prepare a quarterly training
program and submit it to the Association for its review and approval before
implementing the training program
12.    Individuals to be selected through comparison of CVs.
13.   Incremental Operation Cost would include: office supplies, small office
equipment, transportation, translation, advertisement, utilities, and travel cost.
These items would be procured based on the annual plan.



88
ANNEX 11: Table B - Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Goods and          ICB              NCB             IS            NS           Minor Works     Other methods  Percentage of loan
Civil Works                                                                                                    amount subject to
prior review
Procurement  W>250,000              W<250,000  G< 100,000         G< 35,000         W< 75,000  DC: G<882,700
thresholds:                        (15,150,000)    (365,000)       (150,000)       (2,200,000)       (882,700)
individual and  G>100,000
aggregate    (500,000)
Prior Review   All               First Contract   N.A.       N.A.             N.A.             All                   $1.6 mil
(500,000)         (220,000)                                                      (882,700)               7%
Consultants   QCBS               QBS            LCS          Qualifications    Single          Individuals
Source
Procurement                      N.A.           <100,000                      None              30,000
method                                          (57,500)
thresholds
Prior Review   All               N.A.           All          terms        of N.A.               Terms       of       $2.42 mil
(2,341,900)                       (57,500)     reference                         reference               10%
($25,000)
Expost        Procurement Planning. The project management unit (PMU) will submit an updated procurement plan to IDA for review and approval
Review        every three months depending on the demand from farmers and progress of the project.
Procurement Process. A procurement specialist will be included in supervision missions to carry out ex-post review, and her.his
findings will be included in the mission's report.
The capacity of the PMU, which will implement the project, has been assessed. It has been determined that the PMU has existing capacity to conduct procurement
under this project. The PMU, which has qualified and experienced procurement staff, has gained considerable experience in the Bank procurement procedures and
practices in the implementation of the first Irrigation project.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper   Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready
status:                                                      by negotiations
Yes r3x  No  O
Completed 3/10/97



89
._________.____ _           Section 3: Training, tnformain and De pe    on Priremnt
Estimated date of   Estimated date of    Indicate if there is   Domestic Preference for    Domestic Preference for
Project Launch    publication of General    procurement subject to    Goods              Works, if applicable
Workshop          Procurement Notice     mandatory SPN in                                 Yes 0   No  1E
06/30/1999        04/30/1999             Development Business    Yes 101   No D
Yes E3
No   O_
Retroactive financing                                                  Adanc procuremeM-
Yes [El  No  0       Explain:  Three civil works contracts, estimated to  Yei O   No  IS  Explain:
cost approximately US$520,000 equivalent, would be carried out under the NCB
methods using the retroactive financing arrangement. The expected date of the
signing for these contracts would be June 30, 1999.
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The existing PMU has a well established computer based monitoring system, which will be used for the proposed second project
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing:
Table A includes the project costs including possible co-financing part. However, cofinanciers have not been confirmed yet. The
procurement for the co-financing part would be implemented according to the respective co-financiers' procurement guideline. If co-
financiers funds the project through Trust Funds administered by the World Bank, the Bank's guideline would apply.
:Section4: Progurementing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Name:
Naushad Khan, Procurement Specialist                           Ext: 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement:
The resident mission does not have a qualified procurement staff; however, the project officer assigned to this project would play an
important role of the monitoring of the procurement process and intermediary between the headquarters and the PMU.



90
ANNEX 11: Table C - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in SDR        Financing Percentage
Million
Civil Works                                                 11.86               90%
Goods                                                        1.10      100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 85%
of local expenditures
for other items
procured locally.
Consultants' Services                                        1.77              100%
Incremental Operating Cost                                   1.20               90%
Unallocated                                                  1.77
Total             17.70



91
ANNEX 12
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$33 1,000          US$272,900
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            06/30/1998           06/30/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    01125/1999           01/31/1999
Negotiations                                   03/15/1999           04/05/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/31/1999           08/31/1999
Prepared by: the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD Grant (USD 529,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project include:
Name                                    Specialty
Toru Konishi                      Economist (Task Team Leader)
Ahmed Jehani                              Legal Counsel
Junko Funahashi                     Legal Counsel - Environment
Rohit Mehta                        Senior Disbursement Officer
Andrea Ryan                      Civil and Environmental Engineer
Ibrahim Hackaj                            Project Officer
Neal Mountstephens                        Irrigation Specialist
Jean-Pierre Villaret                      Irrigation Engineer
Steve Hodgson                         Environmental Lawyer
Phyl Brylski                        Environmental Specialist
Kerstin Canby                        Environmental Specialist
Rita Cestti                         Environmental Advisor
Nelly Payos                       Financial Management Officer
Ramendra Basu                     Financial Management Speciaiist
Taka Hirai                             Fishery Specialist
Naushad Khan                           Procurement Advisor
Karin Sheperdson/Rita Cestti           Environmental Specialists (review)
Leigh Hammill                            Project Assistant
Gary Griffis                           Financial Analyst



92
ANNEX 13
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
Operational Manual (to be preparedprior to effectiveness)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Notes on On-Farm Irrigation
Notes on Legal Framework
C. Other
Irrigation Subsector Review, Hunting, Binnie, Black and Veach, December 1998
Feasibility Studies(including Environmental Assessment) for each subproject, , Hunting, Binnie,
Black and Veach, December 1998-January 1999
Dam Safety Review, Hunting, Binnie, Black and Veach, December 1998



93
ANNEX 14
STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
As of 18-Apr-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 7
Active Projects
AL-PE-51309    1999   ALBANIA                           COMMUNITY WORKS                         0.00        9.00        0.00              8.82        0.00        0.00
AL-PE-40818    1998   ALBANIA                           DURRES PORT                             0.00       17.00        0.00              17.09        6.19       0.00
AL-PE-40975    1998   ALBANIA                           LAND DEVELOPMENT                        0.00       10.00        0.00              9.68        -.07        0.00
AL-PE-45312    1998   ALBANIA                           HEALTH RECOVERY                         0.00       17.00        0.00             16.71        2.68        0.00
AL-PE-51602    1998   ALBANIA                           PRIVATE INDUSTRY REC                    0.00       10.25        0.00              8.22        8.28        0.00
AL-PE-54384    1998   ALBANIA                           RECOVERY PROG. TA                       0.00        5.00        0.00              3.75        1.13        0.00
AL-PE-34181    1996   ALBANIA                           URBAN WORKS & MICRO                     0.00        4.00        0.00                .43         .74       0.00
AL-PE-34491    1996   ALBANIA                           POWER TRANSM. & DIST                    0.00       29.50        0.00             19.50       15.13        0.00
AL-PE-35787    1996   ALBANIA                           AGROPROCESSING DEVEL                    0.00        6.00        0.00              2.05        2.34        0.00
AL-PE-36060    1996   ALBANIA                           NATIONAL ROADS                          0.00       25.00        0.00             19.57        8.38        0.00
AL-PE-8271      1996   ALBANIA                          FORESTRY                                0.00        8.00        0.00              5.15        1.27        0.00
AL-PE-8253      1995   ALBANIA                          HEALTH SERVICES RENA                    0.00       12.40        0.00              7.17        6.35        0.00
AL-PE-8267      1995   ALBANIA                          RURAL ROADS                             0.00       15.00        0.00              2.77        2.85        0.00
AL-PE-8270      1995   ALBANIA                          IRRIGATION RENABILIT                    0.00       10.00        0.00                .16      -1.82        0.00
AL-PE-8272      1995   ALBANIA                          TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.                    0.00        4.00        0.00              1.71        1.62        0.00
AL-PE-8273      1995   ALBANIA                          RURAL DEVELOPMENT                       0.00        6.00        0.00                .63         .56       0.00
AL-PE-8252      1994   ALBANIA                          LABOR MARKET DEVELOP                    0.00        5.40        0.00                .67         .58       0.00
AL-PE-8260      1994   ALBANIA                          DURRES WATER SUPPLY                     0.00       11.60        0.00              3.83        1.60        0.00
AL-PE-8265      1994   ALBANIA                          SOCIAL SAFETY NET                       0.00        5.50        0.00                .46         .34       0.00
AL-PE-8266      1994   ALBANIA                          HOUSING                                 0.00       15.00        0.00                .91         .32       -.09
AL-PE-8269      1994   ALBANIA                          SCHOOL REHAB. AND CA                    0.00        9.60        0.00               1.10         .51       0.00
AL-PE-8258      1993   ALBANIA                          TRANSPORT/INFRASTRUC                    0.00       18.00        0.00                .65         .17       0.00
Total                                                                                           0.00      253.25        0.00            131.03       59.15        -.09
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                117.25              113.12             230.37
of which has been repaid:                  0.00               0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                253.25              112.47             365.72
Amount sold                     :0.00                                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed               :              131.03                 .70             131.73
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:   Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.



94
ANNEX 15
COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Albania at a glance                                                                   9/29/98
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central      Low-
Albania      Asia  income         Development diamond'
1997:   
Population. mid-year (millions)                          3.3       47t   2,048                     Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                       750      2,320       350
GNP (Atlas methfod, US$ billions)                        2.5      1.106       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (9)                                           0.3        0.2       21 
Labor force (O .8::                                                 0.5       2.3      GNP            7                  Gross
: :                                                                            ;       : per            - --  primary
Most recent estimate (tatest year avaIlable, 19,91-971                                 capita          .    .        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationqat povirty lJ:ie  2N
Urban population (9i oftotalpopulation,l                  38         67        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          71         69        59
Infant mortality (per f,DO :Evr b/rfits)                 33         25        78
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under 5.                             .        61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (I% of pop ulat ion)                                      71
Illiteracy (%6sf population age 15+)                                           47                -Albania
Gross primary enroltmeft f% ofsoholol-ape populatioril    88         92        91
Mate                                                     . I,               100                 Low-income group
Female         :.                                                   ..       81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     ISO$:      1996      13897
Economic rattos*
GDP (US$ billions)                               ..      2,2        2.7       2.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    ,.    30,9        20.5      12.2
Exports ot goods and services/GDP                ..    15.1        13.7      11.6                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       -      30.5       -6.8     -13.2
Gross national savings/GDP                                           I. 1.S    0.1
Current account balance/GDP                      .       0,1       -9.0     -12.0      Do mestic 
Interest payments/GDP                             .      0.0        0.5       0.9      Savings
Totat debtlGDP                                   ,.       ..       25,0       31.0
Total debt service/exports                       1. ,,              3.4      11.9 11
Present value of debUGDP                         ..       ..       28.2
Present value of debt/exports                 :7.          ,   8 7,7
Indebtedness
1976,85  1987-97     1396       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   2.0      -1.9      9. 1      -7.0        7.5                 Albania
GNP per capita                                  2.2      7.9       38.2       6.4              ---   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                  18.3     12.4      -213   :  28.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997       Gwth rates ofoutput andinvestment(%i  -
(16 of GDP)
Agriculture                                      ..    34.0        55.4      62.6
Industry                                                                                            ..144.2  21.1  18.2  3m
Manufacturing                                  ..        ..         ..        ..    lso:..
Services                                         ..    21.8        23.5      19.2        ov--
Private consumption                              ..    60.2        94.1     102.6    .100 -    9    93   94   s5   55
General government consumption                   ..      9.3       12.6      10.6                      G         O
Imports of goods and services                    ..    15.5        41.0      37.2                  -         Dl      GP
1976-86  1987-91       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     2.8      5.7        8.1        5.0    300 T
Industry                                        1.9    -12.0        7.7     -19.4    200
Manufacturing                                  ..        ,.         .          ..
Services                                        1.2     -1.3       12.9     -24.2    ln-
Private consumption                              ..      6.2       19.9       -1.3      o
General government consumption                   ..    -5.0         2.6     -23.9                    93   94   95   96    9
Gross domestic investment                       0.1     20.7        7.1     -46.7      10
Imports of goods and services                    ..    21.1        27.6      -17.6            -Exports    .O'lmpons
Gross national product                           ..      2.5        9.1       -7.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
SLHammill
\\StreetTalk\Projects@Files@ECA\ALBANIA\RURENV\IRRIG-2\3LENN\PACKAGE\ANNX3 13.DOC
03/17/99 12:38 PM



IBRD 30181
~, \  _13°30'                      19°000                      19°30'                      20000'                       20'30'                      21°00' 0
CROATIA I                                                                )   fFED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA
42030             i\\X_  I.'a$>27                                            ! f-                            '.  l(SERBIA / MONTENEGRO)  42030
\ \CEM-ALDNIE.    \    TROEOJE       X
\\ -                                              >  < /2 t l X ,/ . HAS \
Shk                                          L  Krumo*
ALBANIA                                                                                                                   f ,
SECOND IRRIGATION                                        ~          ~          ~                                  d S'                                  42'000
AND DRAINAGE   '
REHABILTATION PROJECT                                                                               RDITE
g<2  POSSIBLE PROJECT AREAS UNDER                                                                           DIBER
THE SECOND PROJECT                                                                                  Peshkopi
0     DISTRICT CENTERS                                                  La,
®      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                       T
NATIONAL ROADS
41030'    +        e- RAILROADS                                             RSFYR                                                                              41'30
RIVERS                                                                          . t.BULOIZE                          MACEDONIA
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-   - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                  Durr/*
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:                                                                      r             - BRAZHD
.     1200                                            ll       ft                                 r z d            + 
41'000                                                                                                           ELU  *                     .                  41000
L U                     NRJE !  ;                     <                 /
; e atRAMhSH *. P~~~~~~~~~~~~ogra'de   --
This map wsc produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any ole in_ormation
shown on this map da not i,pyasn the part of The Wodd Bank
Grop,anyodgsmentonthe.Iegolste.ss o.nyterritoayora.ny  KU '°                       '        *-OR*
endorsesetoroaoceptonceofsockboundaries.
18'130'                     19,100                                        UKS2SRAPAR   .   O - 
'RUSSIAN                                                             N \                         n'.A           40'30'-
SWEDEN I/                    'RUSSI                                                              * C +
DENMARK                ~~~~~LATVIAN    FED,           Ir
LITHUANIA
NETHg  -~~~~~~  ) ~BELARUS   E/V2>                                            >                                               1 PRE  ~OO~
POLAND                                                                OPIO            .. -
.'3<wx.     t  CZECH     '                                                                                                                     GREECE
£                                              .                         1.   ,,'' Ir l    \:,  \OKASTERj
RER                      UKRAINE
-r.--4 2AUSTRA                   -       <OLDOOVA                                                               t G br 
*    ~ ~ ~ a- ~HUNIARY!                       J .0  40'00'                                             lso
ROFARNIA   V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ij ~~~~40,0005
r       S>~~~CRO.AT             ROMANIA      -                                           0:    DLIE. 
74 Y5JGOSLAVLA
(sERB ISON    BULGRA   S                                         Sarand
ITZALY                  -                                                                    *t                           0 10  20      0     40 20
-~~~ 0.00  _                                                    SA~~~~~~~RANOE.
At   NI)-""    -'V'         5'                          -- - '/   '>'CSA                   '                      KILOMETERS
-   -   G¶REECE'N AOgeOr  TURKEY                                      r-*I
L  51/ ol4< (,0   U-                                                    19°30               '- <                                20130'                       21 00     E
i ___________________________________________________                                                                ~~~~~~~MAY 1 999



