                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 33378




                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (IDA-32320 TF-25532)

                                              ON A

                                            CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.7 MILLION

                                               TO

                                           ALBANIA

                                            FOR A

        SECOND ALBANIA IRRIGATION & DRAINAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                         August 30, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective August 30, 2005)

                              Currency Unit = ALL (Albanian lek)
                                      ALL 1 = US$ 0.01
                                      US$ 1 = ALL 100

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31




                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ASP            Agriculture Service Project
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DB(s)          Drainage Board(s)
DoWM           Department of Water Management of the MoAF
EIRR(s)        Economic Internal Rate of Return(s)
FWUAs          Federation of Water User Associations(s)
IDA            International Development Association
IDF            Institutional Development Fund
IRP            Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, the first project
               (completed in mid 1999)
IsDB           Islamic Development Bank
MIS            Management Information System
MoAF           Ministry of Agriculture and Food
NUWUA          National Union of WUAs
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
WE(s)          District Based Irrigation and Drainage Water Enterprise(s)
WUA(s)         Water User Association(s)
WRMP           Water Resource Management Project (effective January2005)




                             Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Director        Orsalia Kalantzopolous
                             Sector Director      Laura Tuck
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Toru Konishi

                                           ALBANIA
 SECOND ALBANIA IRRIGATION & DRAINAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P043178                                                  Project Name: ALBANIA IRRIGATION &
                                                                     DRAINAGE II
Team Leader: Toru Konishi                                            TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 6, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ALBANIA IRRIGATION & DRAINAGE II                         L/C/TF Number: IDA-32320; TF-25532
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (65%); Flood protection (20%); Central
                            government administration (13%); Agricultural extension and
                            research (1%); Other industry (1%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Water resource management
                            (P); Natural disaster management (P); Other rule of law (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/31/1998                                     Effective: 09/30/1999                09/30/1999
     Appraisal: 01/29/1999                                         MTR: 04/25/2002                  04/25/2002
      Approval: 06/03/1999                                      Closing: 03/31/2005                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
                      Other Partners:      Kuwait Fund, Government of France

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Director:                Laura Tuck                                     Kevin Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR:             Toru Konishi                                   Toru Konishi
ICR Primary Author:             Toru Konishi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objectives of the project were to achieve sustainable and equitable use of irrigation water for
increased agriculture production and to reduce the risk of floods. It was also to support the Government's
initiative in taking the first steps toward establishing an institutional and legal framework for dam safety.

The project was designed as a follow-up to the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP), which was
implemented between 1994 and 1999. Under the IRP, financial support was provided for rehabilitation of
critical irrigation infrastructure, and the Government of Albania started institutional reform of the
irrigation sector, namely transferring lower level irrigation management from the state-owned Water
Enterprises (WEs) to newly formed Water User Associations (WUAs). Following the civil turmoil of
1997, the Government accelerated reform and started transferring major responsibilities such as operation
and maintenance of the headworks, main canals, and reservoirs to Federations of WUAs (FWUAs). At
completion, the IRP was considered to be successful, exceeding expectations on institutional reform as
well as physical rehabilitation and resulting in good economic impacts. The Government then recognized
the need to spread WUAs nationwide, and to scale-up steps taken under the IRP to consolidate the
success.

In this context, the Government also requested the Bank's support for the drainage and flood control
sector. Almost 80 percent of precipitation in Albania occurs during the three winter months between
November and January, and deterioration of flood control facilities has resulted in frequent and high
winter floods mainly in the coastal area. The Government planned to introduce an approach similar to
that used in the irrigation sector to increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the drainage and flood
control sector ­ i.e. physical rehabilitation and institutional reform to decentralize some responsibilities to
stakeholders.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revision has been made.

3.3 Original Components:
The project has the following four components:

   Component 1: System Rehabilitation. This component aimed at carrying out critical rehabilitation
   works to deteriorated irrigation, drainage, and flood protection infrastructure, accounting for
   approximately 80 percent of the total project cost. Rehabilitation measures for irrigation emphasized
   repair works essential to resume irrigation operation such as re-sectioning of earth canals, repair and
   replacement of failed lining, control structures and gates. Urgent repair works to irrigation reservoirs
   related to dam safety were also included. And lastly, modest improvements, such as installation of
   measurement structures and cross regulators were included to facilitate operation by farmers (through
   Water User Associations (WUAs)). The project adopted a 'demand driven' approach to finance
   rehabilitation works to support farmers who demonstrated commitment to irrigated agriculture. This
   approach was adopted following a lesson learned during IRP, which closed in early 1999. The IRP
   prioritized schemes for inclusion based on classical benefit/cost calculation methods, which though
   rational, resulted in execution of some schemes which were not used for irrigated farming. Under this
   project, farmers were required to organize themselves into Water User Associations (WUAs), to agree to
   take over operational responsibilities, and to accompany their request for rehabilitation works with
   up-front financial contributions (approximately US$30 equivalent per hectare or 15% of total costs),
   deposited into escrow accounts. This was effective in focusing the project's resources to areas with



                                                      - 2 -

   adequate farmer commitment and ensuring best use of rehabilitated infrastructure. Ex-post economic
   viability generated by this approach has been excellent.

   Similarly, rehabilitation measures for drainage and flood protection facilities were focused on essential
   repair works such as re-sectioning of flood escape canals, and repair of drainage pumping stations
   located on the coastal plain, which is known to be prone to seasonal floods. These schemes were
   selected by the Government based on the physical needs, economic importance, and the risk of floods.

   At appraisal, it was expected that this component would rehabilitate irrigation facilities covering 50,000
   hectares at an average cost of US$350 per hectare, and drainage facilities covering 50,000 hectares at
   an average cost of US$65 per hectare with US$200 per hectare upper limit where the rehabilitation of
   pump stations was necessary.

   Component 2: Institutional Support. This component aimed at providing: (a) support to the
   continued implementation of institutional reform in the irrigation sector, mainly development of Water
   User Associations (WUAs) and their federations to promote irrigation management transfer; and (b)
   technical assistance to initiate a similar reform in the drainage and flood control sector, namely closing
   state-owned district irrigation and drainage Water Enterprises (WEs) and establishment of Drainage
   Boards (DBs) to initiate participatory budgeting and planning with involvement of stakeholders. This
   component comprised technical assistance and training, and supporting equipment.

   Component 3: Technical Studies. This component had two sub-components:
   The first sub-component, called Improved Irrigation Technologies, envisaged to improve the country's
   design and operational standards in irrigation through the development of guidelines which would be
   widely shared among engineering designers as well as WUAs. In particular, this sub-component
   envisaged: (a) improvements in gate design and specification; (b) improved pump station design and
   specification; (c) the development of a design manual; and (d) the development of an irrigation operation
   and maintenance (O&M) manual.

   The second sub-component, called Improved Environmental Management, aimed at mitigating some
   environmental issues related to the irrigation sector, such as: (a) pilot micro-catchment improvement;
   (b) promotion of best agricultural practices in ecologically sensitive areas; and (c) environmental
   monitoring of rehabilitated irrigation schemes.

   Component 4: Implementation Support included various project management activities such as: (a)
   preparation for Phase II rehabilitation (project costing was based on a first phase of civil works designs
   to be tendered in one tranche), including feasibility studies, environmental assessments and dam safety
   inspections; and (b) overall project administration support, including financial management, elaboration
   of the monitoring and information system (MIS), procurement and engineering management.

3.4 Revised Components:
No formal revision has been made, and project implementation was carried out according to the appraisal
design except for the following two minor adjustments:

l During the mid-term review, it was agreed that an activity under the second sub-component of
    Component 3: Pilot Micro-catchment Improvement, would be dropped from the project. While three
    suitable sites had been identified at appraisal, the respective communities were not able to allocate the
    land for the project for reforestation in exchange for restricting grazing. It was agreed that such an
    effort should be transferred to the communal forestry component of the on-going forestry project,


                                                       - 3 -

    which has adequate expertise in this area.

l Following the unusually heavy rains in 2002 and the resulting flood in Lezhe, in response to the request
    by the Parliament, the Government decided to increase the scope of the rehabilitation of drainage and
    flood protection works under the project. The similar decision was also made in late 2003.
    Consequently, the rehabilitation area for drainage has increased from originally envisaged 50,000
    hectares to 90,000 hectares. The increase of the scope was financed through: (a) reallocation from
    dam repair works that were of lesser importance; and (b) Kuwait Fund financing.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, the project design was satisfactory. The following is a summary of the analysis of the quality at
entry:

Consistency with CAS Objective. The project was fully consistent with the CAS objectives to promote:
(a) governance and institution building (b) sustainable private sector growth; and (c) human development
and poverty alleviation. The project has contributed to all of the above objectives through developing
community-based Water User Associations (WUAs) where farmers manage irrigation facilities in a
democratic manner (objective (a) above), enabling reliable irrigation services to increase agricultural
production (objective (b) above). In Albania, irrigated agriculture accounts for approximately 20 percent
of the annual GDP and restoring irrigation is key to overall economic development. In addition, the
greatest poverty lies within the rural areas, and the project has significantly contributed to poverty
alleviation through an increase in agricultural income and job creation (objective (c) above).

Appropriateness of Overall Sector Strategy and Project Scope. Overall, the scope of the project was
appropriate and effective. The project adopted a good mix of physical rehabilitation and institutional
development. This mix has provided farmers with adequate incentive to take over major managerial
responsibilities for irrigation. The rehabilitated irrigation schemes have also contributed to implementation
of institutional reforms through facilitating WUAs's daily operations, providing reliable and equitable
irrigation services. Further, in designing the implementation procedures, the principles of farmer
participation in all stages, starting from concept development, procurement to civil works supervision, have
been incorporated. Finally, the project has also rightly set a higher target for WUA performance (such as
providing equitable and reliable irrigation services, and sound cost recovery), and started a similar reform
in the drainage and flood protection sector. The detailed project design was refined from the lessons
learned, particularly introducing an incentive to support farmers committed to irrigated agriculture.

Consistency with the Government Priorities and Policy. In Albania, irrigation and flood protection is
essential for reliable agriculture in summer and winter respectively, and continued rehabilitation of
deteriorated irrigation and flood protection facilities was considered as one of the top priorities of the
Government. Through policy dialogue during the second half of the implementation of the IRP, the
Government has become aware of the need to carry out major institutional reform, namely transfer of entire
irrigation facilities to farmers and restructuring of WEs in order to enhance cost effectiveness and
efficiency, and eventually achieve sustainability. Similarly, the Government also recognized similar needs
for the drainage and flood protection sector. Prior to the inception of the project, the Parliament had
adopted a law to enable such reform agendas. The project was fully consistent with the Government's
priorities.

Assumption on Risk Factors. Following the success of the IRP and Government's commitment to the
overall water resource reform agenda during the preparation of the project, the project's main overall risk
assessment was M (modest). In retrospect, the rating was appropriate and proposed mitigation measures



                                                       - 4 -

were adequate. During implementation, none of the risk factors identified during project design
materialized to threaten project implementation. In particular, the following two risk factors had been
considered to be critical: (a) unreliable water delivery for downstream farmers which simply did not occur
on any significant scale; and (b) failure to develop sufficient WUA and FWUA capacity to operate and
maintain transferred canals. This threat was mitigated through extensive technical assistance financed
under the project as well as French parallel technical assistance on water management.

Project Objective and Monitoring Indicators. As there was no statistical framework in Albania at
appraisal, the project focused on developing a set of simple, but practical and effective monitoring
indicators to measure project outputs as well as impacts. At completion, the project's approach was
considered appropriate. The impact indicators covered various aspects such as economics (yields, cropping
patterns, and irrigation area), financial (collection of irrigation fees by WUAs), and social (equity in water
distribution).   The PMU has also modified those indicators that proved difficult to measure (such as
drainage operational cost or gaps of irrigation water allocation between upstream and downstream users).
The drainage operational cost indicator was replaced by a comprehensive financial review to monitor the
transparency and efficiency of the drainage related expenditure, and the gaps in irrigation water allocation
were replaced by the measurement of the water flow volume at the tail end relative to the originally
designed flow.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
   The project has substantially met the two major objectives of the project to: (a) achieve equitable and
   sustainable irrigation for increased agriculture production; and (b) reduce the risk of floods. The project
   not only achieved the quantitative target on rehabilitation works, but also had important institutional
   impacts such as development of WUAs and restructuring of WEs. The physical achievement also met
   the estimates made at appraisal (refer Section 4.2). Detailed observations on the development objectives
   are summarized below.

   Increased Agriculture Production. The project has contributed to the increase in agricultural production
   and rural employment. According to the survey carried out by the PMU with international consultants
   in 2001, 2002 and 2004, immediate increases in irrigated areas were recognized, typically from 30% to
   50% in the first two years. Almost immediately, farmers have been obtaining higher yields, and as the
   reliability of irrigation delivery improved, they have been reducing the area of rain-fed subsistence crops
   such as wheat and beans ­ while generally maintaining constant production figures, as they have been
   gradually increasing the area of higher value marketed crops. Most notable increases have been
   observed in irrigated maize, vegetables, and fruits. However, farmers also benefit from higher yields of
   forage crops and have consequently been increasing their livestock numbers. Most yield increases are
   observed at about 20%, but the potential is still higher. Wheat yields, for example, can double with
   good drainage, releasing land for forage or vegetable crops. As a result of the egalitarian land
   distribution of 1990, Albania's farms average only around 1.2 hectare per family, it is therefore very
   rare to find farmers without off-farm employment. Nevertheless, with farm incomes substantially
   increasing, typically from around $750 to $1500 per year and generating additional labor requirements
   of over 30 person days with returns of $10 per day, irrigation and drainage infrastructure rehabilitation
   has a very positive economic impact and significantly contributes to relief from rural poverty. In the
   farmers' view, however, further development of agriculture would depend on other factors such as
   availability of quality inputs (seeds, fertilizers) as well as access to markets. The results of the
   economic analysis at completion are summarized in Section 4.3 below, with details available in Annex
   3.



                                                        - 5 -

Equitable Distribution of Irrigation Water. The project has contributed to improved equity in
distributing irrigation water among farmers. Prior to the inception of the project, equity was a serious
social issue particularly for large irrigation schemes with long main canals where upstream farmers
captured irrigation water without considering the impacts on downstream farmers. The project has
successfully addressed this issue through: (a) rehabilitation of main canals which reduced conveyance
losses and increased efficiency in water delivery; (b) installation of measurement structures which
facilitates efficient and equitable distribution; and (c) transfer of irrigation management to farming
communities (WUAs and FWUAs) thus involving users in the management of the structures. A survey
for the 16 largest irrigation schemes rehabilitated under the project was carried out at completion. The
outcome of the survey is summarized in Table 1 below. The survey shows that before the start of the
project, none of the 16 irrigation schemes delivered water to the tail-end of the canal. In 2005, in stark
contrast, 12 out of 16 irrigation schemes delivered water to the end of the canal. The average
distribution at the very end of the canal among 12 WUAs has reached approximately 75 percent of the
design flow, providing adequate irrigation services to downstream farmers. It should be noted that the
FWUAs and WUAs took this issue seriously, as distribution of water is a social matter. In 6 out of the
16 irrigation schemes, farmers have selected a representative of FWUAs from the tail-end of the canals,
so as to ensure improved equity in accessing irrigation water.

                   Table 1: Improved Equity in Irrigation Water Distribution (2005)

Status            Non-Functional              Head                 Middle                Tail                        Total
At Inception              2                     5                     9                    0                           16
At Completion             0                     0                     4                   12                           16
Note:
1)    Head, Middle, Tail means that the irrigation canals delivered water up to head, middle, and tail of the irrigation
canals.
2)    Among 12 WUAs delivering water to the end of the canal, seven (7) WUAs were able to deliver the full design
      volume of water to the end of the primary canal. The other five delivered about 50 - 75 of the design volume.
3)    Five (5) FWUAs are not included in the table, as rehabilitation works have not yet been completed.

However, while the distribution of water within the irrigation scheme (intra-WUA) is being resolved,
distribution among various irrigation schemes (inter-WUAs) is becoming an issue as irrigation intensity
has been increasing. During a severe drought in 2003, there were reported conflicts among several
irrigation schemes extracting water from Shkumbini River. This highlighted an acute need to integrate
irrigation management into broader river-basin-based water resource management. Albania had
established six river basin committees (RBCs), however, none of the committees involve representatives
of the farming community (currently the user of more than 80 percent of surface water). In addition, the
jurisdiction of the Shkumbini River RBC does not cover the downstream part of the river due to political
reasons. This issue has been discussed with the Government and it has been agreed that a
comprehensive overhaul of river basin management would be carried out under the Water Resource
Management Project (WRMP), as a follow up to this project.

Sustainability of the Irrigation Schemes. Sustainability of systems depends on reliable services and
adequate cost recovery. At the inception of the project, except for a few rehabilitated systems that were
transferred to WUAs under the IRP, most irrigation schemes were close to nonfunctional. Without
proper supervision by users or the Government, the WEs, who were designated operators for the
irrigation schemes were unable to carry out their duties. No costs were recovered from farmers which
rendered the systems unsustainable. Under the project, extensive support was provided to improve the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes, including irrigation planning, pre-season cleaning,



                                                         - 6 -

management of water delivery, invoicing and collection of water fees, and post-season maintenance.

Much progress towards sustainability has been made. The Government has largely ceased financing
operation and maintenance of the irrigation facilities, except for maintenance of a few small schemes
which have not yet been taken over by the WUAs (this practice will be discontinued in 2006 as all
irrigation schemes will be transferred to WUAs). During implementation, cost recovery from farmers
has also been increased from about US$2.00 per ha in 2000 (mainly covering personnel costs) to
approximately US$5.0~7.0 per hectare in 2004, fully covering operation and short-term maintenance
costs. This outcome can be considered to be substantial, considering the fact that cost recovery for
utility services in Albania, as part of the legacy of the former socialist model, is generally difficult (at
inception of the project, cost recovery for water supply and electricity was less than 30 percent, and no
cost recovery was made for irrigation).

Sustainability will be achieved once farmers will also contribute to long-term maintenance and repair,
which will cost an additional US$10-15 per hectare per year. At project completion, thirteen (13)
WUAs have started to collect these costs and begun to build up their own reserve funds to undertake
upcoming on-farm rehabilitation works. Most of the WUAs have not yet even charged these funds to
users. Nevertheless, the project team rates sustainability 'likely'. The project has successfully
established the principle of "user pays" among farmers. In fact, the collection rate for invoicing is
surpassing 80 percent, as farmers know that irrigation management is carried out by their own
communities in a transparent manner and that cost recovery is an important element to sustainability. A
survey carried out on the performance of the WUAs in 2004 clearly indicated that the positive cost
recovery trend is continuing. (Refer Section 6 for more detailed analysis)

Serious environmental issue threatening the sustainability of irrigation schemes has not been arisen yet;
however, in light of rapid economic development, recently, there are some cases such as pollution caused
by discharge of newly built factories and erosions at headworks caused by uncontrolled extraction of
gravels. These issues would be addressed through the WRMP engaging farmers in the river basin
management as main stakeholders in order to strengthen enforcement of applicable laws through
stakeholder participation.

Reduced Risk for Floods. Albania's coastal plain is prone to floods in winter time due to the
topographical characteristics (very steep mountains and narrow and flat coastal plains), and climatic
conditions (frequent severe thunder storms), and prior to the start of the project, typically three to five
floods occurred every year despite considerable budget allocation (typically US$4-5 million per year).
The project has substantially met this objective through: (a) the rehabilitation of deteriorated drainage
and flood protection facilities; and (b) institutional reforms to involve stakeholders in flood control
planning and management.

Under the project, approximately US$16.3 million have been used to rebuild protection canals (which
collect water from steep hills) and rehabilitate drainage pumping stations (which drain water from plains
to the Adriatic Sea). In September 2002, after experiencing serious storms and subsequent floods, the
Government decided to allocate more funds to complete the rehabilitation of drainage in Lezhe and
Shkodra Districts. In the following year, despite historic heavy rains in the mountains (210 mm within
four hours) and an untimely power failure, flood damages of the coastal land were contained. In 2004,
no flood was reported except one isolated case in Shkodra caused by an uncoordinated release of
reservoir gates. The Government has also embarked on a comprehensive institutional reform to increase
the efficiency of drainage and flood protection management. That program has been completed, and
now the only possible constraint to the reduction of the flood risks resides in the maintenance of the


                                                    - 7 -

   drainage and flood protection facilities rehabilitated under the project. The district based WEs were
   restructured into Drainage Boards (DBs) where stakeholders jointly manage flood protection (refer
   Section 3.5, Appropriateness of the Overall Sector Strategy and Scope of Works), aiming at increasing
   efficiency through stakeholder participation, and the longer-term results would be monitored under the
   Water Resources Management Project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
   Component 1: System Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation works were completed by March 2005, three
   months ahead of schedule. This component was implemented in three phases, and comprised 167 civil
   works contracts totaling US$34.7 million (US$18.4 million for irrigation and US$16.3 million for
   drainage/flood protection). Under this component, the project rehabilitated an irrigation service area of
   about 52,000 hectares spread over 43 irrigation schemes at an average cost of around US$353 per
   hectare, and a drainage area of approximately 92,000 hectares, at US$177 per hectare. While the costs
   of rehabilitation per hectare are pretty much within the original estimates, significantly more work was
   done than originally planned so as to reduce future maintenance costs, such as extensive concrete lining
   of canals, and installation of more measuring fixtures. In spite of being on the higher end, these costs
   are still very moderate on an international basis, and as demonstrated in the economic analysis well
   within the parameters assumed during the design of the project. Much of this additional work could be
   undertaken because significant savings were realised on unit costs of construction especially on
   irrigation works. As already mentioned, due to heavy rains resulting in floods during implementation,
   the Government had requested that resources be shifted from dam repair to flood protection measures.
   As a result, the scope of the dam repairs was reduced from 30 dams costing an estimated US$2.5
   million, down to 25 dams costing US$0.75 million. The remaining works will now be carried out under
   the newly approved Water Resource Management Project (WRMP).

   Component 2: Institutional Development. This component financed technical assistance for WUAs
   and especially FWUAs, which have taken over the management of major infrastructure such as primary
   irrigation canals, reservoirs and headworks and responsibilities for delivering water to member WUAs.
   A team of international consultants was recruited to develop a systematic training program in irrigation
   management covering various aspects of physical infrastructure monitoring, water distribution, cost and
   account monitoring and sanctions for violations of prescribed practices, jointly with the Government and
   local institutions. The program targeted all levels of FWUA staff including; board members, chairmen,
   engineers, and administrative staff. The program was delivered by local institutions, inviting virtually
   all key staff from all FWUAs. In addition, the Government of France provided approximately
   US$250,000 under a parallel arrangement to recruit practitioners in similar organizations in France to
   hold a number of workshops in Albania, and carry out study tours for FWUAs.

   The technical assistance for the Drainage Boards (DBs) was also carried out jointly by international
   consultants and the PMU staff. A business manual, describing procedures for budgeting and activity
   planning, as well as procurement processes, and financial management was prepared and adopted by the
   DBs. The PMU staff provided extensive hands-on support during the start-up of the DBs.

   Component 3. Technical Studies. Generally, the component was carried out in a satisfactory manner.
   The following is a summary of outcomes:

   Technical Studies. Under this component a series of manuals for design and operation have been
   prepared jointly by international and national experts. The design manuals, covering overall irrigation
   flow dynamics as well as control structures and gates, have been distributed to concerned private
   engineering firms, and recommendations contained in these manuals have been incorporated into the



                                                      - 8 -

   designs since early 2002. The operational manual has been distributed among the concerned FWUAs,
   who have already adopted it and use it as reference to manage their operations.

   Environmental Studies. Technical training was provided for farmers near Karavasta Lagoon (a Ramsar
   Site) to disseminate best agricultural practices with controlled agro-chemical use. In general, the use of
   agro-chemicals remains low in Albania, and the training is expected to encourage farmers to continue
   this practice, especially in areas where the topography of the landscape would lead to significant run-off
   and water pollution. The environmental monitoring carried out under this component has not revealed
   any environmental issues resulting from nearby increased intensity of irrigation. As stated in Section
   3.4, the Pilot Watershed Management was dropped from the project due to the difficulties in allocating
   suitable land.

   Component 4: Project Administration Support. The implementation of this component was
   satisfactory. Satisfactory documentation, including feasibility studies and environmental assessments,
   was prepared to support the 7 Phase II projects, covering some 25,000 hectares in total. In addition, the
   PMU duly managed fairly complex project management issues including: (a) executing a large number
   of civil works contracts (in addition to 167 NCB contracts with an average cost of US$150,000 per
   contract, the PMU also managed a few large ICB civil works contracts financed by the IsDB) on time,
   on budget, and with good quality; (b) managing various donors (IDA, Kuwait Fund, IsDB (parallel
   funding not included in the project), as well as resources from the Government of Italy) all of which
   providing funds in different currencies; and (c) institutional support (mainly coaching and mentoring
   WUAs, FWUAs, and DBs). Project financial audits from 1999 to 2003 (2004 is pending at the time of
   issuance of this report), and several post procurement reviews, reveal no significant fiduciary issues.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
   The primary project economic benefits are increased agricultural production and a corresponding
   increase in the incomes of farming families from the restoration and improvement of irrigation services.
   The increase in agricultural production occurred through an increase in yields and conversion to higher
   value crops. At appraisal, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was estimated at 20 ~50 percent,
   depending on the schemes.

   At project completion, the economic analysis was updated for five representative schemes (representing
   approximately one third of the irrigation area rehabilitated under the project), incorporating the actual
   costs and benefits. Through interviews with WUAs and various monitoring studies, the assumptions
   made at appraisal on crop patterns, namely reduction in low value crop (i.e. wheat), and increase in
   higher value crop (vegetable, fodder, fruit) prove to be generally valid. In addition, a significant
   increase in crop yields due to irrigation has also resulted in good gain in gross margin (refer to Annex 3
   for details). In summary, updated EIRRs for rehabilitation works range between 14 to 40 percent,
   roughly in line with project design estimates, and confirming the economic viability of the rehabilitated
   works.

   Table 2: Scheme-wise Updated EIRR for the Irrigation Rehabilitation Works
          Scheme              BRU 3        PEU 2         KOU 1        ELU 3         ELU 1
          EIRR, %               18.3         40.0          18.6        24.6          14.0
          Cost, $/ha            313          172           613          321          494

   Some of these figures are slightly lower than the estimate at appraisal mainly because more conservative
   assumptions have been used. Among the above, BRU 3 (3,950 ha), KOU 1 (6,050 ha), and ELU



                                                      - 9 -

   1(1,415 ha) have benefitted from the secondary canals rehabilitation. Consequently, rehabilitation costs
   for these three schemes were substantially higher, and the EIRR was depressed (particularly for ELU-1,
   where the rehabilitation works for the secondary canals have just been completed and the tangible
   benefits have not yet materialized). In the long-term, it is anticipated that rehabilitated secondary canals
   would enable irrigation in larger areas, and the economic benefits would be expanded eventually.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
   The project has significantly contributed to institutional development, namely development of WUAs
   and their federations (FWUAs) for the irrigation sector, and establishment of the drainage boards (DBs)
   in the flood control and drainage sector.

  l In irrigation, the project has played a catalytic role for establishing the Water User Associations
       (WUAs) and their federations (FWUAs). At completion, the project had assisted in establishing 108
       WUAs within the project area as the major output of the project (99 are operational at completion,
       refer Section 6.1). In addition, under the project's extensive support, 21 Federations of Water User
       Associations (FWUAs) had been established to take over the management of the primary canals,
       reservoirs and headworks. Furthermore, the project has also helped initatives of farmers to establish
       additional 68 WUAs throughout the country. These WUAs are awaiting the rehabilitation, and will
       be operational upon completion of the rehabilitation financed under teh WRMP. Transfer of
       irrigation management to users, through WUAs, has resulted in a profound change in the sector.
       WUAs and the Federations which manage major schemes are now a permanent institutional feature
       of rural areas, and farmers have willingly embraced responsibility for irrigation, and they no longer
       look to the government to resolve irrigation related problems. At this moment, about 70 percent of
       the irrigation command area has been already transferred to WUAs. The Government is in the
       process to complete the transfer of irrigation schemes all over the country by the 2006 irrigation
       season, and continued support is being provided under the WRMP. This achievement can be
       matched by at most three other countries in the world.

  l In drainage and flood management, the project has also played an important role in enabling the
       MoAF to take a very important first step to start `participatory budgeting' for the drainage and
       flood control sector by restructuring the state-owned [irrigation and drainage] Water Enterprises
       (WEs) into Drainage Boards (DBs). The project facilitated the establishment of 17 Drainage
       Boards by the end of 2004 covering the entire country. Unlike the WEs, which were directly
       controlled by the MoAF without any consultation with direct beneficiaries for drainage and flood
       control, the DBs are mainly managed by the main stakeholders such as farmers, local governments
       and business entrepreneurs under supervision by the MoAF. As the MoAF funds allocated for
       drainage and flood control still amount to US$5-7 million a year, constantly accounting for 35-40
       percent of its total budget, one impact of this reform is a major fiscal benefit. There has been
       considerable fiscal saving due to budget prioritization by stakeholders in Lushnje and Kavaje where
       the drainage boards have been established in 2003, and similar impacts are expected to become
       tangible for other regions in 2005 and 2006. Continued monitoring will be carried out under the
       WRMP, and under the framework of the public expenditure management framework.

  l In addition, it is noteworthy that the National Union of Water User Associations (NUWUA) has
       been spontaneously established by WUAs with the support of the project. At this moment, the
       NUWUA, fully funded by member WUAs, has 17 board members across the country. Its main



                                                     - 10 -

       objectives are to exchange views on WUAs matters, and consultation for policy formulation but it
       has also started providing mutual financial support for recovery from natural disasters and training
       for newly established WUAs. This is a very important step towards sustainability of the irrigation
       sector. The NUWUA's comment on the project is attached in Section 9.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
In general, the implementation of the project has been carried out smoothly without interruption. The
country did not experience new significant internal security issues after the collapse of the pyramid schemes
in early 1997 and farmers' interest in agriculture has been steadily restored. Neither the Kosovo Crisis
(early 1999) nor a series of ethnic conflicts in Macedonia (2001~2002) have negatively affected the
country's economic growth or implementation of the project.

Since 2002, regional security issues have notably improved and the overall environment for agriculture
development and irrigation has improved. For example, regional trade, particularly with Kosovo and
Macedonia, has greatly expanded and many migrant workers are returning and resuming agriculture,
making the issue of absent land owners much less serious compared to the mid 1990s. In addition, it
should be noted that the project benefited from the synergies with the Agriculture Service Project (ASP),
financed by IDA. In particular, the wholesale markets established in Lushnje and Korca have supported
the marketing of increased high-value agriculture products (particularly vegetables and potatoes) produced
through restored irrigation services under the project. A large number of land disputes within the irrigation
command areas are also being resolved due to land registration supported under the ASP.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The major factor contributing to the successful implementation of the project was political commitment to
the institutional reform envisaged under the project, namely development of WUAs and restructuring of
WEs. There were frequent government changes particularly between 1999 and 2001, but the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (MoAF) remained committed to the institutional reform. The institutional reform
agenda by definition implied divestiture of the state-owned WEs and devolution of budget allocation
authority to stakeholders, and there were a number of cases where WEs as well as the technical staff of the
MoAF tried to delay the reform and exclude beneficiaries from budget planning and execution. The senior
management of the MoAF was quite active in advocating the importance of the reform, and worked hard to
issue a Council of Ministers Decision to restructure WEs into DBs in 2004. In 2004, the Government
organized an international seminar on participatory irrigation management, co-sponsored by the World
Bank Institute (WBI) to present the country's strategy and progress in the irrigation and flood control
sector.

Under the project, it was originally planned that three ministry technical staff were assigned to participate
in the procurement evaluation committee. However, since July 2001, their participation became spotty, and
the implementation was mainly carried out by the PMU.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lastly, but most importantly, strong commitment and coordinated efforts of the Project Management Unit
(PMU) were the most important factors in successful implementation of the project, including institutional
reform. Following the IRP, the PMU satisfactorily managed a large number of small civil works contracts
with careful monitoring of all phases of work, including control of designs, attention to securing fair and
adequate competition in procurement processes, and supervision and quality control during construction.

In addition, upon official designation by the MoAF, the PMU continues to provide WUAs with extensive


                                                     - 11 -

technical support as well as monitoring their performance. A rapid rural appraisal carried out in early
2004 in conjunction with the preparation of the WRMP, indicated that the farmers appreciate the PMU's
support and find it very helpful and fair. The PMU also supported the initial operation of the DBs, by
playing the role of interlocutor between the Board of the DBs (mainly farmers, local government
representatives, and business entrepreneurs) and executive staff of the DBs (mainly technical staff
succeeded from the WEs) and ensuring the implementation of 'participatory budgeting' as envisaged.

An issue of over-commitment arose in late 2003. The PMU was managing four sources of funding with
four different currencies (SDR, Kuwait Dinar, USD, and EUR) under parallel arrangement, and it was
discovered that the PMU made over-commitments resulting from the rapid depreciation of the USD. The
issue was eventually resolved through cancellation of contracts and change in scope of rehabilitation, but
the experience revealed a weakness in currency management and inadequate communication among
financial and procurement staff. As a result, through this experience, the PMU has duly improved the
management procedures as well as its financial system.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no financing issues with regard to the implementation of the project. The Government in
general provided counterpart funds in an adequate and timely manner. The project adopted a sub-project
approach; therefore the scope and coverage of the project were adjusted according to the availability of
resources. Upon completion, there were requests from 38 WUAs covering about 16,000 hectares, which
were not able to get financing from the project; however, the Government intends to finance these WUAs
under the WRMP which is a follow-up project.

On the financing side, major changes after appraisal included: (a) the addition of parallel financing from
Kuwait Fund (US$11.5 million ) for Component 1 (System Rehabilitation) (official pledge was made after
appraisal); (b) the additional parallel financing from the Government of France (approximately
US$250,000 equivalent ) for Component 2 (Institutional Support, FWUA development); and (c)
community contribution (US$650,000 ) for Component 1 (System Rehabilitation, irrigation rehabilitation) .
These resulted in an increase in final project size, while the final contribution of IDA was reduced from the
envisaged US$24.0 million to US$23.4 million due to the appreciation of the USD vis-a-vis SDR during
early 2000s.

With regard to component-wise expenditures, costs for Component 1 increased slightly due to larger than
expected rehabilitation needs, mainly for drainage works at government's request (refer to Section 4.2,
Component 2). Otherwise, there were no major changes since appraisal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is likely that the achievements generated by the project will be maintained.

Irrigation. The primary responsibilities for irrigation operation and management are now assumed by the
WUAs. As stated in Sections 3.1 and 4.5, one of the primary objectives of this project was to achieve
sustainable irrigation management.        For this, the project helped develop community-based irrigation
management through Water User Associations (WUAs) and their federations (FWUAs). The establishment
and strengthening of the WUAs and FWUAs have substantially increased the sustainability of Albania's
irrigation sector. Farmers had lost confidence in WEs because of their failed performance and attitude
towards farmers, and farmers were eager to take over irrigation management. While no legal ownership of
infrastructure has been transferred, farmers consider irrigation facilities 'community goods' and damage to



                                                     - 12 -

irrigation canals due to theft or vandalism has almost stopped. While the WUAs and FWUAs still have
technical and administrative training needs, they have a clear understanding of their mandate to deliver
water to their members in a cost-effective and efficient manner without further financial support from the
Government. As stated in Section 4.1, while the overall cost recovery from users is not yet adequate to
finance long-term maintenance and repairs, it is encouraging to see that more than 85 percent of users are
paying their invoice sent by the WUAs. Thirteen (13) WUAs have started to collect adequate amounts to
cover full costs, and to build up their financial reserves for long-term maintenance cost.

Members of WUAs and FWUAs have equal voting rights regardless of the size of their land, helping to
prevent possible 'elite-capture' by a handful of people. The fairly short tenure of each term (2 years) of the
WUA assembly representatives also provide representatives with good incentives to perform well and earn
their respective members' trust, and reduce the risk of capture by powerful families or groups. Since 2000,
political interference in WUAs (particularly in elections of representatives) has greatly reduced. While there
are a few WUA chairman who are active in politics, and there are some political conflicts between the
WUAs and local governments, chairmen have increasingly become more concerned with their primary role
i.e. as managers of the WUAs operations. The poverty and social impact assessment carried out in early
2004 indicated that farmers are in general satisfied with the irrigation services. Farmers understand the
WUA's tasks; they know that they can select their representatives to take care of the irrigation problems,
and they know they can change their representatives in case of poor performance.                               With satisfactory
performance, adequate incentives, and trust from farmers, it is reasonable to assume that the WUAs and
FWUAs will continue to improve their performance in the future.

At project completion, a rapid inventory was carried out for the areas rehabilitated under the IRP and the
project to see the situation of the maintenance carried out by the WUAs. The results are shown in the
tables 1 and 2 below.

Table 1 Inventory of the rehabilitated infrastructure
                       Rehabilitated Area (ha)  Adequately Maintained Area (ha)        %
 IRP (1994-1999)               90,958                         69,292                   76.18%
 SIDRP                          52,708                        50,135                   95.12%
 (1999-2003)




Table 2 Number of operational WUAs
                      WUAs Established          WUAs Opeational           %
 IRP (1994-1999)                184                      126              68.48%
 SIDRP                          108                       99              91.67%
 (1999-2003)
Notes:
(1) Additional 62 WUAs were established under the SIDRP, but they were yet to function due to the pending rehabilitation works.
(2) The reasons of failed WUAs under the second project are: internal disputes, illegal encroachment, unwillingness of members to
make financial contribution.


These tables show that nearly one third of the WUAs, and one-fourth of the infrastructure supported under
the IRP are no longer functional, mainly as a result of rapid urbanization, thus loss of arable land, and
limited availability of electricity at the pumping stations due to changing local energy priorities. In
contrast, under the current project (SIDRP), 90 percent of the WUAs are operational, and 95 percent of the
infrastructure is maintained adequately (5 percent were not considered to be adequately maintained due to
the illegal modification of outlets by farmers). This is primary because the rehabilitation areas were
selected based on farmers' demand and commitment for irrigated agriculture (refer Section 3.3, Component
1). In this context, the project impacts are likely to be sustainable.



                                                              - 13 -

It should be noted, however, that the project was not able to support the overall capacity of the MoAF to
provide continued support to the WUAs and FWUAs and monitor their performance. Largely due to the
strong resistance of the MoAF staff towards WUA development and resulting hostile relationships between
the MoAF staff and farmers, the project has been somewhat implemented in isolation from the departmental
structure. The issue has been discussed at length during the preparation of the follow-up project (water
resource management project, WRMP), and would be addressed through the implementation of the
WRMP.

The project also suggested that the role of the local governments is critical to increase capacity of the
WUAs. The project had no particular focus on strengthening the link between local government and
WUAs, however, under the WRMP, particular attention will be given to make local governments aware of
the need for collaboration with WUAs.

Drainage and Flood Protection. As envisaged at appraisal, institutional reform in drainage and flood
protection has been largely completed.          Under the newly established Drainage Boards (DBs), flood
protection management has improved significantly. Most of the DBs' activities are of non-exclusive public
good characteristics such as flood protection and erosion protection, and it is therefore difficult to recover
costs from beneficiaries in the short to medium run. Nevertheless, the institutional reform has positive
fiscal impacts, such as to prioritize the budget allocation and increasingly efficient use of the budget with
full participation of stakeholders. Independent reviews carried out in 2003 and 2004 indicated that these
efforts have already had an important positive impact.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
While good progress has been made, the following risks identified at completion threaten long-term
sustainability of the project impacts. These risks have been discussed with the borrower, who agreed to
take appropriate mitigation measures under the WRMP.

Cost Recovery for Irrigation. Despite steady progress, the amount collected from irrigation charges
remains too low due mainly to under-budgeting for post-season maintenance works. In addition, under the
current tariff structure which does not have a fixed-part tariff, WUAs tend to have inadequate resources
during the irrigation season of wet years. The project management unit (PMU) has already discussed this
issue with the NUWUA and agreed that the following actions will be taken: (a) the annual fee for
membership will be raised from US$1.00 equivalent to US$ 3.00, which is considered adequate to cover
minimum necessary pre-season maintenance; (b) carry out internal study tours and workshops to learn from
the best practices on cost recovery; (c) strengthening of the NUWUA's with the establishment of a fund
(funded exclusively from member contributions) for urgent repair of damages caused by natural disasters.

Further Support for Drainage Boards. Many DBs are in the initial stages of development and need
extensive training of both executive staff and board members, and there is a need for extensive training for
at least the next 12 months (one full cycle for budget planning and execution). For the executive staff,
training should cover general public management (budgeting, implementation, and reporting), fiduciary
management (accounting and procurement), and technical matters to facilitate effective day-to-day
operation. For board members, training should cover overall business planning, financial and technical
audit, and legal issues to facilitate effective supervision and monitoring.

Regulation and Facilitation by the MoAF. As the responsibilities for irrigation and drainage are being
decentralized to stakeholders, the role of the MoAF should be transformed from implementation of budget
funded activities into planning, facilitation and monitoring as summarized below.



                                                       - 14 -

         Planning:
    l overall policy and inter-ministerial coordination for water resource management;
    l budget allocation for irrigation and drainage sector based on priority and needs.


         Facilitation and Monitoring
    l coaching for WUAs and DBs including technical advice;
    l technical and financial supervision for WUAs and DBs;
    l monitoring the impacts of budget allocation.


In the past, the need for such a transformation of the MoAF's role has been overlooked. The Law on
Irrigation and Drainage stipulates establishment of a "Supervisory Department" to facilitate and monitor
the performance of WUAs and DBs, but this has never been implemented and the MoAF continues to
delegate the responsibilities to the PMU, which is a temporary institution. In the meantime, the planning
capacity of the MoAF (Department of Water Management (DoWM)) needs substantial strengthening. At
completion of the project, this issue was discussed with concerned MoAF management and agreed that: (a)
an action plan will be developed under the WRMP to integrate the PMU into the MoAF structure to
internalize the supervision of the WUAs and DBs; and (b) technical assistance will be provided to the
DoWM to strengthen its planning capacity.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The overall performance of the Bank in preparation is rated satisfactory. During project preparation, the
Bank was fully involved in policy dialogue with all stakeholders and advised the Government of Albania to
finalize the draft Law on Irrigation and Drainage, which enabled the establishment of the Federations of
WUAs (FWUAs) to take over the managerial responsibilities for primary irrigation facilities collectively by
concerned WUAs, and transformation of state-owned drainage and irrigation water enterprises (WEs) into
participatory drainage boards (DBs).

The project objectives were consistent with the CAS objective and overall sector strategy. The target of the
policy reform agenda was widely supported by all stakeholders, and proved to be realistic and practical.
The physical target were also considered to be realistic, considering the duration of the implementation
period and capacity of the Albanian counterpart.

7.2 Supervision:
Through intensive supervision (refer Annex 4 for details) by the Bank project team, the project received
timely advice on project implementation as well as policy and institutional reform in light of Albania's very
dynamic environment. For example, independent performance reviews carried out in 2003 and 2004 jointly
with the MoAF's Internal Audit Department to examine the business practices of the WEs and DBs,
identified procurement and financial issues that needed to be improved. Later, the missions provided advice
in finalizing statutes for the DBs, which were eventually approved by the Council of the Ministers.

The team also assisted the PMU in developing a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system as the MoAF
did not have any reliable statistics, including crop data, yield, and production. At completion, the M&E
system has been fully established and is capable of monitoring the performance of the WUAs both
technically and financially. This system is continuously used under the WRMP, and eventually will be
transferred to MoAF's permanent structure. The project team also played a critical role in obtaining an
Institutional Development Fund (IDF) for the MoAF to enhance its statistical capacity.


                                                     - 15 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. In response to policy advice from
IDA, the Government indicated its full commitment to pursue further reform in the irrigation sector, and
expand the 'participation principle' in the flood control and drainage sector. The Government duly finalized
the draft Law on Irrigation and Drainage prior to appraisal, and the draft was approved by the Parliament
prior to Board presentation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The MoAF consistently provided the
project with logistics and fiscal support throughout the implementation of the project, and policy dialogue
with the Bank was also carried out smoothly. Since the inception of the project in 1999, the MoAF has
organized an annual national irrigation seminar to exchange views on WUA development among
stakeholders, mainly irrigation farmers, and identify actions to be followed up under the project. In
addition, as stated in Section 5.2, the MoAF also organized an international seminar on participatory
irrigation management inviting some 90 international experts and practitioners to disseminate the outcome
of the WUA development and learn from other countries' experience.

While there were some delays in restructuring WEs, in retrospect, the Government made its best effort and
adopted a realistic approach. Upon implementation of the project, the Government found it politically
difficult to restructure WEs and retrench redundant staff. The Government then gradually reduced the
number of staff of the WEs through scheduled retirement and retrenchment resulting from transfer of
irrigation management to WUAs/FWUAs. Shortly after the floods in the fall of 2002, the MoAF decided
to start formal restructuring of the WEs in Lushnje and Kavaja, where irrigation responsibilities were fully
transferred to WUAs/FWUAs. The MoAF organized an independent review on WE performance in the fall
of 2003, and confirmed the positive impacts of the restructuring. The Government scaled up the
restructuring to the entire country, and all other 15 WEs were fully restructured into Drainage Boards prior
to the completion of the project.

During preparation of the project, the Government also agreed that the participatory principle should
further be expanded to water resource management. While the farmers use more than 85 percent of surface
water, they are not currently represented at any of the six River Basin Committees (RBCs). The MoAF is
currently helping the National Water Committee (NWC) Secretariat to revise the statutes of the RBCs, and
this effort is being supported by the WRMP.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency, the PMU, is rated satisfactory. Staffed with qualified
professionals from diverse backgrounds, the PMU gave its utmost to achieving the project objectives and
implementation of the project in a very dynamic environment. With active interactions with policy makers
and stakeholders, the PMU took a proactive approach and proposed innovative but realistic solutions when
implementation encountered serious problems. Consequently, the project has been implemented without
serious interruption and good progress has been made in institutional reform.

However, it has been observed that the MoAF depended somewhat excessively on the PMU, given its
limited administrative capacity. In particular, the MoAF charged the PMU with the responsibility for



                                                     - 16 -

facilitating the WUA's establishment and supervising their performance. The PMU has been active in
supporting initial operation of the DBs. These are core activities of the MoAF, and should be carried out
by the MoAF's permanent structure. Now the challenge is to mainstream the experience and expertise
aquired by the PMU into the MoAF structure, and discussions in that regard have just started with MoAF
(refer Annex 8, Lessons Learned).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

   The following lessons have been drawn from the implementation of the project:

   Use of Specialized `Project Management Unit'. In 1999 at the inception of the project, Albania was in
   the midst of Kosovo Crisis, following its own internal turmoil in 1997 and 1998. In light of weak
   administrative capacity, and fast turnover of the technical staff of the Government, the establishment of
   a specialized unit to implement the project was inevitable.        The success of the project is indeed
   attributable to the use of the PMU, which had an autonomous status under the Albanian Law. The
   PMU was able to attract competent and committed professionals. While important decisions on sector
   policies remained under control of the senior management of the MoAF and of the project steering
   committee, day-to-day project management, was delegated to the PMU. The PMU was then audited by
   state financial inspectors and an international auditor every year. In addition, under this project, the
   design and construction works were approved and supervised approved by the farmers.                   This
   arrangement has proven that the implementation of such a community-driven project can be made in an
   efficient, cost-effective, and transparent manner. In addition, the PMU was able to minimize political
   interference and facilitate the development of WUAs, which in principle devolved the irrigation
   responsibilities from the MoAF to farmers (WUAs). It should be noted that neither the elimination of
   corruption in contracting, nor devolution of management to beneficiaries, was in the personal interest of
   ministry staff, and the accomplishment of these two goals may have required a PMU.

   However, the use of the PMU has inevitably brought a new challenge to strengthen the MoAF to have
   adequate monitoring, regulatory, and supporting capacity of the WUAs. The implementation of the
   project through the PMU left the line MoAF without any capacity. This is becoming a major risk to the
   sustainability of project impacts (refer Section 6.1). At project completion, a discussion has started as
   to how to utilize the PMU's expertise to improve MoAF's capacity and governance, and under the
   WRMP, it is envisaged that some PMU staff would be transferred to the MoAF to monitor the
   performance of WEs and WUA.

   Optimal Mix of Institutional Reform and Physical Investment. The project also highlighted the
   importance of providing infrastructure investment in parallel to institutional reform. The investment has
   not only facilitated the WUAs' irrigation operation and improved service delivery; but also positively
   influenced farmers' views on WUA development and encouraged them to take over managerial
   responsibilities. The improved irrigation services have also generated significant increase in farming
   income, making cost recovery for irrigation more affordable.

   Full Participation of Communities (Farmers) in Project Design and Implementation. The success of
   the project is due partly to its strong community participation approach where sub-projects were
   selected based on farmers' up-front commitment to irrigation through: (a) organization of
   WUAs/FWUAs; (b) agreement for irrigation management transfer; and (c) up-front contributions



                                                    - 17 -

   towards the rehabilitation costs. In addition, the project has also established a clear role for, and rights
   of farmers in design and supervision so as to ensure their full satisfaction. This approach has yielded
   significant beneficial outcomes such as smooth implementation of rehabilitation works, high satisfaction
   of farmers, immediate use of rehabilitated canals, and good maintenance.

   Monitoring Indicators.      The project also suggested that an incremental approach for monitoring and
   evaluation (M&E), starting with a simple M&E system that would be gradually developing into a more
   complex one, can be effective in the long-run. At appraisal, in the absence of reliable statistical
   information on agriculture production, a small number of fairly simple and quantifiable indicators
   mainly on project economic impacts were established. During the first two years of implementation, a
   cost-effective and practical M&E system was established involving beneficiaries and local experts. As
   local capacities grew, the M&E system was further developed to carry out qualitative analysis on equity
   and sustainability of the irrigation system, which are ultimate project objectives (refer Section 4.1 for
   the outcome of the M&E).         This incremental approach was cost-effective and sustainable, without
   incurring large dependency on international expertise, and nurturing local capacity and ownership.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
   The following are the summary of the comments provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.

   The outcome of the project is appreciated, and the Government would like extend its commitment to the
   expansion and acceleration of the institutional reform.

   The Project is consistent with the Government's priorities and CAS objectives and the initial objectives
   of the Project were coherent with the state and development of the sector. In this context, the Project is
   credited with providing a considerable contribution towards the rehabilitation of 85,000 hectares of
   irrigation and 92,000 hectares of drainage (mainly focused on rehabilitation and resectioning of drainage
   canals and repair of pumping stations) in the most serious areas, thus going beyond the initial plan.
   Taking into consideration the experience of the First Irrigation and Drainage Project, the Second Project
   adopted a "demand driven" approach for identifying and financing interventions in this sector. The
   Project has also significantly supported the process of institutional reforms in the irrigation and
   drainage fields.

   The Project has made an important contribution to improve irrigation management sustainability
   through the transfer of operation and maintenance responsibilities of irrigation works, main canals and
   reservoirs, to WUAs and FWUAs, and contributed to the increased management capacity of these
   organizations. It is a positive fact that the financial contribution paid by users for irrigation water has
   increased significantly during the recent years. However, a considerable part of the rehabilitated surface
   was not irrigated during the 2004 season and many WUAs and FWUAs were unable to fully
   accomplished their obligations and responsibilities. Particular issues are; inadequate level of long-term
   maintenance, political intervention in WUA management, remaining inequities in the water distribution.
   In our view, the rapid transfer of irrigation schemes before WUAs and FWUAs had reached an
   acceptable level of management skills, have made it harder to achieve satisfactory results in irrigation
   management, negatively influencing the sustainability of the rehabilitated systems.

   While good impacts have been observed, the data could be debatable as it was not consulted with the
   Directors at the MoAF. [Note: these data were based on the observation made by international
   consultants recruited under the project]



                                                      - 18 -

   The Project has given important support to: (i) the rehabilitation of drainage canals and pumping
   stations; (ii) the restructuring of Water Enterprises and their transformation into Drainage Boards; (iii)
   the increase of participation of actors interested in planning and managing interventions for flood
   control; and (iv) the increase of management capacities of Drainage Boards. However, we believe that
   the alternative arrangement could have been studied and piloted so that the functions of different Boards
   better comply with regional features of this sector.

   On institutional arrangements, the project may have been excessively dependent on the PMU, and in the
   future, more close collaboration with the line department (Department of Water Management, in
   particular) would be necessary. In some cases, the PMU's competancies were not clear. Furthermore,
   it would have been better to segregate the design and supervision from the same structure (i.e. PMU).

   The Project has demonstrated that inclusion of stakeholders and beneficiaries in the planning and
   management of interventions has a positive impact on the efficiency of use of funds and improves
   irrigation and drainage schemes management. However, completion of reform and achievement of
   sustainability in this sector needs further improvement, especially as regards:

   (i)   improvement of legal framework on irrigation and drainage in connection with a better definition of
   competencies and responsibilities of actors interested in administration and use of such systems;
   (ii) increase of the role and responsibilities of local government in the administration of irrigation and
   drainage schemes;
   (iii) further enhancement of WUAs management skills;
   (iv) improvement of functioning and increase of Drainage Boards management skills.

   Despite emphasizing the importance of good coordination among different institutions involved in the
   institutional reforms process, administration and operation of irrigation and drainage systems, the level
   of coordination remains unsatisfactory. Interventions by the Project and by the Drainage Boards have
   not been coordinated sufficiently to ensure a positive impact on the situation. The coordination of
   interventions and exchange of information on regular basis would significantly contribute to the increase
   of effectiveness of investments, and to a more rapid progress of reforms.

   During the last years, the Government in collaboration with the World Bank and other donors have made
   considerable investments for the rehabilitation and increase of efficiency of the existing irrigation and
   drainage systems in Albania. However, rehabilitation and maintenance of these systems will need further
   investment in the future. In this context, especially in regard to irrigation, it is necessary to identify
   schemes and the most effective alternative methods. Such schemes might have a high initial cost but
   having a lower maintenance cost and being easier to manage, they might result more effective.

(b) Cofinanciers:
We, representatives of operations of The Kuwait Fund are pleased to express our satisfaction of the
successful implementation of the second phase of the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage schemes in
the republic of Albania, which in turn encouraged our participation in financing the third current phase.
During our participation in the said project, we could see the development and the enhancement of the
agricultural sector in the country. These developments are reflected in the increment of the agricultural
output in general and the improving management of the related schemes. In this regard we note with
appreciation the vital role of the project management unit and the establishment of the water users
associations which made the development and progress of the project even more noticeable.
We wish that our views will help in the development of the project and we assure you of our readiness to



                                                      - 19 -

extend all possible assistance to make this project a success.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
            The following is the summary of the opinion expressed by the National Union of Federation and
   Water User Associations.

            In our view, we have positive assessments made about all project components. We are
   particularly interested in some important issues raised in the project:

   1.    Transparency in project implementation. We would like to emphasize that we have benefited from
   transparency shown during the project implementation. We were totally involved with all phases of
   implementation: the design, the bidding process, supervision, and taking over the civil works upon
   completion. We now feel responsible for the rehabilitated works that are transferred to WUAs.

   2.    Drainage is as important as irrigation. Almost all Union members are Drainage Boards members
   in their respective districts, as well. The Drainage Boards started to function very well, with full
   transparency, and all participants were involved in decision-making. Unfortunately, this good initiative
   taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is not as successful as it was when it started. After some
   decisions made by the same Ministry, the Drainage Boards failed to comply with their functioning
   criteria stated in the statute.

   3.    WUAs functioning. Establishment of WUAs started in 1994 on voluntary basis. At the same time,
   rehabilitation of irrigation works started mainly in the most urgent schemes specified in the project
   appraisal document.

   WUAs have strengthened from year to year due to the support given by the Project. We elect the
   Administrative and the Executive Council in the General Meeting with farmers. We also analyze the
   activities of the irrigation season in a transparent way. Through WUAs we have been able to irrigate and
   increase the agricultural production, to resolve the disputes among farmers, and maintain irrigation
   structures with the contribution collected by farmers for the irrigated surface. During the years that
   irrigation has been managed by WUAs, expenses for maintenance of irrigation works have been covered
   by revenues provided from irrigation, which are deposited in bank accounts. During this process, we
   have had the continuous institutional support and assistance of the First and the Second Irrigation and
   Drainage Rehabilitation Projects. In some districts, we were not fully supported by the local government
   and the Departments of Agriculture, and lacked the collaboration and technical assistance of the Water
   Enterprises, today's Drainage Boards. We have taken upon responsibility for irrigation so far but we
   request full transparency of the Drainage Boards and consideration of our opinions in the process of
   decision-making. Due to implementation of the World Bank criteria, such as membership into
   associations, contribution collected by farmers, we have benefited from the rehabilitation of a
   considerable surface. As a result, the agricultural production and the economic level of farmers have
   increased.

            With the purpose of consolidating WUAs and increasing the economic indicators, we would
   require the continuous support of the Project and the exercise of your authority over the District
   Departments of Agriculture, Drainage Boards, and local government. A better collaboration with the
   above-mentioned structures would result in a better functioning and sustainability of WUAs. We assure
   you that irrigation management through WUAs is effective and an alternative that seeks support.

10. Additional Information



                                                      - 20 -

None




        - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Achieve Sustainable and Equitable Use of
Water for Agricultural Production.

. Crop-wise yield increase                                                               Typically over 150 percent increase for high
                                              20 percent                                 value crops.
. Number of farmers using available irrigation
water and technologies increasing their
farming income by at least 10 percent         50,000 families                            Estimated 50,000 families
. Conversion to higher value crops (appraisal 15 percent                                 20 percent
estimate: 15 percent of irrigated areas
dedicated to potatoes and vegetables).

. gaps between yield in upstream WUAs and
downstream WUAs (appraisal estimate: less
than 15 percent).                             15 percent                                 Difficult to measure, but overall achieved the
                                                                                         objective (see note 1)
. Percentage of rehabilitated main irrigation
canals transferred to WUAs and maintained
adequately (90 percent).                                                                 100 percent
                                              100 percent
Reduce risk of flood

. The number of flood incidences              (Reduced by 50 percent by the end of the   Difficult to quantify, but flood risks
                                              project)                                   significantly reduced. No floods except in
                                                                                         December of 2004 due to unusually heavy
                                                                                         rains


Notes: 1: Out of 16 WUAs supported under the project, 12 achieved delivery of water to the end of their main canals, of which
7 succeeded in fulfilling the design flow; implying that there are no longer major distribution issues. The other 4 have also
improved water distribution significantly. Refer to Table 1 in Section 4.1.


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Area returned to irrigation (hectares)        50,000                                     52,000

Area returned to drainage (hectares)          50,000                                     92,000


Number of rehabilitated dams                  30                                         25 (see note 2)
Percentage of Rehabilitated Area Irrigated    70 percent                                 45 percent (in 2004) due to the recent
                                                                                         completion of the rehabilitation works
Percentages of primary canals managed by      50 percent                                 100 percent
the FWUAs within 6 months from the            100 percent                                100 percent
rehabilitation
percentages of secondary canals managed
by the WUAs within 6 months from the
rehabilitation
Percentage of Irrigating members paying       90 percent                                 Nearly 100 percent
water fees in full
Drainage Board established and fully          7 Districts                                15 completing the nation wide reform
functional

1End of project
2: due to the reduced scope of works. Refer Section 3.3, Component 2.




                                                               - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Component 1: System Rehabilitation                          26.70           35.52              133
Component 2: Institutional Support                           2.46             3.24             122
Component 3: Technical Studies                               0.57             0.40              70
Component 4: Implementation Support                          2.73             3.33             122

Total Baseline Cost                                         32.46           42.49
 Physical Contingencies                                      4.10
 Price Contingencies                                         3.91
                        Total Project Costs                 40.47           42.49
                  Total Financing Required                  40.47           42.49


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                         N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             18.00         2.60          10.10        30.70
                                  (0.00)          (15.10)      (2.20)          (0.00)       (17.30)
2. Goods                          0.50              0.00         1.20          0.10          1.80
                                  (0.50)           (0.00)      (1.20)          (0.00)       (1.70)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         3.60          2.70          6.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.40)          (0.00)       (3.40)
4. Incremental Operating          0.00              0.00         1.70          0.00          1.70
Costs
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.60)          (0.00)       (1.60)
   Total                          0.50             18.00         9.10          12.90        40.50
                                  (0.50)          (15.10)      (8.40)          (0.00)       (24.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             26.90        0.00           4.16        31.06
                                  (0.00)          (15.62)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (15.62)
2. Goods                          2.05             0.00         0.31           0.04         2.40
                                  (2.05)          (0.00)       (0.31)         (0.00)       (2.36)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         3.28           2.31         5.59
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (3.28)         (0.00)       (3.28)
4. Incremental Operating          0.00             0.00         2.12           1.32         3.44
Costs
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (2.09)         (0.00)       (2.09)



                                                - 23 -

  Total                                2.05              26.90              5.71             7.83             42.49
                                      (2.05)            (15.62)            (5.68)            (0.00)           (23.35)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

   1. Introduction

   The economics of irrigation and drainage rehabilitation under the project was re-evaluated for the five
   Phase I sub-projects. These were BRU 3, PEU 2, KOU 1, ELU 3, and ELU 1 where, the main canal
   and drainage rehabilitation had in most cases been completed by 2002, and some tangible impacts
   have been observed.

   Discussions with WUAs revealed that current levels of irrigation in these sub-projects had not yet
   reached the levels adopted by the 1999 feasibility studies, which set out "with" and "without" project
   scenarios to estimate the EIRRs at appraisal. It was therefore not possible to confirm the outcome of
   the appraisal EIRRs, and accordingly, it was found necessary to develop a new model and to
   recalculate the EIRRs. Nonetheless, it was found that the basic logic and assumption adopted in the
   appraisal were still valid: the "with" and "without" project yield assumptions were cross-checked with
   WUAs and PMU and confirmed to be reasonable and still valid. A review of current prices indicated
   that agriculture inputs are generally marginally lower (in Lek terms). It was concluded that the crop
   budgets in the feasibility studies could still be used in Lek terms, although adjustments, as mentioned
   below, were necessary in US$ terms.

   In process of re-evaluating the EIRRs, attention has been made to the depreciation of the USD. Over
   the project life, from the appraisal in early 1999 to completion in 2005, the USD depreciated from
   Lek 145 to about Lek 100. The consequence for the current re-evaluation of the sub-projects is that
   actual expenditure on rehabilitation (generally incurred in the period of low $ value) is out of balance
   with revenues derived from the studies when expressed in US$ terms. As in the re-evaluation of
   sub-project economics, the revenue stream is derived from the feasibility studies in US$, an increase
   in crop gross margins (economic terms) of 15% is included, which is thought to be conservative. In
   calculating financial returns for farmers, this factor is increased to 25%.

   2. Assumptions and Economic Model
   While the project rehabilitates drainage and irrigation systems together, correctly appreciating that
   irrigation cannot develop without adequate drainage, and the two were integrated in the feasibility
   studies, the following economic evaluation separates the economic evaluation of drainage and
   irrigation. This was facilitated by evaluation of LUK 5, a sixth scheme, which is a drainage-only
   sub-project.

   Drainage Model
   The basic model for drainage rehabilitation economics is based on the following three benefits:

   l conversion of an uncultivated water-logged area to rainfed agriculture;
   l a substantial improvement in rainfed agriculture productivity in the immediate surrounding area
        where drainage is impeded (50% of present to rehabilitated Gross Margin (GM); and
   l a modest increase in rainfed agriculture productivity in a wider area, benefiting from slightly
        improved drainage (25% of present to rehabilitated GM).

   The cropping pattern and crop gross margins used in the economic analysis are derived from the
   feasibility studies and adjusted after discussion with WUA representatives and PMU field staff.




                                                   - 25 -

Irrigation Model
The basic model for irrigation rehabilitation economics is based on the following two benefits:

l improvement in the productivity of the currently irrigated area resulting from more reliable
    irrigation; and
l conversion of an area of rainfed agriculture to reliable irrigation.


Cropping Patterns
The cropping pattern originally developed at appraisal has been updated in consultation with the
WUAs. It has been revealed that there were strong similarities between the cropping patterns in all
sub-projects investigated. In each case, the main crops were the same, and the proportions were
similar. Differences are due to local market climate differences, but these will certainly even out in
response to economic pressures as markets and communications improve. Consequently, it was
possible to develop the following common cropping pattern broadly applicable across all
sub-projects:

                    Crops                              Rainfed,                     Irrigated [a],
                                                       % of area             % of area
    Wheat                                                  40                            30
    Maize grain                                                                          12
    Maize fodder                                                                         15
    Beans                                                  20                            25
    Alfalfa                                                20
    Winter fodder                                          20
    Vegetables and fruit                                                                 25
    Total                                                  100                           107
[a] Wheat is grown for subsistence, and some of the maize forage is grown later on the same land.


Yields and crop gross margins
Through discussions with WUAs, it was confirmed that the feasibility study yield assumptions were
valid, even a little conservative, and that yields are broadly similar across the sub-projects.
Consequently, the following gross margin (GM) has been developed:

  Gross Margin (GM) for Rain-Fed Area
                          Area (%)      GM ($/ha)
Crop
  Wheat                              40          -40
  Alfalfa                            20         300
  Bean                               20         350
  Winter Fodder                      20         161
Total                              100
Average GM                                   146.2



  Gross Margin (GM) for Irrigated Area




                                                    - 26 -

                                         GM ($/ha) Before   GM ($/ha) After
                          Area (%)      Rehabilitation     Rehablitation
Crop
  Maize Grain                       12                  229               350
  Maize Fodder                      15                  200               297
  Alfalfa                           25                  290               550
  Vegetables                        25                  762              1074
Total (1)                           77
Average GM                                           320.48           492.55
Note (1) excluding wheat

From these two tables, economic benefits, per ha per annum, resulting from rehabilitation of
irrigation are estimated at

US$ 346.35 (=492.55-146.20) for those areas where the rehabilitation works converted rain-fed
areas to irrigation; and

US$ 172.07 (= 492.55-320.48) for those areas where the rehabilitation works improved the irrigation
(i.e. partial irrigation to full irrigation)


Conversion to Irrigation.
Finally, based on the 2005 situation, the following scenario has been developed to estimate the area
to convert from rainfed/partial irrigation to full irrigation resulting from the rehabilitation works.
The economic benefits for each subproject were estimated using the GM calculated above.

Estimated area to be converted to full irrigation (hectares)
                                  PEU 2      ELU 3      BRU 3      KOU 1      ELU 1
    Gross Command Area              1,249      1,415     4,030       6,050      4,350
    Irrigation Before Rehab.          400        450       500         800        649
    Irrigation After Rehab.           610        650     1,050       2,800      1,316


    Conversion from
      Rainfed to Full                 210        200       550       2,000        667
    Irrigation
      Partial to Full                 400        450       500         800        649
    Irrigation



3.Economic Internal Rate of Returns (EIRRs)
Drainage
An analysis on the LUK 5 shows that the EIRR is estimated at 22%, confirming adequate economic
viability of the drainage investment.




                                                  - 27 -

Irrigation
The economic model representing rehabilitation of irrigation systems, the principles of which are
described above, was set up to determine the EIRR of five sub-projects. The total area of these five
schemes is approximately 17,000 hectares, accounting for nearly one third (32.8 percent) of the total
area rehabilitated under the irrigation. The total rehabilitation cost for these five schemes were
approximately US$5.97 million, implying the average rehabilitation cost of about US$351, which is
very close to the overall everage rehabilitation cost (US$353). In this context, these five schemes
were considered to be representative.

   Scheme                        BRU 3        PEU 2         KOU 1         ELU 3         ELU 1
   EIRR, %                         18            40           19            25            14
   Cost, $/ha                     313           172           613           321          494

It should be noted that the above-mentioned EIRRs were estimated under very conservative
scenarios, where the irrigation areas after rehabilitation were based on the 2005 results. As farmers
would be more and more confident about improved irrigation services, the irrigation area would
likely increase, and so would the EIRRs. Nevertheless, these figures confirmed that it is safe to
conclude that the rehabilitation works carried out under the project are economically viable even at
completion.

In carrying out the economic analysis, the importance of rehabilitating secondary canals has also
been revealed. While the total rehabilitation costs would increase, investment in secondary canals
would likely increase economic returns through increasing the area converted to full irrigation. This
occurs through improved water delivery and consequent more irrigation area downstream with
improved equity. This would certainly strengthen WUAs' operation through more trust and more
income, increasing overall sustainability of the scheme.

In general, similar conclusions can be drawn for other sub-projects under the project. However, one
exception is BRU 4. Despite an investment of approximately $600,000 (at $464/ha) starting in
2000, no tangible benefits have been observed, as the irrigated area has not significantly increased.
The main reason is the illegal encroachment on main canals. This illegal encroachment has stopped
the rehabilitation works and caused difficulties in irrigation management. In 2004, finally the illegal
encroachment has been resolved under the new management of the WUAs and intervention by the
MoAF, and the rehabilitation works have been resumed under the WRMP. It is expected that the
investment in BRU-4 will eventually result in a positive EIRR as well once the works are completed.




                                               - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              3/15/1998                 4    ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1); IRRIGATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/20/1998                6    ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1); IRRIGATION
                                             SPECIALIST (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1), FMS(1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              2/15/1999                 4    ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1), SECTOR MANAGER
                                             (1)


 Supervision
              10/02/1999                6    ECONOMIST (1); FMO (1);          S               S
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                             (1); IRRIGATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                                             ASSISTANT (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)


              02/18/2000                5    ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT           S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); IRRIGATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FISHERY
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LEGAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              07/16/2000                4    IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);         S               S
                                             SR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
              01/26/2001                4    ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION        S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1); FMS (1)
              08/13/2001                4    ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION        S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              12/05/2001                3    ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION        S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)
              04/25/2002                4    ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT           S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); IRRIGATION
                                             SPECIALIST (2)



                                              - 29 -

               05/16/2003                      4   ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION          HS           S
                                                   SPECIALIST (3)
               09/12/2003                      4   ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT             S            S
                                                   OFFICER (1); IRRIGATION
                                                   SPECIALIST (2);
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                   (1)
               03/01/2004                      4   ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT             S            S
                                                   OFFICER (1); IRRIGATION
                                                   SPECIALIST (2)
               09/01/2004                      4   ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT             S            S
                                                   OFFICER (1); IRRIGATION
                                                   SPECIALIST (2)
               03/18/2005                      4   ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT             S            S
                                                   OFFICER (1); IRRIGATION
                                                   SPECIALIST (2)

In addition to the above-mentioned missions, supervision on financial management was carried out
periodically by the resident financial management specialist

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    35.7                       250,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         10.0                        70,000
  Supervision                                   83.7                       586,000
  Total                                        134.2                       929,000
including FAO/CP and Trust Fund support




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Implementation Completion Report (Borrower's Report), the Minsitry of Agriculture and Food,
  February 2005
l Economics of Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation (May 2004)
l 2004 WUA Performance Review
l Mission Aide memoires along with PSRs/ISRs




                                              - 33 -

- 34 -

