Report No. PID6846
PID6846
Project Name                     Albania-Second Irrigation and Drainage (@#+)
Rehabilitation
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       ALPE43178
Borrower                         Albania
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Project Management Unit
Tel:    355 42 23825
Fax:    355 42 23825
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           March 31, 1999
Date Initial PID Prepared        July 2, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         February 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 22, 1999
1.      Background
Agriculture is the lead sector of the Albanian economy, and has consistently
accounted for approximately 50 percent of GDP and 60 percent of total
employment during the last five years.
Irrigation is of vital importance to agriculture. While Albania has
substantial annual rainfall, less than 20 percent occurs in the six month
period from April to September. The crop water deficit between June and
August ranges between 400 and 500 mm, which cannot be supplied from soil
moisture, making irrigation necessary for summer and perennial crops.
Drainage is also important in order to prevent floods and water-logging in
winter, particularly in the coastal plain. Indeed, the construction of
irrigation and drainage schemes was given high priority under the socialist
regime, and by the mid-1980s, irrigation and drainage schemes covering about
420,000 and 430,000 hectares respectively had been constructed.
During the gradual decline of the economy during the last period of the
socialist regime, many irrigation schemes entered into a vicious cycle of
inadequate budget allocation, deferred maintenance, system deterioration, and
unreliable water delivery. Many irrigation and drainage facilities ceased
operations with the massive destruction of public property which marked the
demise of the socialist regime in 1991. Only 80,000 hectares were actually
irrigated in 1993.
The first irrigation rehabilitation project (first project) started in
December 1993 with the objectives of (a) helping emerging small private



farmers increase agricultural production through critical rehabilitation of
irrigation and drainage canals and (b) ensuring the long-term sustainability
of irrigation through introduction of participatory irrigation management
(PIM). Progress to date is satisfactory.
2.      Objectives
The primary objectives of the proposed second project are to (a) increase the
farming incomes of small private farmers through critical rehabilitation of
irrigation and drainage facilities, and (b) increase the sustainability of the
irrigation and drainage subsector through institutional reform. In
particular, the project would support the Government's initiatives in
restructuring state-owned water enterprises, and would continue support to
water user associations and to the promotion of management transfer to final
users.
3.      Description
The project would finance the following components: (a) rehabilitation of the
deteriorated/damaged irrigation facilities; (b) institutional support for
development of water user associations (WUAs), and restructuring of water
enterprises; (c) technical studies to improve irrigation designs and
operations; and (d) project administration support.
4.      Financing
The total project cost is estimated to be US$41.5 million, of which IDA may
finance up to US$22.0 million.
5.      Implementation
The project is expected to be implemented during the period from 1999 to 2004,
under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The project
management unit for the first irrigation project (PMU/IRP) will be responsible
for carrying out day-to-day activities.
6.      Sustainability
The project aims to provide an appropriate policy and institutional framework
for technically, environmentally and fiscally sustainable irrigation and
drainage management. The project would:
- increase the feeling of ownership of irrigation and drainage facilities
among beneficiaries and reduce the risk of vandalism;
- aim to establish community (WUA)-based infrastructure management of
irrigation and drainage facilities, raising the willingness to properly and
legally maintain and operate the transferred irrigation canals, with the
expectation of full recovery of operation and maintenance costs from
beneficiaries;
- restructure ailing water enterprises and develop a dependable drainage
management institution under the close supervision of major beneficiaries
including local governments and farmers.
- 2-



7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank's main lesson in irrigation development, learnt all over the world,
is that sustainability is not achieved without intensive beneficiary
participation. Participation is thus the key to project design, and would be
incorporated at all phases of the project, from identification of the
rehabilitation requirements, through design and construction supervision, to
final system transfer upon completion.
8.      Poverty Category
Not Applicable
9.      Environmental Aspects
Drainage improvements would involve some channel dredging and construction in
waterways. Therefore, individual sub-project environmental reviews would
address the impacts of construction activities such as sedimentation,
downstream impacts, and dredge material disposal as applicable. Any potential
hydrologic impacts of drainage improvements designed to increase channel flow
would also be assessed. An environmental mitigation and monitoring plan would
be developed for sub-projects where any significant impacts were identified to
ensure that these impacts are minimized.
The project will be concerned wholly with rehabilitation of existing
irrigation and drainage schemes that are substantially deteriorated, most 20
to 40 years old, and therefore positive impacts would include reducing the
incidence of water-logging and salinity, and improving social and economic
equity. The rehabilitation works would also re-establish the flow of drainage
water in blocked and stagnant drains and so would reduce and improve public
health risks.
With the resumption of the intensive agriculture production a potential
longer-term environmental impact would be an increase in agrochemicals in the
drainage water. However, such an impact is not considered to be substantial
since the use of fertilizers and other chemicals is currently very low, and
their use in the future would be highly economized under liberalized prices
and privatized land. In addition, the increased efficiency in irrigation
water use gained through the project would contribute to a reduction in
agrochemical runoff.
10.     Program Objective Categories
The project is classified under the category of Private Sector Development,
and complements the Bank's program objectives relating to environmental
protection.
11.     Project Benefits
The primary project benefits would be: (a) increased agricultural production
and a corresponding increase in income for an estimated 50,000 farming
families within the project area through the restoration and/or improvement of
irrigation services; and (b) an increase in the efficiency and sustainability
of irrigation and drainage schemes through continued institutional reform.
The proposed project would also encourage farmers to economize the use of
water through the enforcement of full recovery of operation and maintenance
costs from users.
12.     Project Risks
The project would support the Government's commitment to institutional reform
-3 -



aimed to increase the sustainability of the irrigation and drainage sector.
In this context, the following are identified as risks to the project
objectives: (a) failure to develop sufficient capacity of WUAs, (b) delay in
restructuring water enterprise, and (c) delay in the development of
commercially viable agriculture.
13.     Contact Point:
Toru Konishi, ECSSD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-2351
Fax No.:         (202) 614-0698
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
This PID processed the week ending April 9, 1999.
- 4-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



