Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3232 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 19, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3232 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1999, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
Page  2
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" or "Beneficiaries" means FWUAs and/or WUAs which will 
participate in implementing Sub-projects under Part A of the Project;
(b)
"KESH" means the Albanian Electroenergetic Corporation, a company 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Council of Ministers Decision No. 34 dated 
August 12, 1993;
(c)
"Law No. 7846" means that the law on Construction Administration, 
Maintenance and Operation of the Irrigation and Drainage Works of the Borrower dated 
July 21, 1994, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)
"MOAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Borrower; 
(e)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit for the implementation of second 
irrigation and drainage rehabilitation project established under the MOAF’s regulation 
dated April 5, 1999;
(f)
"Operational Guidelines" means the guidelines containing the 
administrative, financial, promotion, appraisal, and supervision criteria to be 
followed by PMU and to be approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"Ramsar Sites" means the sites demarcated by the Borrower under the 
Convention on Wetlands of International Importance, especially as Waterfowl Habitat, 
Ramsar, Iran, February 2, 1971, as amended by the Paris Protocol of March 12, 1982;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(i)
"Stakeholder Association" means a community-based environmental 
management committee comprising representatives from farmers (WUAs), fishermen, 
municipalities, government officials (National Environmental Agency of the Borrower 
and MOAF) and local communities’ representatives;
(j)
"Sub-project" means a specific development project to be carried out by 
the PMU and a Beneficiary utilizing part of the proceeds of the Credit under Part A of 
the Project; 
(k)
"WEs" means the Water Enterprises, the district directorates of water of 
MOAF; and
(l)
"WUA" and "FWUA" means the Water User Associations and Federation of WUAs 
established according to the Law No. 7846.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,700,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Bank of Albania on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2009 and ending January 15, 2039.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2019 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capital gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
Page  4
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the PMU with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
agricultural, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; 
and
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause PMU to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, until the Project completion, employ a 
director of the PMU whose experience and qualifications shall be at all times 
acceptable to the Association and to consult with the Association with respect to the 
replacement of the PMU director prior to any such replacement.
Section 3.05. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not amend or otherwise alter the Operational Guidelines.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, and except 
as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
duly establish the Stakeholder Association and cause PMU and the Committee to develop 
a detailed rehabilitation proposal and environmental assessment acceptable to the 
Association, whenever a Sub-project is located near the Ramsar Sites.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PMU to establish and at all times 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall cause PMU to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing principles standards 
Page  5
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; and
(iii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 30, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a project management report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  6
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
the Operational Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived, so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project; and 
(b) 
Law No. 7846, of the Borrower, shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived, or other legal provisions shall have been enacted, so 
as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that a financial management system has been installed and is operational 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
that the Operational Guidelines have been prepared and approved by MOAF 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
that external auditors, for the purposes of the Project, acceptable to 
the Association have been appointed;
(d)
that the draft Irrigation and Drainage Law has been adopted, 
substantially as agreed with the Association; and
(e)
that an action plan to settle the current arrears of water enterprises to 
KESH has been prepared in a manner acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  7
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ Pandeli Majko 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. D. Wolfensohn 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
           % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under 
  11,860,000
90%
Part A of the Project
(2)
Consultants’
   1,770,000
100%
services, studies
and training 
(3)
Goods
    1,100,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 
85% of local 
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally 
(4)
Incremental 
    1,200,000
90%
operating costs
(5)
Unallocated
    1,770,000
TOTAL
   17,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
Page  8
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means operation and maintenance 
costs which would not have been incurred absent the Project and includes, inter alia, 
costs with respect to: (i) maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used 
under the Project; (ii) salaries paid to PMU staff, other than civil servants’ 
salaries, hired for purposes of the Project; and (iii) office supplies and equipment 
cost less than $200 equivalent per item.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 390,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after February 28, 1999; and (b) 
expenditures under Category (1) for Part A of the Project, unless such expenditures 
have been made in accordance with the procedures and on terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) works 
not exceeding $250,000 equivalent; (ii) goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) 
consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for individual consultants not 
exceeding $25,000 equivalent; and (iv) studies, training and incremental operating 
costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to achieve sustainable use of irrigation 
water for agriculture; and (b) to reduce the risk of floodings. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Infrastructure Works Program
The carrying out of Sub-projects for, inter alia: (a) rehabilitation and 
improvement of irrigation and drainage schemes; (b) rehabilitation of flood control; 
(c) rehabilitation to irrigation reservoirs; and (d) design and supervision works to 
support the implementation of Part A of the Project.
Part B:
Institutional Support
Provision of training and technical advisory services to; inter alia: (a) 
strengthen WUAs and FWUAs; (b) help restructuring water enterprises; and (c) support 
private contractors. 
Part C:
Technical Studies
The carrying out of studies regarding: (a) improved irrigation technologies; and 
(b) improve environmental management associated to irrigation and drainage.
Part D:
Project Administration Management
Improvement of PMU’s institutional capacity in, inter alia, designing its 
information system, auditing and evaluating the impact of its operations, and 
identifying, preparing, appraising, supervising and promoting Sub-projects, through 
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to PMU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  9
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $15,150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $365,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Spare parts of proprietary nature estimated to cost less than $890,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $890,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of direct contract in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  10
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods under Part B of this Schedule, 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and the first contract to 
be procured under Part C.1 of this Schedule in each year, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract awarded under Part C.4 of this Schedule, 
the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
3.
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services 
for institutional support, technical studies, and project administration support 
components shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part B:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Consultants’ services for environmental monitoring estimated to cost less than 
$15,000 equivalent per contract and up to $25,500 equivalent in the aggregate, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for Project account audits estimated to cost less than $60,000 
equivalent in the aggregate shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for improved environmental management, fish-farming support, WUA 
support, and training estimated to cost less than $644,550 equivalent in the aggregate 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Page  11
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any request for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
Overall Project Implementation and Monitoring
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the PMU with adequate staff, funds, facilities and 
other resources required to carry out the Project in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about February 28, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by April 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Part A of the Project
3.
For the implementation of Part A of the Project, unless otherwise agreed with 
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall select the Subprojects in the 
Page  12
following manner:
(a)
prepare and submit to the Association, a feasibility study, social 
analysis and environmental assessment for each Subproject in a new scheme in 
accordance with the Operational Guidelines for the Association’s review and approval; 
(b) 
enter into an agreement between the Borrower and each Beneficiary, under 
the terms and conditions referred to in the Operational Guidelines and which shall 
have been approved by the Association; and
(c)
exercise its rights under such agreements in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of such agreements, or any provisions 
thereof without the Association’s prior approval.
Reporting
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the Project and supervise 
the carrying out by the Beneficiaries of their obligations pursuant to their 
respective agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
not later than November 30 of each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Association for review and comment, work plans and budgets for activities under each 
Part of the Project for the next calendar year, which would include, among other 
things, specific proposals for the use of the Borrower's contribution; and
(c)
by April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31 of each year, prepare and 
furnish to the Association for review a report, of such scope and detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of and the execution of the 
Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
Page  13
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  14
