Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T 7577-ET
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ON A PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 43.5 MILLION
(US $ 60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJ1ECT
March 6,2003
Rural Development Operations 1
Country Department 6
Africa Region



Currency Equivalent
(Exchange Rate effective as of February 14, 2003)
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (Br)
US$1 = Br 8.58
SDR = USD 1.37954
Government Fiscal Year
July 7 - July 6
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DFID                         Department for International Development (UK)
DPPB                          Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Bureau
DPPC                          Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission
EC                           European Commission
EFSR                         Emergency Food Security Reserve
EGS                           Employment Generation Schemes
ESRDF                        Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund
EU                            European Union
FFW                           Food -For-Work programs/projects
GAM                          Global Acute Malnutrition
GFRDE                        Government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
MoA                          Ministry of Agriculture
MoRD                          Ministry of Rural Development
NDPPF                        National Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Fund
NGO                          Non-Governunental-Organisation
NPDPM                        National Policy for Disaster Prevention and Management
OCHA                         Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
PRSP                         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SDPRP                        Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program
SNNPR                        Southern Nations, Nationalities & People's Region
TAPS                         Transitory Asset Protection System
UNDP                         United Nations Development Program
UN/EUE                       United Nations Emergency Unit for Ethiopia
UNHCR                        United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF                       United Nations Children Fund
USAID                        United States Aid for International Development
WFP                          World Food Program
Vice President:               Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:             Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:               Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Task Team Leader:             James Coates



The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Emergency Drought Recovery Project
Grant Summary
Recipient:             Government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Implementation Agencies: Ministry of Rural Development, Food Security Department through
Regional and Woreda Governments.
Amount and Term:       IDA Grant of SDR 43.5 million (US$ 60 million equivalent)
Objectives and Description: To enable Government to help affected families survive the emergency,
retain productive assets, and develop sustainable livelihoods, and to
contribute to the stabilization of the macroeconomy. The project will: (i)
defend critical human development expenditure by Government during the
next year from the pressures caused by the current crisis; (ii) maintain the
availability of critical economic inputs (particularly those needed in rural
areas) and support the economic recovery process; (iii) rehabilitate and
create communal assets using community labour within the affected
population, and (iv) provide income supplements, and protect private
assets for the affected population. The main indicator of project impact
would be reduced levels of forced out-migration of affected families from
their homes.
Benefits:              (i) Food aid received from bilateral donors will be used more effectively to
assist the families affected by the drought, due to the existence of timely
and complementary cash inputs provided by the Bank, facilitating the
return to 'normal' sustainable livelihoods; (ii) the macro-economy will
remain stable, and Government will not have to divert resources from its
normal, long run efforts to create sustainable long term I ivelihoods for the
rural poor; and (iii) mechanisms will be tested which may eventually
evolve into the tools for providing safety net support to vulnerable -
Ethiopians under the SDPRP and will supplant ad hoc responses to crisis.
Risks:                 (i) Management capacity at woreda level and below is the key constraint to
reaching communities as planned. The project will use existing, simple,
systems to reach out to communities and improve the impact of programs;
and (ii) the dependence of rural communities in food insecure areas on
food aid may be deepened. To minimize this risk, the project seeks to use
the food aid more effectively to provide income, and create infrastructure,
which will support regeneration of productive assets and strengthening of
long term livelihoods.
Project Appraisal Document:  In accordance with OP 8.50 there is a Technical Annex and no PAD
Disbursement:          The grant is expected to be disbursed by December 31, 2006.
Project ID No:         P081773






The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Emergency Drought Recovery Project
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
GRANT SUMMARY ..................................................
I. THE DROUGHT OF 2002 AND 2003 .................................................1
Background, circumstances of the drought and recent developments ................................................1 I
Macroeconomic Impact .................................................4
II. THE GOVERNMENT RESPONSE .................................................5
The Framework for Addressing Vulnerability .................................................5
The Joint Government-UN Appeal for Emergency Assistance .................................................8
III. THE BANK RESPONSE .................................................                       12
The Country Assistance Strategy and Vulnerability ................................................. 12
Prior Bank Emergency Response and Lessons Learned           ............................................. 13
Alternative Response Mechanisms Considered .................................................   14
IV. THE EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT ................................................    15
Project Objectives ................................................ .                          15
Project Rationale ................................................                             15
Project Description ................................................                           16
Project Financing ................................................. 17
Implementation, Monitoring and Learning Arrangements ................................................  18
Financial Management, Procurement and Disbursement ................................................  19
Main Grant Conditions ................................................                         20
Project Sustainability ................................................                        20
Environmental and Social Aspects ................................................              20
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................................                 21
Schedule A     Positive List of Imports
Schedule B     Timetable of Key Processing Events
Schedule C     Summary of Financial Management, Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Schedule D     Ethiopia at a glance
Schedule E     Status of Bank Group Operations and Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed
Portfolio
Schedule F     Project Design Summary (Logical Framework)
Schedule G     Workfare Program Design
Schedule H     Nutrition and Supplemental Feeding
Schedule I     Detailed Project Description
Schedule J     List of Woredas to be Included in the Project
Map 32286      Drought-Affected Areas in 2002/03
iv






I. THE DROUGHT OF 2002 AND 2003
Background, circumstances of the drought and recent developments
1.    On December 7, 2002, the Prime Minister launched the Joint UN - Government Appeal to the
international community for assistance in averting a humanitarian crisis brought on by a gradually
deepening drought in the traditionally vulnerable areas of Ethiopia. The call went out following the
recommendations of a joint Government/Donor mission which spent the month of November assessing
the situation. The assessment confirmed concerns regarding the severe food insecurity suffered by an
already large group of 11.3 million persons due to the effect of climatic irregularities during 2002 on
the main agricultural harvests in the Center, Center-North and Center-East of the country. An
additional 3 million people could also face extreme food insecurity if the short rains, due in February
2003, fail..
2.     The crisis has been building since the short (belg) rains of February and March 2002 failed in
the North and Center of the country. This failure reduced cropped areas in drought prone parts of the
country, and it made it difficult for farmers to prepare adequately for the main season, as draught
animals were undernourished and soils too hard for the ploughs and tools available to smallholders.
The situation was made worse by a prolonged dry spell of up to six weeks between the short rains and
the main (meher) season, which affected 55 zones and special woredas (about 80 % of the country).
This delay in the start of the main season had the following effects': (i) it disturbed land preparation
routines; (ii) it delayed sowing dates; (iii) it reduced the sowing of heavier yielding, maize and sorghum
crops in favor of short cycle crops such as teff, and pulses, normally planted later in the season; and (iv)
it deterred fanners from investing in (higher risk) inputs to raise yields, such as fertilizer and improved
seed. As a result, fertilizer use dropped 17 percent from the previous year, and use of improved seed
dropped by 70 percent. Fertilizer use was further constrained by the higher than normal default on prior
season loans -- where a bumper crop kept crop prices low and constrained loan repayment.
3.     A subset of 31 zones and special woredas (about 44 percent of the country and some of the
traditionally food surplus woredas) suffered from unevenly distributed and unseasonably light rains.
This resulted in (i) the need to replant, reducing crop density; and (ii) reduced seed set and grain fill.
These effects reduced grain yields by 20-30 percent in areas which are usually surplus, and which show
up as planted and producing (registering as green on the satellite imagery).
4.     Should the moisture irregularities and shortages continue during the next short (belg) season in
February and March of 2003, an additional 3 million persons, currently on the margin of personal food
self- sufficiency, will need immediate humanitarian attention.
The Affected Areas and Populations
5.     The areas most affected by the drought are Afar region, northern Somali region, eastern
Oromiya region, the lowlands along the Rift valley in the Arsi and East Shewa lowlands, stretching
south into Wolayita and the Sidamo lowlands, and further south to Arba Minch. Eastern and Southern
Tigray and Eastern Amhara are also badly affected (see Map). Estimates of the affected population by
region are provided in the Map at the end of this report. The effects are most marked in the livestock
areas, where the lack of moisture has been most severe. According to the nutrilional surveys, the
'From the FAO/WFP Crop and Food Supply Assessment Mission to Ethiopia - 30 December - 2002 -- p. 2.
I



coping possibilities for the population in these areas have been exhausted. Malnutrition and wastage
rates are high. Survival is the issue. Nutritional surveys in some of the affected areas show that
malnutrition is already in excess of a Global Acute Malnutrition (GAM) rate of 10 percent -- a critical
level which usually triggers an emergency relief response. According to WHO/UNICEF standards, a
GAM rate of above 10 percent is considered serious and above 20 percent as of crisis proportions.
6.     The food security situation of pastoralists in northeastern parts of the country has
exhibited particularly rapid deterioration. A nutrition survey conducted in Afar Region Zone 1
revealed a GAM rate of 32 percent in July 2002. In August 2002 another survey conducted in
Zone 3 of Afar Region showed a GAM score of 18 percent. A joint Government/NGO survey in
the lowlands of East and West Hararghe in September 2002 estimated a GAM rate of 15 percent.
Similarly, Fik Zone of Somali Region (bordering lowland East Hararghe) demonstrated a GAM
rate of 21 percent. Since then, conditions have slightly improved in some areas due to food aid
distribution between August and November.
7.     Other areas where malnutrition has reached unacceptable levels include the northeastern
lowland escarpment bordering Afar Region and the lowlands of the Rift Valley. In East Tigray,
nutrition surveys in September 2002 showed an 11 percent GAM. This is twice as high as 2001 (6
percent) and 2000 (5 percent) levels, and demonstrates a situation which has been worsening since
early September. East in the lowland gorges of North Gonder, malnutrition rates have reached 18
percent GAM. Further south in South Wello (Amhara Region), a survey conducted in August 2002
showed GAM rates of 18 percent and 17 percent, respectively and 13 percent GAM rate in south
of South Wello in Oromiya Zone.
8.     The nutritional status in SNNPR was in the acceptable range during the first half of 2002
with values ranging from a GAM rate of 2 percent to 8 percent. However, following poor Belg
production, a further survey in September showed that the situation was already deteriorating with
an estimated 10 percent GAM in Badawacho and Soro districts (Hadiya Zone).
9.     The ultimate response to hardship is migration in search of an improved livelihood. A
UN/EUE report of November 2002 indicated that some 35,000 people migrated from drought
affected areas in East and West Hararghe and Arssi, where food distribution had been delayed, to
the highland, high potential Bale zone in search of new cultivable areas and moisture.
Production Estimates and Food Requirements
10.   Grain production has been affected by the factors noted above. Cereal and pulse production
for the crop year 2002/03 has been forecast at 9.27 million tons (which includes a normal short season
harvest of 350,000 tons in early calendar 2003). This harvest level is about 25 percent below last
year's harvest, and 21 percent below the five year average. The overall area planted to grains was
about 11.3 million ha, about the same levels as previous years. However, there was a shift out of long-
cycle grains such as maize, sorghum and finger millet, and into shorter cycle crops such as teff and
pulses -- due to the fears of a short season set off by the late arrival of the main season rains. The
factors affecting yields have been noted above. These effects are more marked in the drought prone
areas of the Center and Center-North and Center-East of the country (see Maps).
11.   Coffee production in 2002/03, which contributes over 70% to total exports, is expected to be
lower than the previous year, due the reduced rains at and after flowering, and biennial production
patterns. Incentives for treatment and care of coffee have deteriorated over the past few years, with the
drop in world coffee prices, which will also affect yields. The drop in coffee production will mean a
reduction in cash available at the household level which could be critical for families in the coffee
2



growing areas affected by drought, in West Hararghe and Harari. Chat production, does not seem to
have been affected. Overall, families in affected areas have reduced cash incomes with which to cope
with the drought.
Livestock
12.    The Ethiopian smallholder production systems rely heavily on a livestock as a source of
food, cash and draught power. In highland farms, which represent most of the more densely
inhabited parts of the country, production systems rely on both crops and livestock. In the lowland
areas, there is an almost complete reliance on animal based systems. These pastoralist systems are
located in the extensive grazing areas in the Eastern, Western and Southern Lowlands of the
country. The boundary between mixed farming systems, and livestock based systems is shown in
Map 1.
13.    The pastoralist areas in the lowland areas of the North, the Center-North and Center- East
and have been the hardest hit by the current drought. In the third and fourth quarters of 2002,
reported losses of livestock in the pastoralist areas of Afar, in north Somali, and other lowland
areas (in Amhara, Oromiya and SNNPR) prompted interventions from the Government, NGOs
and international agencies. The assistance was designed partly to boost disease resistance of
livestock, through provision of vaccines and drugs and partly to ameliorate water and forage
shortages through negotiated access to better resources. At the same time, food aid programs for
the affected communities were reinforced, supplementing programs established two years before
when four consecutive years of BeIg rain failure had dramatically reduced livestock numbers and
incomes.
Agricultural Markets and Prices
14.    The domestic grain markets in Ethiopia function through a network of small, traders who
buy surpluses from small farmers and sell in the nearby markets at relatively small margins. These
markets function in relative isolation. Margins between markets in grain surplus areas and those
in deficit areas are high -- above the level one would expect in other countries in Africa. Small
grain producers as well as small traders are not well informed about grain availability and prices.
Larger grain movements from surplus to deficit areas are constrained by high transport costs due
to poor road infrastructure, weak market information systems, costly bag-based grain logistical
management, imperfect grading and standards, and a quasi monopoly in the transportation sector.
15.    Grain prices in surplus producing regions have been severely depressed for almost two
years, through mid-2002. These depressed prices were a function of higher than average harvests
in two consecutive years in the absence of effective price stabilization measures at the national
level. In response, some of the donor agencies and Government purchased part of the grain for
food assistance from the local markets instead of importing it. In 2001 and 2002 about 160 000
tons of grain each year were locally purchased by international agencies and distributed as food
aid.
16.    The grain market prices began to increase sharply during the latter half of 2002 when it
became apparent that cereal production would be substantially lower for both Belg and Meher
crops. Between October 2001 and October 2002, the nominal average price of maize increased by
85 percent, wheat 50 percent, barley 32 percent, and sorghum 25 percent. Figure 1 shows the
average monthly price for teff, wheat and maize in the Addis Ababa market. The price movement
trends observed in this market is similar to other markets in Bahr Dar, Mekele, Hossana,
DireDawa, and Nazrethe. Certain segments of the population, includirg urban households with
3



fixed incomes, nomadic populations and about 20 percent of the rural population who purchase
grain from the market will be negatively affected by the increased grain prices.
Figure 1. Monthly Average Prices of Main Cereals, Addis Ababa,
October 2001-October 2002
2W-
I9               9
-+Tef +W6inT -^--NWze
17.    Up to 50 percent declines in livestock prices were reported in all markets except in the
south-west zones, and more generally, for high-quality butchers' stock. The fall in prices reflects
increased market presentations and few buyers in most areas. In many rural markets it seems that
more arrivals are being taken back home by the would-be sellers than are currently being sold at
the already reduced prices. Prices are set to decline even further. What is clear is that if the Belg
rains of early calendar 2003 are not forthcoming the situation will deteriorate rapidly and more
losses are likely to occur.
Macroeconomic Impact
18.    As a result of the assessments and events described above, Government has revised the
forecasts for economic performance contained in the recently issued SDPRP2 , as noted in the table
below:
2Ethiopia's Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program - issued to the Board on August 27, 2002.
4



Table 1 Revisions in Macroeconomic Forecasts for 2002/03 due to Impact of Droughe
Item                    SDPRP            Including Drought      Difference
Impact           _
Growth in GDP at factor         6.0 %                  3.0             50 % lower
cost (at constant prices)
Change in consumer prices        4.5 %                 5.9 %            31 % higher
Trade deficit            US$ 1,252 m          US$ 1,487 m         19 % increase
Revenue                21.8 % GDP            21.9 % GDP             Same
Expenditure              34.9 % GDP           42.9 % GDP           23 % higher
GDP at market prices       US$ 6.4 billion       US$ 6.2 billion       3% lower
19.    As can be noted above, the GDP growth rate is halved, and the projected inflation rate
rises by a third. Importantly, there is a sharp negative effect on the trade balance and on the
budget, due to the sharp increase in spending, in part on imports, which is foreseen as the
Government takes measures to respond to the drought. The impact on crop production and
livestock has been noted above. Whereas a large amount of assistance has been pledged in
support to Ethiopia, most of it is in the form of food aid or materials, with few donors able to
provide large amounts of money at short notice, to be used in financing the foreign exchange
needs of the response.
I. THE GOVERNMENT RESPONSE
The Framework for Addressing Vulnerability
Vulnerability to Climate Shock in Ethiopia
20.    The SDPRP indicates that 45 percent of the population lives on consumption levels that are
below the poverty line. It is important to note however, that there are between 3 and 6 million people in
Ethiopia who suffer from chronic food insecurity, and are at risk of starvation every year. The number
of people who are chronically food insecure appears to be increasing. It is likely that most of these
people live in the "drought prone" woredas (districts) identified by the Government. However,
according to the Poverty Profile (2000), substantial numbers of chronically food insecure households do
live even in the food secure woredas, requiring a nation-wide approach to the chronic food insecurity
problem in the medium term. Studies indicate that vulnerability to clinmatic shock is cumulative.
Recovery from any given event is slow, and often not complete, as the family may have had to sell
animals and other assets in order to survive -- assets which are hard to r ecuperate in light of the very
low consumption and savings levels such families face even in good years. A recent study of
destitution in the three regions of North Wello, South Wello and Wag H-amra defined destitution as "a
state of extreme poverty that results from the pursuit of 'unsustainable livelihoods', meaning that a
series of livelihood shocks and/or negative trends or processes erodes the asset base of already poor and
vulnerable households until they are no longer able to meet their minimum subsistence needs. They
lack access to the key productive assets needed to escape from poverty, and they be-come dependent on
public and/or private transfers."4
3 As reported in the paper on "Partnership for Accelerated and Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction"
presented to the Consultative Group in December, 2002.
"Destitution in the Northeastern Highlands (Amhara Region)" - Interim Report - November 2002; by Stephen
Devereux, Kay Sharp and Yared Amare for IDS, Sussex, UK and Save the Children-UK, E,thiopia; page 9.
5



21.    A drought such as the one underway will require assistance to prevent precipitous shortfalls in
the food consumption of the chronically food insecure households in the affected woredas. In addition,
it will also drive the marginally poor families (who would otherwise have improved their position in a
normal year) to consume their assets in order to maintain current consumption levels, thus eroding their
already limited ability to cope with future weather shocks. Therefore, the appropriate government
response to the current crisis should not only seek to redress the chronic food insecurity of extremely
poor households in the food insecure woredas, but also reach out to the other marginal poor families
elsewhere in the country so as to retain their assets and sustain livelihoods.
The Policy Framework
22.    Devastating recurrent droughts have been and will be the major development challenges of
Ethiopia. Development strategies and policies of the country are geared towards alleviating the socio-
economic impact of drought, ensuring food security and creating sustainable livelihoods for the poor.
The government has been taking a number of basic measures to effectively address the problems of
poverty and famine in the medium and long-term through multi-faceted and coordinated efforts. In this
regard the basic framework is provided by Ethiopia's poverty reduction strategy paper, the Sustainable
Development and Poverty Reduction Program (SDPRP), which includes the Agricultural Development
Led Industrialization (ADLI) strategy, the National Policy on Disaster Prevention and Management
(NPDPM) and the National Food Security Strategy.
23.    The SDPRP was issued in July 2002 and indicates that about 45 percent of the population falls
below the poverty line. The program calls for growth rates of at least 7 percent per annum over the next
5 years to reduce poverty rate by 10 percent. The SDPRP is built on four pillars: (i) Agricultural
Development-led Industrialization (ADLI) and food security which recognizes firstly that market
based agriculture is the engine of growth supplying domestic and international markets. It notes
secondly that agriculture will require increasing technical progress, output diversification, and greater
market interaction. Thirdly, industry and services need to grow in conjunction with the expansion of
agriculture. Finally, there is a need for the development of a comprehensive food security and safety
net strategy. (ii) Governance, Decentralization, and Empowerment through increased participation
and consultation of the public in policy-making by decentralizing decision making authority; and
empowering woredas (districts) as the center of socio-economic development; (iii) Reform of the
Justice System and the Civil Service and (iv) Capacity Building for the public and private sector,
including farmers, to support ADLI, reform of the judiciary and civil service, and decentralization and
empowerment.
24.    The Policy on Disaster Prevention and Management (PDPM) was issued in 1993 as part of
the government's efforts to address the root causes of the prevailing vulnerabilities to drought and
famine. PDPM discourages free hand-outs of relief supplies to able bodied people. The underlying
principles and objectives of PDPM include: (i) no human life shall perish for want of food in time of
disaster, (ii) the quality of life in the affected areas shall be protected from deterioration on account of
disaster and the adverse impact is mitigated on a timely manner, (iii) the assets and economic fabric of
the affected areas shall be preserved and best use of the natural resources of the areas shall be promoted
to enable speedy post disaster recovery, and (iv) provision of relief shall not hurt human dignity,
reinforce the capabilities of the affected areas and contribute to growth and development. In addition to
tackling the issue of dependency for relief assistance, this policy seeks to integrate relief resources with
development initiatives. A general guideline to this effect was issued in 1995 (which precedes
decentralization).
6



25.    Under PDPM the preconditions for a disaster declaration are defined, and guidance is provided
on the declaration of disasters, and on how to manage the response. In addition, under the policy, an
early warning system and a relief response logistical system is put in place to respond to a crisis. Under
its mechanisms for responding to crisis, the PDPM lays emphasis on measures such as Employment
Generation Schemes (EGS) which are to be planned in advance, to provide employment to able-bodied
disaster victims. This approach seeks to generate effective resource utilization and reduce relief
dependence by (a) providing a means of income (in cash or in kind) to the most affected people in
disaster-affected areas, (b) building up the assets of affected areas in order to improve their resilience to
disaster, (c) creating conditions for eliminating the root causes of disasters and build up the
infrastructure for future development, and (d) reinforcing work ethics of the affected population.
Gratuitous Relief is provided to affected persons such as the aged, the very young, pregnant and
lactating women, who cannot participate in EGS activities due to physical limitations. It is restricted to
rural areas. There is no relief operation by DPPC for urban areas. In addition the P'DPM provides for
the management of a National Early Warning System, relief related warehousing services, the
establishment of a National Food Security Reserve, a National Disaster Prevention and Preparedness
Fund, a transport fleet for coverage where commercial fleets refuse to go, and measures for donor
coordination.
26.   In the context of the ongoing decentralization, improving the management and implementation
capacity at all levels will be critical. For one thing, the Government has to step up its effort to
strengthen implementation capacity at all levels, including especially the mechanisms of financing
flows and implementation modalities. For another, woreda-level authorities need to transmit signals to
the federal government on the evolving situation in the woredas in crisis situations such as the current
drought. Procedures need to be in place for monitoring the agreed roles and responsibilities so as to
quickly detect policy/implementation failures and put in place remedial measures, thus improving
accountability at all levels
Assisting the Chronically Food Insecure.
27.    As noted previously, calendar 2002 started with the need to care for an estimated 4.6 million
people, in spite of the excellent harvest in most parts of the country. As has been the procedure to date,
these needs were supplied under a relief program, and Government, U N agencies and donors continued
to: (i) provide food aid to severely affected households, (ii) distribute seeds and other agricultural
inputs, (iii) construct, rehabilitate and sink boreholes in drought affected areas through donor assisted
schemes, and (iv) provide nutritional supplementary foods and health care services. In addition to
these relief efforts, new programs were initiated designed to respond to the long term needs of these
populations, and create new sustainable livelihoods, rebuild their asset base, and generate the ability to
engage in sustainable livelihoods over the long term. The USAID funded Relief to Development
program in selected woredas in Amhara region is one such effort. A World Bank funded Food Security
Project (P050383, Credit 36460), targeting 12 drought prone food insecure woredas (in its first year)
and 60 woredas at full development, has also been initiated. Under this project funding would be
provided to communities in food insecure woredas in 4 highland regions to develop sustainable,
diversified livelihoods; local Government would be strengthened and initiatives would be taken to
improve food market efficiency, A Pastoral Communities Development Project (P 075915) is under
preparation with support from the World Bank, which would focus poverty reduction in pastoral
communities in lowland regions. In addition, most of the Birr 100 million allocation by the Federal
Government in FY 2002 to support the Food Security Program is being used to provide a long term
solution to drought related problems through investments in water harvesting structures, small scale
irrigation works and other infrastructure.
7



Assisting the Acutely Food Insecure.
28.    Triggered by the delayed onset of the meher rains the Government responded quickly by
purchasing 45,000 mt of cereals and 300 mt of famix from the local market. It also provided Birr 13.11
million to affected Regions for the purchase of seeds to initiate replanting of early maturing crops. In
addition, the Government supplied Birr 3 million worth of veterinary drugs, Birr 2.8 million worth of
21 medical kits, and made available four water tankers. As the situation worsened, the Governrent
issued a special alert in July 2002 that requested additional relief food, raising the January 2002
estimate by about 37 percent. Once the extent of the crisis became clear in early December, the issue
has been given a wider media coverage and high level government officials, including the Prime
Minister and his Cabinet, have visited the most affected areas in Eastern part of the country. In
response to the seriousness of the crisis, various sectors of civil society (traders, students, teachers,
religious sects, the military, civil servants) have contributed generously to assist the drought victims.
29.    The larger group of people who require international assistance under the current appeal will
include those who are chronically food insecure, many of whom are destitute, as well as another group
who live in areas vulnerable to drought climatic shock, and have slipped into food in security this year,
due to the climatic events described previously. The food aid requirement for calendar 2002 was
estimated at about 557,000 tons in January 2002 -- a level similar to that requested, and used, in the
previous year. By the end of calendar 2002 the estimate of needs had risen to some 897,000 tons (see
Table ). During the year, some 580,000 tons of food, well above the January estimate of needs, had
been received and distributed.
The Joint Government-UN Appeal for Emergency Assistance
30.    As noted previously, on December 7, 2002, the Prime Minister launched the Joint UN -
Government Appeal to the international community for assistance in averting a humanitarian crisis
brought on by a gradually deepening drought in the traditionally vulnerable areas of Ethiopia.
Based on the assessment of the impact of the reductions in crop and livestock production noted
above, the Government and UN have provided the following assessment of the affected population
currently needing relief.
Table 2: 2003 Affected population and food requirements by region
Region       Population in   Close        Total     Cereals    Blended    Oil    Total (MT)
Need      Monitoring5   affected     (MT)       Food     (MT)
population              (MT) 
Afar                   786,200      307,200    1,093,400   117,930    12,383     413      130,726
Amhara*               3,296,200     662,300   3,958,500    342,100    31,056    1,036    374,192
Benshangul-Gumuz            -            -           -          0         0        0           0
Dire Dawa               73,500       25,000     98,500      11,025     1,158      39      12,222
Gambella                58,400       11,200      69,600      7,235      760       22       8,017
Harari                  20,000       18,000      38,000      2,003      210        7       2,220
Oromiya               3,110,900    1,039,200  4,150,100    367,933    38,151    1,269    407,353
SNNP                  1,114,700     471,800   1,586,500    105,722    10,670     356      116,748
Somali                1,028,900     118,200   1,147,100    118,313     6,002     200      124,515
Tigray                1,831,600     300,300   2,131,900    240,348    24,001     800     265,149
Sub-Total            11,320,400    2,953,200  14,273,600
Total (MT)                                               1,312,609   124,391   4,142   1,441,142
5 This includes all people that are vulnerable if the situation further deteriorates in the coming months.
8



31.    A strong caveat is made regarding the quality of the early (belg) rains in February of 2003. If
these fail, then the population needing relief will increase by over 30 percent. It should also be noted
that the beneficiary number for Sekota Woreda in Wag Hamra and Guba Lafto woreda in North Wello
Zones of Amhara region is not included in the above estimate. The total number of population needing
food assistance in these woredas is estimated to be 78,800 and 41,100, and their food requirement as of
January 2003 is 10,582 Mt And 4,466 Mt respectively. The USAID R21) program will cover these
woredas.
FoodAid
32.    As noted above, domestic production in 2002/03 is estimated at about 9.3 million tons.
Consumption requirements are in the order of 10.4 million tons6, when added to non-food needs of 1.6
million tons to cover seeds losses take, total requirements for the crop year to some 12 million tons.
This will have to be covered by a drawdown of stocks (estimated at 0.5 million tons at the start of the
season), commercial food imports and current pledges, and new pledges for food aid of the order of
1.44 million tons. Should the pledges be insufficient, the Government will be forced to finance
importation of food for relief. A rough food balance chart is provided below.
Table 3 Food Balance for Crop Season 2002-20,03 (mid year)7
(in millions of metric tons)
TOTALS
Production Forecast                                   9.3
Meher         8.9
Belg        0.4      _
Utilization                                          12.1
Food        10.4
Non-Food         1.6
Balance                                               2.8
Stock Draw Down         0.4
Commercial Imports       0.3
Existing Pledges      0.1
Additional resources needed      2.0
33.    The net additional requirement is well above any of the amounts delivered over the past seven
years. Indeed, the year when needs ran at almost the current levels was the year 2000. Then, the
estimated requirement at midyear (July) stood at 1.3 million tons, against actual deliveries of almost 1
million tons by year end.
6 Based on a population of 69.1 million to mid 2003, and consumption percapita of 150 kg of grain per annum.
7 Includes an estimate of a reasonably good short (beIg) season in February 2003.
9



Table 4. Cereals Food Aid Distribution 1995 - 2002
Year         Food Aid Delivered and   Population Requiring Food
Distributed (metric tons)    Assistance (millions)
1995                347,400                     4.0
1996                219,000                     2.7
1997                306,000                     3.4
1998                294,900                     5.3
1999                391,600                     6.6
2000                999,135                     10.2
2001                540,000                      6.2
2002                580,000                      6.3
Average              459,700                      5.6
Commitments            1,440,000                    11.3
needed for 2003
34.    As has been the case in the past, the donors have responded generously to the appeal, and have
done their best to increase the food aid delivered in response to the gradually increasing estimates of
requirements. A Special Alert in July raised the estimate of needs some 37% over the January estimate,
and in October, the estimate of need was raised yet again. As noted above, in spite of the lead times
needed to respond to the significant volumes required by Ethiopia, the actual deliveries of food aid were
actually above the January needs estimate. Normally actual deliveries are 25 percent below the initial
needs estimate.
Non-food emergency assistance
35.    Non-food assistance provides an essential complement to interventions in food aid, health and
nutrition, and begins to set the stage for recovery from the shock, by assisting in such areas as water
supply, provision of agricultural inputs, early warning and capacity building. In August, a "Situation
Update and Joint Flash Appeal" was issued by the Government and the UN, which requested a further
US $12 million to cover items such as those mentioned above, as well as shelter, HIV/AIDS awareness
and co-ordination costs. Government contributions included US $1.6 million for emergency seeds and
US $340,000 for veterinary drugs. The donor response has been encouraging and non-food relief
assistance of US $22.5 million has been pledged. The areas of intervention include water and sanitation
(US $6 million), health and nutrition (US $10 million), agriculture and livestock (US $3.7 million) and
capacity building (US $2.8 million). In addition, there are unspecified contributions in the range of US
$9.13 million that are for a variety of interrelated and crosscutting activities that cannot be attributed to
specific sectors.
36.   In addition to the need for food, the appeal asks for assistance with a range of non-food items
noted below, totaling US$ 76.2 million.
10



Table 5: Non Food Emergency Assistance Needs
Water Assistance          Health & Nutrition Assistance          Agricultural Assistance            Capacity Building
Requirements (USD)              Requirements (USD)                 Requirements (USD)                Requirements (USD)
Water tankering  1,352,843  Emergency health kits   7,646,503   Seed supply            15,213,717  Nutrit. Surveillance  227,130
Water scheme     1,369,393  Drug distribution,       382,052   Irrigation schemes        303,000   Communication and    870,600
maintenance &               monitoring &                                                           logistics equipments
rehabilitation              supervision
Capacity building  413,836  Meningitis vaccine      1,446,980  Animal health &          3,092,231  'rraining on food aid  648,224
&community                                                     veterinary drugs                    targeting
mobilization
New water        8,329,661  Training of health        813,649   Animal feed            12,479,106   Strengthen DPPC      944,800
schemes                     workers                                                                emergency
development                                                                                        information centre
Sanitation &     1,220,450  Environmental           1,688,152  Breeding stock survival    301,000  Warehouses & relief  2,000,000
hygiene education           sanitation & hygiene                measures & supply of               outlets
draft animals
-   Supplementary &      Donations in
therapeutic food             kind
Malaria prevention &    1,400,000
control
Monitoring & technical  1,260,000
& project support
Other sectors including  4,840,625
HIV/AIDS, education,
gender, child protection,
shelter, mine education
Measles & Vitamin A     6,418,352
Campaigns & cold
chains
Total (USD)    12,686,183   Total (USD)            25,896,313   Total (USD)     32,927,937          Total (USD)        4,690,754
37.       The overall shock to the economy (the cost of responding to the crisis and generating an
economic recovery) is in the order of US$ 330 million, about 5 percent of GDP and about 80 percent of
exports. Of this, US$ 76 million dollars represents the impact on non-food requirements, and some US
$ 250 million represents the value of the additional I million tons of food needed to respond to the
current crisis (over and above normal food aid receipts of 460,000 tons received in the average year --
see table above).
The Government's Request to the Bankfor an Emergency Drought Recovery Program
38.       The Government has requested the Bank for support in addressing the social and economic
problems caused by the drought. The request is set forth in a document called the Emergency Drought
,Recovery Program of January 2003. This program requests a one traniche disbursement of about US$
75 million to stabilize macroeconomic expectations and indicators. The counterpart resources
generated from the operation would then be used to carry out a series of employment creation, and
infrastructure development projects at the village level. Funding would be made available to the
woredas via the decentralized fiscal woreda grant system. Coordination of the program would be
located in the offices of the Food Security Department of the Ministry of Rural Development.
I1



III. THE BANK RESPONSE
The Country Assistance Strategy and Vulnerability
39.    The Bank's CAS for Ethiopia seeks to support the Government's SDPRP under a program with
three pillars:
1.     Enhance pro-poor growth, both urban and rural, through:
Accelerating rural growth by supporting increased rural productivity (effective
technological transfers and skills, the marketization of agriculture, and the provision
of more effective infrastructure and infrastructure services in transport, energy and
water);
*       Major stress on urban growth by improving the investment climate, generating off-
farm employment as well as to build labor-augmenting modern sectors of the
economy;
*       Support to the development of financial markets (commercial banks, rural finance,
long term and equity finance);
*       Rapid export growth through production of high value agricultural products and
increased support to export oriented manufacturing sectors; and
*       A stable macro-framework and sound regulatory reforms.
2.     Enhance human development outcomes by improving governance:
*       Supporting the reform of the public sector systems through civil service reform
(including financial management and justice system reforms) and capacity building
that also effectively mainstream gender considerations;
*       Deepening and strengthening decentralization to shift decision making closer to the
grass roots;
*       Empowering civil society to enhance the responsiveness and accountability of the
public sector.
*       Improving delivery of education services in terms of coverage, quality and equity;
*       Expand coverage and quality of all health services, especially preventive health care,
including nutrition and WV/AIDS prevention;
*       Improve access to clean water supply and sanitation.
3. Reduce vulnerability by:
*       Reforming food aid delivery and other safety net programs to very poor households
in ways that enable them to sustain human development and other assets through the
system of inter-governmental fiscal transfers, better monitoring, surveillance and
early warning, as well as increased cost-effectiveness of safety net programs;
*       Assisting Ethiopia better manage the vulnerability of the economy to terms of trade
shocks through crop diversification and better functioning commodity and inputs
markets;
*       Assisting the vulnerable to accumulate assets through expanded access to savings
services and other simple financial instruments;
12



*       Mitigating and reducing risks in vulnerable areas by improving agricultural
productivity, adapting better water management practices including irrigation, and
encouraging off-farm activities and labor mobility;
*       Enhancing programs to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS and reduce the impact of
AIDS-related morbidity and mortality;
*       Increased attention to environmental issues, such as land and natural resource
degradation, and;
*       Improving the provision of short to medium term interventions that address the
immediate concerns of vulnerable groups such as poor women (e.g expansion of
literacy/numeracy programs, safety nets including incorne-generating programs).
40.    Action to reduce vulnerability, and provide long term solutions to the creation of sustainable
employment in rural areas, particularly those that are most vulnerable to climatic shock, is strongly
supported by the CAS. This project rests firmly on a key CAS pillar -- vulnerability reduction -- and
will contribute to stabilization of the macroeconomy, the defence of human development expenditure,
and direct action in the communities of families affected by the drought, with measures which seek to
re-establish sustainable livelihoods and prevent forced migration.
Prior Bank Emergency Response and Lessons Learned
41.    Lessons learned from previous emergency operations have been taken into account in the
design of the project, and the project preparation/appraisal has benefited from the advice of teams
involved in responding to similar emergencies in other countries.
42.    The Bank has responded with dedicated operations to the drought of 1974 and the drought of
1984. The first of these two operations, for US$ 10 million (Credit 485-ET) went to the Board in June
1974. It was directed towards the regions of Tigray and Wollo, and included a range of components
designed to improve rural infrastructure, to enable affected families to recover from the emergency.
Assistance for drought management and coordination was also provided. The OED ]'roject
Performance Audit Report noted that while the infrastructure components were carried out reasonably
effectively, in spite of high staff turnover, civil strife and conflict with Somalia, the project failed to
reach the expected outcomes, and to provide recommendations on how drought prone regions should be
developed. The Sirinka Pilot Settlement Project, funded under the project, was to have provided a basis
for this policy, but lessons learned had not been incorporated into Government policy as of 1985.
43.    The second operation, the Drought Recovery Program for US$ 30 million was approved by the
Board in April 1985. The project funded importation of fertilizer and other agricultural inputs (about
half the Bank resources), transport equipment (a third of Bank resources) and water supply
rehabilitation (the remainder). Objectives were to support economic recovery for the 6-10 million
people affected by drought in Tigray, Wello, Eritrea, Gonder and Sidamo, while minimizing the
negative effects on the ongoing development program and the macro-economy. Coordination was out
of a Technical Support Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. Implementation was satisfactory, although
the OED audit notes that "...even under emergency conditions, project linanced inputs should not be
distributed free of charge... the projects economic benefits would be enhanced if some communal
works... were to be requested from the beneficiaries...".
44.   Key lessons drawn from a Bankwide review of emergency operations follow:
Including measures to enhance government's capacity to monitor food security and detect
impending harvest shortfalls, plan effectively to mitigate their impact, and efficiently manage
actions for recovery is very important. The project will assess whether there is need to
strengthen the government's early warning system and to improve its capacity to mitigate and
respond to emergencies.
13



* Emergency operations must be simple, rapidly executable, and not burdened with
conditionality. This project will be kept simple, using existing Government implementation
channels to the extent possible, supporting activities that are already underway and funding
importation of key commodities. It includes no policy-oriented conditionalities.
*  Interventions shouldfocus on meeting the needs of the most vulnerable groups in society. This
project will support the government's safety net programs.
*  The operation shouldfocus on sectors immediately affected, and not undertake too broad an
agenda of cross-cutting issues. This project is narrow in scope, focusing on affected areas, and
funding critical imports and government initiatives that are already underway.
*  Commitment and ownership of the borrower are criticalfor successful implementation. This
project responds to the government's direct appeal to the Bank for aid (see Schedule A) and fits
into their Emergency Drought Recovery Program.
* Speed in preparation, appraisal, and implementation are critical elements of success. The
request for the response is dated November 27, 2002. Preparation of this project started
December, 2002 and the preparation/appraisal mission is scheduled for January 2003. The
target is to have the project to the Board before the end of March, 2003.
45.    Action to reduce vulnerability, and provide long term solutions to the creation of sustainable
employment in rural areas, particularly those that are most vulnerable to climatic shock, is strongly
supported by the CAS. This project rests firmly on a key CAS pillar -- vulnerability reduction -- and
will contribute to stabilization of the macroeconomy, the defence of human development expenditure,
and direct action in the communities of families affected by the drought, with measures which seek to
re-establish sustainable livelihoods and prevent forced migration
Alternative Response Mechanisms Considered
Reallocation and Reorientation of Existing Operations
46.    The Bank has two operations underway at present in Ethiopia that offer potential opportunities
for reorientation and a rapid response to the emergency. These are the Food Security Project (P050383)
where a credit of US$ 85 million was approved in 2002, and the Social Rehabilitation and
Development Fund Project (ESRDF I P000771) where a credit of US$ 120 million and a supplemental
credit of US $28.3 million were approved in 1996 and 2002. The impact on the Government's
economic development program of redirecting these existing operations was assessed, and it was agreed
that the reorientation of these operations would be too disruptive. Rather, it was noted that the Food
Security Project is building a carefully structured long term platform for addressing vulnerability issues
in drought prone areas of the country. Disrupting this process would be a setback for the
implementation of exactly the kind of program needed to prevent the depth of the current emergency.
The Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project on the other hand, is due to close in early
2003, and has limited resources available with which to respond to emergency needs. Rather, it is
proposed to draw on the institutional structure created in this 'social fund' experience, to support the
woreda based programs planned for the proposed Emergency Drought Recovery Project.
14



Speed up the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
47.    The Bank is engaged with Government and donors in designing a broad, quick disbursing
PRSC operation to support the implementation of the SDPRP. This operation will also focus on a
response to vulnerability concerns, in addition to its economic growth and empowerrnent agenda. Under
the vulnerability component, the program team is designing interventions which include safety nets and
other community assistance and transfer mechanisms, under the framework of decentralized fiscal
management and a strengthened Woreda government. The Emergency Drought Recovery Project will
draw on the design work initiated under the PRSC, and put in place initial institutional mechanisms
based on decentralized Govemment (with considerable technical assistance) to provide a response to
communities in affected areas. The experience gained in the drought affected areas under the proposed
Emergency project will be of benefit to those engaged in the formulation of a national response to
vulnerability to be supported under the PRSC. The timing of the preparation of the PRSC does not
correspond to the needs of the present emergency.
1V. THE EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJEC'T
Project Objectives
48.    The project objective is to enable Government to help affectedfamilies survive the crisis, retain
productive assets, and develop sustainable livelihoods, as well as contribute to stabilizing the
macroeconomy. The project will: (i) defend critical human development expenditure by Government
during the next year from the pressures caused by the current crisis; (ii) maintain the availability of
critical economic inputs (particularly those needed in rural areas) and support the economic recovery
process; (iii) rehabilitate and/or create communal assets using community labor of the affected
population, and (iv) provide income supplements, and protect private assets of the affected population.
The main indicator of project impact would be to reduce levels of outmigration of affected families
from their homes. The project would contribute to the stabilization of the macroeconomy, although
identifying its impact on inflation or other indicators is not possible. A logframe for the project is
presented in Schedule F.
Project Rationale
49.    The current drought exacerbates the problems faced by vulnerable groups in the food insecure
areas of Ethiopia, pushing an ever larger number of people to the brink. of survival. Vulnerability to the
current drought has been increased, due to the cumulative effects of the asset depletion (i.e. the
consumption of productive assets such as livestock, tools, health) incurred by families who survived the
droughts of 1999 and 2000. The current project will endeavour to respond to the crisis through the
strengthening of response mechanisms which defend minimum consurnption levels, and can continue to
be developed and used as part of a standard safety net under a social protection program under the
SDPRP. In designing the response, it is proposed to use the decentralized system of government and
budget management which is being promulgated under the SDPRP, so that the machinery for response
will become embedded in the new decentralized fiscal and service delivery structure of woreda
Government. This project is seen as a complement to development initiatives already in place which
seek to develop drought proofing infrastructure, in order to sustain the livelihoods of vulnerable groups
in the food insecure woredas -- such as the Bank supported Food Security Project, the USAID
supported Relief to Development project, the Pastoral Community Development Project which is under
preparation with Bank support, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit, also under preparation with
Bank support, and other initiatives. The project will also complement the relief and assistance
15



programs supported by other donors and NGOs in the response to the Government/UN Appeal of
December 7, 2002.
50.    The GOE has an overall objective to design an integrated approach to vulnerability that uses
transfers as an element of an overall growth strategy. In keeping with this approach the emergency
grant will help lay a foundation for a development oriented safety net which includes public works as a
key component, although this project is not the main vehicle to construct such a system. It is
recognized that the emergency grant needs to be fast disbursing and to conclude within a comparatively
short time horizon. Thus, longer term issues of sustainable transfers and a reformed and revamped
public works program, to be considered as part of the emergency grant, will be further addressed within
the context of the PRSC. Explicit attention will be given to the coherence of the approaches in these
two credits.
51.    Public works and free distribution are not, however, the only feasible means to address both
chronic and acute vulnerability. School enrolments generally fall during drought emergencies due to the
need for child labor in foraging and other household activities as well as due to the fatigue of hunger.
Children also drop out due to distress migration of families in search of food and fodder for livestock.
Similarly, malnutrition predictably increases. Yet, these merely reflect the fact that the drought
exacerbates long term problems. Transfers that can be linked to protecting school attendance or to
improved nutrition serve as human capital investments at the same time that they protect the vulnerable
from the drought.
Project Description
52.    The proposed operation (costed at US$ 61.7 million) includes three components:
Community interventions (US$ 16.5 million).
53.    These activities would be targeted to 35 woredas (Schedule I) in six Regions and would seek to
improve coping capabilities, reduce malnutrition in children, protect productive assets of the affected
population, and enable them to recover their productive capacity. The program would provide funds to
the Woreda rural development department through the Food Security Program financial mechanisms,
additional to the normal block grant. The component seeks to build on the ongoing Employment
Generation Scheme and Gratuitous Relief programs, managed by the Woreda government and
supported by food aid.
54.   Development Effectiveness. Building on EGS, the project would provide cash to complement,
support and improve the development impact of the activities currently supported using payment (in
food) for labour. Features of the combined program supported by both food and cash include: (i)
formalizing the 'project' to be identified, and carried out by the community -- identifying objectives,
timing for implementation, resource requirements, community contributions and design parameters. (ii)
summarizing the agreement in a simple contract signed between the community and Woreda
Government (that provides the basis for Bank disbursement against a community grant); (iii) defining
the menu of activities to be supported to only include investments for community and Government
owned or managed infrastructure; (iv) provide cash to finance additional materials as needed to enable
projects to address a broad range of community needs (materials for reconstruction of roads,
community schools and linked sanitation and water facilities, communal ponds, communal irrigation or
water harvesting systems, or other infrastructure of common use). Funds could also supplement labour
payments, or contract in technical assistance.
16



55.    Targeted Nutrition. Building on the Gratuitous Relief program, the project would seek to
improve nutrition, by financing the inclusion of supplementary enriched food targeted at small children
and pregnant and lactating mothers in the 'food package' provided to affected families.
56.    School Attendance. Building on all relief food programs for drought affected families, the
project would fund an additional food allowance per girl attending school, to be promided against
attendance as certified by the teacher.
Quick disbursing assistance (US$ 43.5 million).
57.    The positive list of imports (listed in Schedule A) includes a list of items essential to support
the recovery of the economy, and of the agriculture sector in particular. The fast disbursing component
would contribute to stabilizing the macroeconomy by reducing the fiscal deficit, and making additional
foreign exchange available. Additional budgetary resources would permit the continuation of key
human development programs, otherwise likely to be affected by fiscal resource constraints caused by
the need to respond to the Emergency. In aggregate, the imports financed on Government's account, and
the counterpart generated from private sector imports, would be used to support the national Emergency
Drought Recovery Program . Retroactive funding would cover imports contracted as of December 7,
2002, up to an aggregate value of US$ 12 million.
Project management (U.S$ 1.7 million).
58.    Support and specialized staff would be provided for program management, monitoring and
evaluation, finance, procurement, and rural engineering at the Federal level. Funding would be
provided for capacity building programs at the Region and Woreda. Select studies would be carried out
in drought prone parts of Ethiopia, on program effectiveness and impact.
Project Financing
59.   The size of the proposed grant of US$ 60 million is based on an assessment of financial
assistance to Government from other sources, and needs to cover (i) incremental foreign exchange
requirements due to the crisis, (ii) a sharp increase in budgetary expenditures due to the crisis; (iii) a
response to the request for non-food assistance associated with economic recovery efforts in the
Government's appeal, and (iv) the resources needed to carry out a rehabilitation program large enough
to have an impact on a significant portion of the 11.3 million persons who have been identified as
affected by the current drought.
Table 6: Project Financing
US$ millions
Government or                    Percent of
Community      IDA     TOTAL     Total
Quick disbursing                        43.5     43.5      70%
Community Initiatives        1.5         15.0     16:5     27%
Project Management           0.2         1.5      1.7      3%
TOTAL                        1.7        60.0     61.7     100%
60.   IDA's contribution should be placed in the context of the joint efforts by other donors. The
total value of the contributions of both food and non-food items made in response to the current drought
17



crisis, since mid calendar 2002 totals some US$ 470 million8. This includes resources that were to be
made available to chronically vulnerable groups anyway, during late 2002, as well as additional
resources in response to the current appeal.
Implementation, Monitoring and Learning Arrangements
61.    Project implementation period. The project will be implemented over a period of 36 months
from June 2003, the estimated date of effectiveness, to June 30, 2006, the Project Completion Date.
The Closing Date for the project would be December 31, 2006. The period is long enough to enable the
lessons learned from long term impact of the safety net and social protection work, including the
various studies, to be incorporated into the ongoing design of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
and the various public sector reform initiatives.
62.    Project management. At the national level, implementation of this project will be coordinated
out of the Food Security Department of the Ministry of Rural Development. This office is the
appropriate locus for the management of this project. The Minister for Rural Development, who is also
the Deputy Prime Minister, oversees all disaster prevention and relief activities (including DPPC and
ESRDF), as well as all agriculture and rural development activities, so he is well placed to call into
action any of the various agencies needed to assist Woreda Governments. There are Government/donor
committees in place which monitor the programming and delivery of relief and food security activities.
This project would fit into and use existing structures and not create new coordination mechanisms. By
doing so, it will be possible to build the Bank project into the fabric of the other contributions by donors
and civil society to the economic recovery program, and ensure full complementarity of effort at a
minimum cost. Responsibility for implementation of the community vulnerability reduction aspects of
the project will reside with Woreda government, for those Woredas affected by drought, and selected to
receive interventions from this project. Support for the Woreda government will be provided from the
Region and the Center.
63.   In light of the large volume of resources to be managed in a short period of time, it is foreseen
that a dedicated Project Management Unit will be established within the Food Security Department,
which will coordinate the use of Bank resources, and ensure that fiduciary requirements are met.
Under the project, a project coordinator, a procurement officer, a financial management officer, a
monitoring and evaluation officer and a rural engineer will be hired on a contract basis to staff this unit.
The PMU will work in concert with the National Bank of Ethiopia to disburse funding for eligible
imports under the quick disbursing component. The PMU will develop an Operations Manual which
will guide project activities in the implementation of the project, with particular emphasis on the
community initiatives component. Prior Grant effectiveness, a monitoring framework will be
developed which makes use of existing monitoring and information capture and transfer mechanisms,
adjusted as necessary to respond to the needs of this project, would be developed by the Project
Management Unit. This unit would provide regular reports on project implementation to the joint
Government-donor coordinating councils and the World Bank. Key monitorable indicators are provided
in Schedule F.
8 Provided by the UN Emergency Unit for Ethiopia (UN-EUE)
18



Financial Management, Procurement and Disbursement
64.    The Project Management Unit in the Food Security Department of the Ministry of Rural
Development will be in charge of implementing the project, and will assume responsibility for ensuring
that project execution meets the Bank's fiduciary standards. The Food Security Department currently
includes a project implementation team for the Bank funded Food Security Project (Credit 3646 ET)
and a second team charged with implementation of the Government's own Food Security Program.
65.    The capacity of Government to meet Bank requirements for financial management,
procurement and disbursement has been assessed and various measures will be put in place by Grant
effectiveness to ensure that staffing, systems and procedures are adequate to meet the Bank's fiduciary
requirements. A project coordinator, a financial management officer and a procurement officer will be
in place prior to Grant Effectiveness, by which time the Government will also have put in place a
financial management and a monitoring system capable of producing Financial Monilcoring Reports
(Model 3). The Government will maintain the accounts, provide reports and manage the resources
according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
66.    Retroactive financing. Retroactive finance would be made available for an aggregate value of
up to US$ 12 million for eligible expenditures procured using acceptable procedures, where the
expenditure was incurred after the date of the Government/UN appeal of December 7, 2002.
67.    Disbursements. The project will have one Special Account to cover the neecls of the
community interventions and the project management components. The quick disbursing component
would disburse directly to Government against eligible imports, and would not require a Special
Account. IDA would disburse 100 % against the value of eligible imports (excluding duties and taxes
and internal transport costs), and 100% against the amount disbursed by Government as a Subproject
Grant to communities. Disbursements for subproject grants will be against statements of expenditures.
These two expenditure categories cover over 95% of the foreseen expenditure under the project. A
Project Account to be operated by the PMU will be opened and funded with Birr 858,000 provided
prior to Grant Effectiveness, to provide for the counterpart funding needed to implernent the project.
68.    Procurement. Procurement procedures would be overseen by the Procurement Officer, a
member of the PMU in the Food Security Department of the Ministry of Rural Development. Prior to
project effectiveness, a procurement plan will be prepared by the PMU and presented to the Bank.
There are two main procurement processes under the project, which would consume 98 percent of the
IDA resources: (i) the quick disbursing component for US $ 43.5 million and (ii) the community
initiatives component, for US $ 15 million. The quick disbursing component wil I reimburse the CIF
cost of imports which are on the positive list (Schedule A) and meet the procurement requirement.
Purchases of goods under this component would make use of modified competitive bidding procedures.
Where appropriate, commonly traded commodities will be purchased using standard commercial
practice. Imports by the private sector valued at less than US$ 3 million per contract will also be
purchased using established commercial practice satisfactory to the Association. Imports by public
sector entities where the contract amount is less than US$ 750,000 can use international shopping
procedures. A small portion of the purchases to be made under this component can be made by direct
contracting, to cover nutritional supplements, seeds and other key inputs. The community initiatives
component will provide grants to communities, to fund subprojects developed with the assistance: of
local Government at the Woreda level and below. Simple procedures for local shopping and minor
works to be specified in the Operations Manual will cover most of the requirements. The maximum
grant size is US$ 100,000 under this component, but the average is expected to be well below US$
50,000.
19



Main Grant Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
69.    The conditions of effectiveness ensure that the institutions charged with implementing the
project are in place and will be able to carry out their tasks effectively, meeting the management and
fiduciary standards required of IDA funded projects. These include:
(i)   the establishment of a satisfactory accounting and financial management system for the project;
(ii)  the opening of a Project account for counterpart funding;
(iii)  the adoption of a satisfactory Project Operations Manual;
(iv)   staffing of the Project Management Unit with key personnel including: a project coordinator, a
financial management officer, and a procurement officer.
Other Agreements
70.    The Development Grant Agreement includes further agreements on project implementation:
(i)    the preparation of a mid term review by December 31, 2004;
(ii)  the need to seek IDA agreement before making material changes in the Operations Manual;
(iii)  the preparation of an Environmental Management Plan and a Resettlement Policy Framework
satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 2003;
(iv)   the appointment of a rural engineer within three months of the date of effectiveness of the
grant.
(v)    the terms and conditions under which the subproject grants will be provided to communties.
Project Sustainability
71.    While designated an emergency operation, this project will address issues which are at the core
of the development program for Ethiopia. The country's poverty reduction strategy seeks to addresses
the issues surrounding vulnerability -- how to prevent families from sinking into a trap of destitution
and continuous dependence, how to bring families out of this trap, and provide sustainable livelihoods.
The kind of safety net activities supported under this project are likely to be continued, and expanded
under future programs which support the SDPRP, such as the proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy
Credit. This project is designed to continue the efforts underway to date to enable vulnerable families
in Ethiopia to emerge from a poverty trap, and emphasizes the need to provide an extraordinary impetus
to these activities, in light of the catastrophic consequences of the recent drought.
Environmental and Social Aspects
72.    There are no significant environmental issues arising from this project. Potential safeguard
issues relate to the provision of small community level infrastructure, livestock management, cultural
property, and natural habitats. Critical wildlife habitats and existing parks are in the highest part of the
highland areas, in regions of adequate rainfall, outside of the affected areas. There are culturally
important stone churches and monuments in the affected area, but they are not threatened by the crisis.
The rural infrastructure components, which may include small, community level infrastructure such as
rural road rehabilitation and related works, school and clinic rehabilitation, small communal water
harvesting infrastructure, bunds, terraces, gully plugs, and erosion control infrastructure, have triggered
safeguard policies, and it is requested that the operation be classified Category B. Following appraisal,
20



an environmental assessment will be carried out which will set the stage for the implementation of a
mitigation plan, and for capturing and responding to monitorable indicators on high impact activities.
73.    An environmental assessment (EA) will be carried out by December 31, 2003, about six
months after project effectiveness. The EA will assess potential environmental and social impacts
related to livestock management, including water points; the provision of small, community-level
infrastructure; the level of environmental assessment and management capacity at The woreda level and
potential training needs; and it will assess the potential for coordination with ongoing projects such as
the ESRDF, the Emergency Rehabilitation Project and the planned Pastoral Community Development
Project. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared as part of thiis EA
74.    Construction of communal infrastructure (ponds, small irrigation, tracks) may involve the
acquisition of land and the withdrawal of access to land hitherto used by individuals. These activities
may therefore have an impact on the livelihood of individuals or cause involuntary resettlement
(although highly unlikely in an Ethiopian rural community context, as communal infrastructure
activities emanate from the communities themselves). The Government will undertake to prepare a
Resettlement Policy Framework in parallel with the Environmental Assessment and Management: Plan,
to be presented to the Bank by December 31, 2003.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
75.    The major benefits expected to accrue from the project are: (i) families affected by the current
drought will receive support from the Government sooner, and with more resources, than would
otherwise have been the case; (ii) all of the aid received will be used more effectively, due to the
existence of timely and complementary cash inputs provided by the Bank; (iii) the macro-economy will
remain stable, and Government will not have to withdraw or divert resources from the implementation
of its normal, long run efforts to reduce vulnerability and create sustainable long term livelihoods for its
rural poor; (iv) mechanisms will be tested that will evolve into the tools for providing safety net support
to vulnerable Ethiopians over the long term; and (v) the rural public works programs will create
productive community assets and enhance sustainable livelihoods in r ural Ethiopia, in addition to
smoothing consumption of vulnerable households.
76.    Probably the greatest risk to the effectiveness of this intervention lies in the ability of the
woreda Governments to rise to the challenge of responding to the ongoing calamity. For this reason,
considerable effort and resources will be committed to support mechanisms, to develop and supplement
implementation capacity at the woreda, so that the programs indeed reach out to the vulnerable
communities in a timely fashion. A related, perhaps lower risk, lies in the difficulties, and lack of
commitment, associated with putting in place a woreda based, fiscally funded safety net, as proposed.
Risks associated with the mismanagement of resources are not great in Ethiopia, and will be minimized
with the use of management and financial systems tailored to the project, as well as through the use of
the fiscal budget itself.
21



Schedule A
Positive List of Imports
1.     Agricultural equipment and inputs, including fertilizer and excluding pesticides and
insecticides.
2.     Petroleum and fuel products.
3.     Construction materials.
4.     Transport vehicles and spare parts.
5.     Livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies.
6.     School supplies and equipment.
7.     Medical supplies and equipment.
8.     Construction equipment, industrial machinery and spare parts.
9.     Electrical equipment, machinery, materials and parts.
10.   Industrial raw materials and chemicals.
22



Schedule B
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Formal Request from Govemment for Assistance:         November 27, 2002
First Meeting Ad Hoc Advisory Committee               January 16, 2003
Identification/Pre-appraisal Mission in Field         January 20, 2003
ROC Meeting Authorizing Appraisal                     January 30, 2003
Start of Negotiations in the Field                    February 14, 2003
Proposed Presentation to Board                        March 25, 2003
Estimated Grant Effectiveness                         May 30, 2003
23



Schedule C
Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arranrements
1.    Flexible Procurement Arrangements: Procurement arrangements and procedures shall be
commensurate with the emergency nature of the Project. In addition, the need has been recognized for
simple mechanisms to facilitate acquisition of materials and resources by communities in dispersed
locations. The arrangements devised are aimed at efficient procurement that underpin quick
disbursement and distribution of goods and money, mixing procurement on the local market in the
drought -affected areas with procurement and distribution from regional, national and international
levels.
2.     Manual of Procurement Procedures: An Operational Manual under the EDRP will be
prepared by the Borrower with assistance from the Bank. Bank procurement guidelines and policies
will be included in the Manual, for use by the PMU which will implement this project. The procedures
for community- based procurement shall also be included in the Manual, and will be used where
applicable.
Types of Procurement
3.     Positive List of Imports: IDA will provide financing for goods on a positive list of imports.
Retroactive financing shall cover imports as of December 7, 2002, up to 20% of the value of the grant.
The procurement review shall be done based on a random sample review for contracts from the private
sector. The review will be done on 10 % of the contracts for contracts with a value of USD 100,000.00
or less and 20% for contracts above USD 100,000.00. Goods on the positive list will procured using
Modified ICB. It is envisioned that disbursements will be made against invoices for imports on the
positive list, which have met the procurement guidelines. Under this category, commonly traded
commodities can be procured under contracts awareded under established commercial practices. Also,
goods imported by the private sector (under a contract ceiling of US$ 3,000,000) can be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with established commercial practices satisfactory to the Association.
Private sector is defined to include financially autonomous state owned enterprises established and
operating according to Ethiopia's commercial legislation. In addition, for goods imported by the
public sector estimating to cost less than US$ 750,000 per contract, may be procured on the basis of
international shopping procedures.
4.
5.     Community-based Procurement: Each community will enter into a simple agreement with
the local government which sets out the scope of the activities and obligations of the parties. The
contract will provide for release of funds to the recipient who will, in turn, procure the specified items
from the local market. For some materials or services not locally available in adequate quantities, the
PMU at the Federal level (or the regional administration, as expedient) may award contracts (under the
project's procurement guidelines) and the regional administration will then undertake distribution of
such goods or supervision of such services. The release of funds to the community will be made in two
phases, based on the progress on the implementation. The committee will, through the woreda level
task force, supervise and finally record satisfactory completion of the support program by the recipient.
Another level of monitoring mechanisms operated by the Regional Administration will provide further
safeguards for ensuring that the money is used for the end use for which it was approved. The PMU at
the Federal level will have procurement audits conducted every six months and agree with the Bank on
24



any improvements needed in the system. This procedure will be utilized for control of use of the
counterpart funds allocated for these components.
In most rural areas, infrastructure and markets are not well developed. Therefore access to required
resources will be limited. No single solution is available and each Woreda should devise its own
solution. The alternative options available include the following.
o      Open Market: Where the market is strong, or where Woreda are located near to
towns, communities should be able to access resources;
o      Service Co-Operatives: on a commercial basis these could stock commodities that
the communities requires;
o      Community Groups getting together to buy similar commodities; from distant
markets;
o      Communities contract local merchants to provide materials and supplies.
6.     Proiect Related Procurement: For the remaining procurement, the tasks can be readily
defined and procurement plans prepared. Relevant Bank guidelines and procedures will operate for
goods, works (although few works are forseen outside of the community based acl:ivities) and services.
Procurement plans will be prepared and will provide the basis for agreement with IDA on the proposed
packaging and the optimal methods of procurement. Most of the procurement plans (to be included in
the Operations Manual) will be ready prior to Grant Effectiveness and will facilitate early
implementation of the emergency project. The portion of the credit that will be utilized for eligible
imports, including retroactive financing, will require: (a) use of a positive list, ancl (b) observance of the
Bank's procurement principles.
7.     Procurement methods will be subject to flexible limits on aggregate amounts to be procured,
thus giving the Borrower the option to choose the most suitable method of procurement for any given
case and to use easily accessible procedures such as national competitive bidding, and national
shopping.
Institutional Arraneements for Procurement
8.     For those components where community-based procurement methods will apply, The programs
would be carried out through funds provided to the community through the Woreda Rural Development
Department.
The non-community based procurement would be undertaken by the PMU at the Federal level. At least
one procurement staff will be recruited in the Federal EDRP-PMU. H-e(She) will conduct procurement
for the relevant components of the Project, but including eligible imports (and retroactive financing)
and will also be responsible for the quality and timeliness of procurement in the Project as a whole.
They will prepare procurement plans for the items to be procured. They will also monitor that adequate
number of staff are always in position in each individual component implementation unit and that all
are afforded procurement training, as needed. They will initiate periodic procurement audits and take
follow up action.
25



Procurement Procedures
9.    IDA financed credit will be utilized for goods, training, consultancy, and operating costs under
the Project. Procurement for all IDA financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting services by firns or
individuals will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997; Revised September 1997; Addendum Effective
January 1, 1999. Simplified procedures for Emergency projects will be used, wherever needed.
10.   Consultant selection for assignments will be addressed through competition among qualified
short-listed firms and individuals in which the selection will be based on Quality-and-Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) by evaluation of the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of services to
be provided. In addition, selection shall also be done based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) and
other methods as provided for in the DGA. Shortlists for contracts estimated to cost under US$100,000
may be comprised entirely of national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified (at least three) are
available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be
excluded. Contracts less than US$100,000 each for firms, and US$50,000 for individuals, could be
contracted on the basis of CQ, and may be awarded on a single source basis only in exceptional
circumstances, after adequate justification and prior review of the TORs by IDA.
11.   Procurement of goods (in the non-quick disbursing components) will be carried out in
accordance with Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1996,
August 1996, September 1997, January 1999). Contracts of individual value US$200,000 equivalent or
above will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Small value goods procurement contracts (individual value
of less than US$200,000) equivalent will be awarded on the basis of NCB. Contracts up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent maybe procured under community participation
arrangements using the simplified formats set forth in the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement for Community- based Investments. Contracts less than US$50,000 each may be awarded
through National Shopping using approved procedures. The procedure to be adopted here is to award
fixed price contracts on the basis of written solicitation issued to at least three qualified suppliers after
evaluation of bids which would be received in writing.
12.   Procurement of works will be carried out in accordance with Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1996, August 1996, September 1997, January 1999).
Larger contracts of individual value US$500,000 equivalent or above will be awarded on the basis of
ICB. Small value works procurement contracts (individual value of less than US$500,000) equivalent
will be awarded on the basis of NCB. In spite of these provisions, no large works contracts are
foreseen. Contracts up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent maybe
procured under community participation arrangements using the simplified formats set forth in the
Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-based Investments. Contracts
less than US$30,000 each may be awarded as small works through lump sum fixed price contracts on
the basis of written quotes from at least three qualified civil works contractors.
Prior Review Thresholds
13.   For procurement of goods, all cases valued at US$200,000 or more (with the exception of
purchases via the Positive List for Category I of the Disbursement Schedule) will require prior review
by IDA.
26



14.    For Works, all cases valued at US$200,000 or more will require prior review by IDA.
However, large works are not foreseen for financing under this project.
15.    The Bank will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proiposed by the
borrower for those consultancy contracts to be awarded to firms and individuals. Prior review will not
be required for contracts worth less than US$100,000 for firms and contracts worth less than
US$50,000 for individuals. However, IDA will review (a) all Terms of Reference of contracts,
regardless of value, (b) all single-source hiring, (c) assignments of a critical nature as determined by
IDA, (d) amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the prior review thresholds.
Risk Assessment
16.    Overall Risk Assessment is rated as High.
17.   A substantial portion of the intervention would be carried out by the communities through the
Woreda Rural Development Department. Due to the limitation of capacity of the community and
Woredas in handling such projects capacity need to be built at community and Woreda level. This
would be the most critical aspect of the procurement works. Very simple manuals for community
procurement, as appropriate in local languages need to be developed and training provided to the
Woreda and community representatives. The Community should also seek the support of NGOs,
Community Organizations in handling the community level activities. The first year action plan should
incorporate and give focus to training and development of the manuals.Frequency of procurement
supervisions proposed: One every six months, including special procurement supervision for post
review and audits
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
(US $ millions equivelent)
Modified
Expenditure Category                ICB      ICB      NCB     Other     NBF      Total
Goods on Positive List                       43.5        _         _             43.5
(43.5)       _         _          _ (43.5)
Goods, Works, Vehicles and Equipmen1                   0.2      0.1      _        0.3
(0.2)    (0.1)     _      _ (0.3)
Consultant Services and Training                                1.1               1.1
___ _ __   (1.0)        (1.0)
Community Subprojects                                    _      16.5              16.5
(15.0)            (15.0)
Operating Costs                                                 0.3               0.3
(0.2)             (0.2)
OTAL                                 0       43.5      0.2      18        0       61.7
Total IDA financed                  (0.0)    (43.5)   (0.2)    (16.3 i  (0.0)    (60.0)
27



Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category   Contract Value     Procurement Method     Contracts Subject to
Threshold                                  Prior Review
(US$ thousands)
Goods on Positive List                    Standard commercial
Private Sector    Under $ 3,000,000        practices 9/         Post review only
Public Sector      Under $ 750,000    International Shopping   Evaluation first 3
Over $ 750,000        Modified ICB               All
Goods and Works     Over US$ 200,000           ICB                  Standard
Under US$ 200,000          NCB                Over $ 200,000
Under US$ 50,000    International Shopping  Evaluation of first 3
Direct contract                                  All
Consultant Services
and Training:
Individuals        Over $ 50,000        Qualifications              All
Under $ 50,000        Qualifications        TORs reviewed
Firms           Over $ 100,000           QCBS                Review of RFP
Under $ 100,000       Qualifications     TORs and qualifications
Community          $ 100,000 max       Operations Manual
Subprojects
Operating Costs                        Government procedure
9 For commodities, or for private sector imports
28



Financial Management Arrangements
The Food Security Department (FSD) at the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) will be responsible
for the overall management of the project. The FSD is currently implementing a new IDA funded F'ood
Security Project (Credit no. 3646-ET of USD 85 million as well as a government and EU funded Food
Security Program. The Department has very little experience in implementing donor-financed projects.
As a result of this, an experienced financial officer is required to design a simple financial management
system that will produce accurate, reliable, timely and complete financial information about the project
activities. The Woreda Finance Offices will handle all the transactions related to the project and will on
regular basis report to the FSD at the MRD.
Fund Flows
The project will use a quick disbursing mechanism to disburse funds from the proceeds of the grant for
the quick disbursing component where the government will submit expenditures incurred on positive
list of imports agreed between the Government and the Bank. The quickc disbursing component will
support critical imports through a positive list of import requirements linked to the drought and assist
the government in drought recovery efforts. The Bank after reviewing evidences on the expenditures
incurred on the positive lists of imports will transfer the foreign exchange in to the accounts of the
MoFED to be opened at the National Bank of Ethiopia.
One Special Account (SA) will be opened by the FSD at the National Bank of Ethiopia for the
community grant and the project implementation and management components of the project. Funds
from the proceeds of the grant will be transferred to this SA based on the four months estimated
expenditures of the project. The initial advance will be USD 1.50 million, to be increased to 3.0 million
once disbursements exceed SDR 3.5 million. Subsequent replenishments will be made on the basis of
actual utilization. The project may use the Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for al I community grants,
training and operating costs; and consultancy services less than USD 100,000 for firms and less than
USD 50,000 for individuals. Full documentation will be submitted for all contracts above the SOE
limits. From the SA, the FSD may transfer money to the Woreda Finance Offices for eligible project
expenditures. The Woreda Development Committee (WDC) assisted by the Worecla Rural
Development Officer will approve specific proposals submitted by cornmunities. T'he Woreda Rural
Development Officer will help communities to prepare proposals, activities to be performed by
communities. Communities will enter into a contract with the WDC. Based on the aggregate proposals
submitted by the WDC, the FSD will transfer money to the bank account of the Woreda Finance Office
to be opened specifically for this purpose. The Woreda Finance Office based on the request from the
WDC will transfer money to the communities in installments, 50% initially and the remaining 50% of
the presentation satisfactory report on the utilization of the money. Communities are expected to
provide supporting evidences for the utilization of the money and all the supporting documents will be
kept at the Woreda Finance Office. Once the money is transferred to the communities, the Woreda
Finance Office will prepare and send SOEs to the FSD. The FSD will consolidate all the SOEs
collected from Woredas and the transactions at the FSD and submit withdrawal application to the Bank
for the replenishment of the SA.
Accounting and financial reportin'
The FSD will be responsible to maintain records and accounts, which reflects the resources and
expenditures of the project in line with sound accounting practice. The Finance Officer (FO) to be
employed by the FSD will develop a simple project and financial management systems, which will
provide adequate and relevant financial information on timely basis. The Financial transactions of the
project will be recorded in accordance with acceptable accounting standards acceptable to the Bank.
29



The FO will prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The FMRs will include financial,
procurement and physical reports of the project. The financial reports in the FMRs will include a
statement showing for the period and cumulatively cash receipts by sources and expenditures by main
expenditure classifications, beginning and ending cash balances of the project and supporting schedules
comparing actual and planned expenditures. The FMRs should be submitted to the Bank not later than
45 days after the end of each quarter. The format of the FMR will be agreed during negotiation of the
grant.
ExternalAudit
All the financial transactions of the project will be subject to external audit. The consolidated annual
project financial statements of the project, the movement in the special account (SA) and Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) will be audited by an external auditor acceptable to IDA. The annual audited
financial statements, along with the management letter, will be submitted to IDA not later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year.
Since the Federal Auditor General is responsible for auditing all government funds, it will conduct the
audit or assign other external auditor to the project. External auditors will be appointed within six
months after the date of effectiveness. The terms of reference for the external auditors will
be developed and provided to the auditors before the commencement of their work.
Retroactive Financiuf
Retroactive financing in the amount of USD 12 million, which is equivalent to 20% of the grant
amount, will be provided to cover expenditures incurred on the positive list of imports before the grant
signing date, but after 7 December 2002, the date of the official appeal for support from the
international community.
Allocation of grant to expenditure categories
Category             Description               Amount (USD)          Percentage of
Financing
I         Eligible imports                       43,450,000      100%
2          Goods, vehicles and equipment          250,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
3          Consultant's services and training     1,000,000       100% of foreign
expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
4          Community Subprojects                 14,500,000       100% of amounts
disbursed
5          Operating costs                        250,000        85 %
6          Unallocated                            500,000
60,000,000
30



Schedule D
Ethiopia at a glance                                                              9/24/02
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Ethiopia    Africa   Income      Development dlamond
2001
Population, mid-year (nillions)                       65.8       674      2.511                 tifo expectanc7
GNI per capita (Alias metod, USS)                      100       470       430
GNI (Atlas mfehod, US$ biDions)                       6.7       317      1,089
Average annual growth, 1995401
Population(96)                                         25         2.5       1.9                     .               G
Laborforce (96)                                        2.2        2.6       2.3     GNIm Grss
per                  '-        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                               capita         .    '       enrmiment
Poverty (51 ofpopulation below natonal povefty fine)
Urban population (f6 of total populatfon)               16        32        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        42        47        59
infant mortality (per 1,000 live birhs)                 98        91        76
Chid mainutnffon (9 ofchildmn under 5)                  47                               Access to Improved weter source
Access to an Improved water source (X otpopulaton)      24        55        76
lliteracy (96 ofpopulation age 15+)                     80        37        37
Gross primary enmllment (96 otschool-age populatfon)    71        78        96
Mate                                                  85        85       103                 Low4ncme gmwup
Female                                                57        72        88         _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000       2001
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                            5.2      9.5        6.4       6.2
Gmss domestic investment/GDP                 13.3      9.9       15.3      18.0
ExportsofgoodsandserviceslGDP                10.7      5.7       15.5      15.4                    Trde
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    7.3      2 7       -0.1       2.2
Gross natfonal savmngslGDP                    8.1      4.4       10.0      13.7
Currant account balance/GDP                  -4.8     -5.5       -5.3      -4.4     Domestic                    Investnent
interest paymentsvGDP                         0.3      0.4        0.8       1.0     savings
Total debUGDP                                35.6     95.9       86.2      91 4
Total debt service/exports                   10 3     25.2       13.8      18.9
Present value of debUGDP                                         51.3
Present value of debtlexpolts                                   326.5
Indebtednecs
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001    2001-05
(average annual g,oalh)
GDP                                  1.0      5.3      5.4        7.7       6.3                  Efhlopa
GDP per capita                      -2.1      2.9      2.9        5.2       3.5                   Low-incorne group
Exports of goods and services        0.8     11.9     23.6       -1.6       6.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991       2000      2001     Growth of investnent and CODP (%)
(96 of GDP)                                                                         30
Agnculture                                   56.1     59.1       52.3      52.3
Industry                                     12.3     10.1       11.1      11.1     20
Manufacturing                                7.9      5.4       7.0       7.0    1I
Services                                     31.6     30.8       36.5      38.5
Private consumption                          79.0     81.8       76.8      80.3    A0         97      so    ss   oo    o
General government consumption               13.7     15.5       23.2      17.5              -     GDI    -*GDP
Imports af goods and services                16.7     12.9       30.8      31.2
1981-91  190141       2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)                                                             0
Agriculture                                   0.7      2.3        2.2      11.5     4-
Industry                                     -1.0      6.4        1.8       5.8
Manufacturing                              -2.5       7.6       2.1      21.7     20     _      _
Services                                      2.5      8.2        9.5       4.6     o
Private consumpbon                            0.8      2.7       -1.9      11.4            ss   07          r     oo    o
General government consumpton                 3.0     13.0       29.3     -18.5     2
Gross domestic investment                     0.2     10.9       -1.2      27.4             -Exports         *Imperts
Imports of goods and services                 1.2      7.1        6.3      -1.8
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
31



Page 2 of 2
Ethiopia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991       2000      2001     Inflation (%)
Domes78c prkres                                                                      1
(X change)                                                                           15
Consumer prices                                6 1     20.9        4.2      -7.2     10
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..    16.1        1.7      -7.0      5
Governmentt fnance                                                                                       9
(X of GDP, includes curent grants)                                                   -5                  O 
Current revenue                               16.4     13.7       18.3      19.6    -10 
Current budget balance                         -0.2    -4.7       -8.2      -04                    GDP deflator     CPi
Overall surplus/deficit             .          -4.9   -10.9      -14.8     -10.0
TRADE
1981     1991       2000      2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(UST  ntillions)
Total exports (eob)                            411      276       486       441 5     ooo
Coflee                                         .      130        262       175 3      .
Leather and leather prducts                    .       45         35        38     1,5.
Manufactures                                 7       1          16        .558
Total Imports (odf                             744     1,029     1,611         1 .558  1,000
Food                                           ..     152        116       241      soo
Fuel and energy                                 .     102        213       265
Capital goods                                         466        755       589       9o                       9    00    0
Export price Index (1995=100)                   82       77        64        59            ss   08   97   W     99   00   0
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                     112       99        116      117                   KEsports      mmpt
Terms of trade (1995= 100)                      73       78         55       50
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991       2000      2001      Currant account balance to GDP I%)
(USS nillions)
Exports of goods and services                  554      543        984      957
Imports ot goods and seMces                    845     1,226     1,960     1,945_o__                    _
Resource balance                              -291     -683       -976      -987
Net Income                                      -7      -73        -60       -59     _2
Net current transfers                           50      229        701      T74      4
Current account balance                       -249     -528       -335      -272     .8
Finanang items (net)                           190      681        110      259      -8
Changes in net reserves                         59     -153        225        13     10
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (USS ratIons)           370      106
Conversion rate (DEC, local4USS)               2.1      2.1        8 2       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991       2000      2001
(US$ milions)                                                                       ComposItion of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,842     9,119     5,483     5,697
IBRD                                          52       20          0        0                          60
IDA                                          276      883      1,779     2,151                   100
Total debt service                              58      138        138       183
IBRD                                           7        9          0        0                                     2151
IDA                                            2       11        34        36
Composibon of net resource flows                                                                         r
Offldai grants                               135      781
Offidal creditors                            894      145        122      435
Pnvate creditors                              63      212         -8       -10
Foreign direct Investment                      0        6         50        0
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0        0                         946
Worid Bank program
Commibments                                   76        0       465       202      A - IBRD                     E - Wateral
Disbursements                                 28       59        137      455      B - IDA   D - Oeh  nulblaterai  F - Pnvate
Prindpal repayments                            4       12        21        22      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net fiows                                     23       46        116      433
Interest payments                              5        8         13       14
Net transfers                                 18       38        103      419
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/24/02
32



Schedule E
Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Original Gross Commitments
Year            Borrower/Purpose                                        Loan     Esquity Participant  Total
Fully canceled, terminated. written-off, sold. redeemed. or repaid investments
1965-73         Dire Dawa (Spinning, weaving and finishing)              2.4        1.4       1.1     4.8
1966            Ethiopian Pulp (Manuf. of pulp paper and paperboard)      0.0       1.9       0.0      1.9
1968            Metahara (Sugar factories and refineries)                4.9        3.5       0.7     9.0
1989            Red Sea (Crude petroleum and natural gas)                 0.0       7.8       (.0     7.8
Approvals pending commitment
2002            Coca-Cola SABCO (Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania,      15.0      10.0       0.0     25.0
Mozambique)
Total gross commitments                                                  22.3      24.6       1.7     48.6
Less: cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                   7.3      14.6       1.7     23.6
Total commitments now held                                               15.0      10.0       0.0     25.0
Source: World Bank.
33



Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed Projects                      66
IBRD/IDA (USSm) 
Total Disbursed (Active)              948.52
of which has been repaid         0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)              2,082.58
of which has been repaid         357.28
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)     3,031.10
of which has been repaid         357.28
Total Undisbursed (Active)            834.91
Total Undisbursed (Closed)            4.89
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)   839.80
Active Projects
Last PSR                                                        Expected and
Supervision Rating               Original Amount in USS m          Disbursements
Project ID   Project Name                          Develosmen Implementation Fiscal Year      IDA GRANT Cancel.    Undisb.     Org.   Revd
P000733      AG. RESEARCH & TRAINING               S                  S          1998         60.0                    31.3     24.5
P035147      CONSERVATION OF MEDICINAL PLANTS      S                  S         2001                   1.9    0.0      1.8       0.2
P052315      CONSERVATION OF MEDICINAL PLANTS      S                  S         2001           2.6                     2.3      -0.4
P057770      CULTURAL HERITAGE                     S                  S         2002           5.0                     5.4       0.4
P050938      Capacity Building for Dec.Serv.Del.   S                  S         2003          26.2                    27.4       3.3
P073196      Demobilization and Reintegration Project  HS             S         2001         170.6                    49.1     27.3
P000732      EDUCATION SECTOR INVESTMENT           S                  S          1998        100.0                    21.2     22.9
P067084      EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND REHAB.         S                  S         2001        230.0                    144.5    134.1
P049395      ENERGY ACCESS PROJECT                                              2003         132.7                   138.1       0.6
P000736      ET ENERGY 11                          S                  S          1998       200.0                     58.0     51.2
P069886      ETHIOPIA MULTISECTORAL HIV/AIDS       S                  S         2001          59.7                    44.2      15.3
P074585      Ethiopia Structural Adjustment Credit  S                 S         2002         120.0                     0.0      -7.4
P050383      Ethiopia: FOOD SECURITY PROJECT       S                  S          2002         85.0                    89.7      -2.0
P069083      GLOBAL DISTANCE LEARNING              U                  U          2001          4.9                     4.8       2.8
P000756      HEALTH SECTOR                         S                  S          1999        100.0                    44.1     43.4
P000755      ROAD SEC. DEV. PROG.                  S                  S          1998        309.2                   124.4     131.8   75.8
P000771      Social Rehab (ESRDF I)                S                  S          1996        148.3           11.5     38.6      33.9   21.1
P000764      WATER SUPPLY DEV&REH                  S                  S          1996         35.7                     5.4       9.3
P050342      WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES       S                  S          2001          5.0                     4.5       1.4    0.5
Overall Result                                                                              1794.9     1.9   11.5    834.9    492.5    97.4
Legend: HS = Highly satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; HU = Highly unsatisfactory; U= Unsatisfactory
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Source: World Bank



Schedule F
Pro iect Design Summary
Hierarchy of Objectives           Key Performance             Data Collection            Critical
Indicators                 Strategy             Assumptions
Sector Related CAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:            Sector/Country
Reports:
Reducing vulnerability is one of the  Acute malnutrition - weight for
three pillars of the CAS        height significantly below norm  NGO and Government
surveys
Project Development Objective:  Outcome/Impact Indicators:    Project reports:
Enable Government to help       Distress migration prevented
affected families survive the crisis,                         From Woreda
retain productive assets, and   Student drop out rates reduced,  Government
develop sustainable livelihoods  especially for girls
Contribute to stabilizing the  Inflation rate lowered         Government reports
macroeconomy
Output from each Component:     Output Indicators             Project Reports       From Outputs to
Objective
Defend critical Human           Sector budget expenditure shares
Development expenditure by      and amounts for human         Govemment reports
Govemment                       development expenditure not
reduced
Maintain availability of critical  Prices for critical economic inputs  Government price series
economic inputs                 kept stable
Rehabilitate and create communal  Number of community         Project reports
assets                         subprojects implemented
Provide income supplements, and  Household asset base not     Government or NGO
protect private assets          consumed                      Household surveys 
Project Components and          Inputs: (budget for each      Project Reports       (from Components to
Subcomponents:                  component)                                          Outputs)
Finance for imports from a positive  US$ 43.5 million                               Difficulties in meeting
list                                                                                prcocurement procedural
requirements
Grants to communities for       US$ lS million                                      The capacity of Woreda
subprojects                                                                         Government to promote
and manage subprojects,
and cash grants to
communities.
Project management, training and  US$ 1.5 million
monitoring.                                                                         Government ownership
_______ ______ _______ ______   _____ _______ ______ _______  __________of the  project  objectives



Schedule G
Workfare Program Desian
Present features and moves towards international rood practice
Norms/Features of Workfare     Towards a Revamped            Moving Workfare Programs
programs at present            Workfare program under the   towards International Good
Emergency Credit (what can    Practice
and needs to be changed
immediately)
1. Participation norms: Five   Same norms will continue.     The norrns currently set are based
person days participation is                                 on two considerations (a) imparting
required to receive a ration of 12.5                         work ethic, and (c) inter-family
kg per month; more than one                                  equity. This would be unnecessary
person in the family may                                     if the level of the wage is adjusted
participate in EGS. Wage rate fell                          towards the market wage, and
from 3 kg per person per day plus                            workfare program expand and
120 grams of oil, to 2.5 kg per                              contract as needed (see below).
person per day as the total food
availability (domestic plus donor)
fell. Thus, the concept is "work
contribution" to earn the ration.
2. Targeting criteria: Regions.  Geographical targeting seems to  Continue with geographic targeting
The program adopts geographical  work reasonably well in periods  until the overall food security
targeting and selects regions which  of droughts; however, woredas  position improves; gradually
are drought-prone. By April 2002,  where special efforts are being  extend the program throughout the
food-wage-based workfare       made by other donor agencies for  country because there are "food
program has expanded to 57     capacity building will be selected  insecure" vulnerable households
woredas.                       for experimenting with a      even in "food-secure" regions.
revamped workfare program.
3. Targeting criteria: participants.  The selected woredas would have  Selection of participants by peasant
A combination of administrative  experimented with genuine   associations should stop, and in its
targeting, self-targeting and  community-driven selection of  place self-selection be introduced
community targeting. In practice,  participants in a transparent way,  adjusting the wage rate. (see below)
Peasant Associations use certain  giving less discretion to Peasant
criteria to identify potential  associations/Kebele chiefs to
participants (mostly those lacking  draw up participant lists.
livestock, or landless or female-  Transparency in targeting, the key
headed ) are registered for public  to avoid exclusion and inclusion
works programs.                errors, will be ensured.
4. Level of wage and mode of   The currently prevailing food  Once the current emergency lifts
payment. Based on nutritional  wage of 2.5 kg will continue.  and the food security situation
norms, a food wage of 3 kg of                                improves, move towards cash
wheat and 120 grams of oil per day                           wage, and set the wage at a level
is fixed. In practice, in most                               slightly below the market wage.
locations, only 2.5 kg of grain is                           Workfare wage rate may, however,
provided. Most (90%) received                                differ across Regions to the extent
wages in kind. In one project                                market wage differs across
funded by EU (SOS Sahel                                      Regions.
36



Workfare Program Design
Present features and moves towards international good practice
program) cash wage of _   Birr
was paid. Evaluations reported
delays in payment in many
locations.
5. Selection of projects/activities.  Communities will be enabled to  Over time communities should be
Again, in theory these are to be  draw up a shelf of projects whose  enabled to develop capacity to
community assets, and in principle  benefits percolate to the  draw a shelf of projects whose
communities are responsible for  community as a whole, such as  benefits percolate to the community
their maintenance. Road        rehabilitation of schools,     as a whole.
construction is one most common  afforestation, soil conservation
activity, though recently water  and related environmental
harvesting projects have been  protection activities, water
undertaken in almost all locations.  harvesting. However, the assets
In reality, the selected projects are  created/rehabilitated will
not necessarily "community     necessarily have to be communal
assets", and communities in general assets, and no activity will be
are unwilling to maintain assets for  permitted on individually owned
free because that activity could be  or cultivated lands.
available the following year under
the same public works activity; so
rehabilitation (maintenance) is
deferred. In some instances,
activities are "suggested" from the
Regions, "endorsed" by
communities and then taken up by
woredas for implementation.
6. Labor intensity. One major  To ensure full utilization of the  While there is no good practice
limitation of past workfare    current norm of 80% of food aid  "norm" for labor intensity,
programs has been that most    for workfare activity, and also to  gradually moving towards 60-70%
projects are implemented mostly  ensure better quality and    appears feasible for Ethiopia over a
with labor inputs. The main reason  productivity of workfare activity,  5 to 7 year horizon. However,
for this is the lack of financial  it is important to combine food  maintaining labor intensity at very
provision (budget line item) at the  (wage) component with non-food, high levels (close to 90% or above,
woreda level to complement labor  non-wage component. Cash    as at present) is most likely to lead
input with other essential non-labor made available to woredas from  to poor quality of assets and overall
inputs. As a result, evaluations  the Emergency Credit will enable  waste of resources.
have shown that in most locations,  non-wage component to be at
workfare often degenerated into  least 20 percent of the total cost,
"free food" distribution; in yet  and thus enable building of
other locations workers would  productive communal assets that
simply show up for attendance.  would reduce vulnerability to
drought in the medium-run.
7. Integration with other woreda-  Selection from a wide range of  Workfare programs need to be
level development projects. Very  projects from schools to agro-  integrated with woreda level
little. This has by far been the  forestry and water conservation  budget, and even if food
weakest aspect of public works  will ensure proper coordination  component comes of donor
programs in the country.       and integration of efforts with  contributions, the non-wage
37



Workfare Program Design
Present features and moves towards international eood practice
woreda-level development.     components should have a line item
in the woreda budgets, and
community-selected projects need
to be rendered harmonious with
______________________________                                 woreda development programs.
8. Impacts. There is no doubt that  Provision of critical minimum  It is important to develop capacity
food-wage-based workfare       non-wage cash component will   at the woreda/Region level to
program for the able-bodied    enable better quality assets  assess the impact of workfare
(though it often degenerated into  bringing significant benefits to  programs. Things to assess: cost-
free food) combined with the   communities apart from effecting  effectiveness, size of transfer
stipulated free food for those who  transfer benefits.        benefits, and the extent of
cannot work, has saved lives during                           stabilization benefits, and targeting
emergencies like the drought, but                             outcomes.
no other tangible impacts were to
be seen in most locations.
Exceptions are where NGOs have
taken a special interest and
implemented the program
effectively - but these initiatives
are only in a few woredas.
9. Sustainability. Even where   Sustainability can be ensured only  Workfare programs should not be
assets have been created by EGS,  when EGS activity is used not  run as "stop-go" programs
maintenance proved problematic  only for creating new assets, but  depending on weather shocks and
after the termination of the project,  also for maintenance of assets  donor contributions (as at present).
largely because these were not an  (roads, schools, etc.) This will  Such an ad hoc approach will not
integral part of the woreda-level  need to be ensured in a revamped  lead to creation of domestic (in-
developmental activities and, as  EGS. Non-wage cash component  house) capacity to execute the
such, failed to obtain funds for  needed for maintenance of assets  program effectively. Work fare
maintenance.                   need to be provided in woreda  program should become an integral
budgets.                      part of the development at all
levels, expanding and contracting
at different locations and different
times during the year, so that the
program becomes an effective
consumption- smoothing safety net
contributing to a reduction in the
vulnerability of the poor to weather
and other covariate shocks.
38



Schedule H
Nutrition and Supplemental Feeding
Ethiopia has the highest level of child malnutrition in Africa; the incidence of underweight children has
been consistently around 45 percent over the last decade, much larger than the average incidence of 33
percent underweight children in Sub Saharan Africa in the nineties. Similarly, surveys in Ethiopia have
persistently found more than half the children under five stunted, an indicator of chronic malnutrition.
Stunting rates in these surveys often attaining more than 60 percent. By way of comparison the average
prevalence of children stunted for 19 Sub Saharan African countries in the mid-nineties was 39 percenl..
The current drought clearly exacerbates this situation. Many woreda level assessments iindicate that rates
of acute malnutrition are increasing, often exceeding 20% of the children, again far higher then the levels
observed in previous welfare monitoring surveys.
Malnutrition reflects a nexus of food access, health care, and child care. All three of these are affected by
the drought; compounding the overall food shortage, child health is placed fit greater risk due to the
shortage of water and the increase time burdens on care givers attendant to coping with the drought. GoE
response includes the provision of a ration of supplementary food - imported corn-soy-blend (CSB) or
locally produced mixes such as Famix and Unimix. Standard practice is to provide 15(0 gms per child per
day or 4.5 kilos a month. Ideally this is to be targeted to children found to be malnourished in the course
of screening or to pregnant and lactating women.
The most pressing problem with this distribution is the shortage of appropriate formulas leading to breaks
in distribution. Donations to the WFP have been insufficient to meet the expected distribution of between
10,000 and 16,000 tons a months, although the WFP reports increased pledges of CSB in recent weeks.
In addition, while the DPPC plans to purchase up to 3,000 tons of Famnix (and has budgeted 1 8M birr) the
factories that produce Famix and Unimix are working at capacity. Beyond the issue of aggregate
availability, efficient distribution of supplementary foods requires a targeting mechanism. Not all
woredas have conducted a nutritional survey and most that have done so still do not have the capacity for
individual screening.
It is also reported that households do not target this food on young children. This form of sharing within
a household is commonly observed, albeit difficult to quantify. It is not clear why households that receive
both 12.5 kilos of grain per capita as well as supplementary foods would share the supplementary food
among the family while the grain supply remains available. It is more likely that this would happen if the
household receives only supplementary foods (one woreda visited during assessment reported that the two
categories of recipients do not necessarily overlap). It is also likely that a household would reduce the
quantity of regular food provided to the child so that the supplementary food would not all be an addition
to the total intake of the child. Yet, even in this case, the quality of the child's diet may still be more
appropriate for growth than if the supplement were unavailable.
However, international experience indicates that the provision of supplements alone is less likely to have
a positive impact on child nutrition than if the distribution is accompanied by nutritional counseling that
explains the proper preparation of the supplement, the age appropriate quantities and timing of meals, and
other aspects of child care. Ideally, such counseling can also ensure that the child is up to date on
inoculations and that he or she has received vitamin A and, where required, dewormning medicines.
Few woredas have experience in such counseling, except where NGOs such as Concern and Save the
Children have set up capacity. Even in many woredas where NGOs are active in food distribution the
NGOs have not been able to establish a program for individual child screening and care giver counseling.
Any improvements in local capacity for either of these activities would not only assist in drought
response but also in establishing the base for investment in child nutrition.
39



Schedule H -- Table 1: Evolution of child malnutrition in Ethiopia from 1983-2000
% children stunted '"                 % children underweight '"                 % children wasted "
Period 2) 3)              1983   1992  19964) 1997   1998  20004) 1983   1992   1996  1997   1998  2000   1983   1992   1996  1997   1998  2000
Sex child
Male                       61    66     67     71     56    58      -     -      49    48     45    46     9      9      8      9     10    10
Female                     59     63    64     64     54    55      -     -      45    45     40    44     8      7      7      7     8      9
Residence
Urban                       -     -     58     55     41    44      -     -      34    37     30    27      -     -      6      9     8      6
Rural                      60     64    67     69     56    58      -     -      48    48     44    47     8      8      8      8     9      10
Region
Tigray                     -      -     73     76     58    57      -     -      55    54     53    53      -     -      9     10     14     12
Affar                      -      -     48     61     57    42      -     -      45    34     31    29      -     -      18     8     10    11
Amhara                     -      -     73     75     65    65      -     -      55    51     49    53      -     -      9      8     10    11
Oromiya                    -      -     60     62     50    54      -     -      39    42    38     40      -     -      8      7     8      9
Somali                     -      -     60     65     45    48            -      45    58    40     37      -            3     10     10     12
Benshangul-Gumuz           -      -     59     63     51    51      -            46    44    46     44      -     -      9      4     14     12
S.N.N.P.                   -      -     68     66     57    56      -     -      49    48    40     46      -     -      6      7     7      9
Gambela                     -     -     36     48     48    41      -     -      31    40     40    32      -     -      8     12     8      13
Harari                      -     -     54     58     38    47      -     -      29    30     21    28      -     -      5      7     5      5
Addis Ababa                -      -     46     52     33    37      -     -      23    33     19    18      -     -      5      9     4      5
Dire Dawa                  -      -     49     65     34    40      -            38    40     27    31      -     -      14     7     10     12
Education female adult
no formal education        -      -     67     69     57     -      -     -      49    48     45     -      -     -      8      8     10     -
some primary education     -      -     60     62     49     -      -     -      38    44     35     -      -     -      6      8     9      -
some post primary education  -    -     48     51     38     -      -     -      26    32     24     -      -     -      5      8     6      -
Total                      60     64    66     67     55    57      -     -      47    47     43    45     8      8      8      8     9      10
1) stunted = height-for-age z score < -2; underweight= weight-for-age z score < -2; wasted = weight-for height z score < -2.
2) 1983 nutrition survey covered about 9,000 children across all rural areas except Tigray; 1992 nutrition survey covers more than 20,000 children across all rural areas; the
1995/96, 1997, 1998, and 1999/2000 Welfare Monitoring Surveys cover about 6,000, 8,000, 29,000, and 15,000 children respectively.
33 1983 and 1992 surveys comprise 6-59 months old children, the other surveys 3-59 months old children.
4) 1996 and 2000 figures based on 1" and 2nd round of the WMS (June 1995/ January 1996, and June 1999/January 2000 respectively)
Source: CSA, Rural Nutrition Survey, 1983; CSA, Rural Nutrition Survey, 1992; CSA, Health and Nutrition Survey, 1998; CSA, Welfare Monitoring Surveys, 1995/96, 97, and
1999/2000.
40



Schedule I
Detailed Project Description
Component 1: Community interventions
Objective The community interventions component is to protect productive communal and private
assets, prevent child malnutrition, and avert drought induced school dropouls. The component seeks to
improve coping capabilities and protect productive assets of drought affected populations so as to enable
them to recover their productive capacity following the emergency period. This would be accomplished
by enhancing the effectiveness of existing food aid programs in drought affected areas, in rehabilitation or
creation of community infrastructure, and provision of nutrition programs, or incentives to education. The
project will work with ongoing Employment Generation Scheme and Gratuitous Relief programs
managed by the Woreda government and supported by food aid.
Rationale: The community interventions component attempts to mitigate three long tenn effects of the
drought: increased vulnerability due to loss of economic productivity, adverse health impacts due to
nutrition deficits and reduction of human capital caused by school dropouts. The productive capacities of
communities are depleted by the drought in two ways: immediate reduction in crop or livestock
production, which dramatically lowers current income, and reliance on coping mechanisms such as
selling livestock or other assets, that render households less able to generate income in the future. As a
result, vulnerability increases in the short and long term. Although the drought affected may receive
survival assistance through income transfers such as food aid, the long term problem of asset depletion
can lead to greater vulnerability. The growing number of chronically food insecure individuals (now
estimated at 4 - 5 million) is an indication that more households experience long term vulnerability and
are slipping into destitution.
Malnutrition reflects a nexus across food access, health care, and child care, all three of which have
been affected by the drought. In addition, child health is placed at greater risk due to the shortage of vvater
and the increased time burdens on care givers attendant to coping with the drought. With the relatively
high GAM rates found in drought affected areas, malnutrition represents a growing threat, especially
among those highly vulnerable to nutrition deficits - the very young as well as pregnant or lactating
women. Treating cases of very severe acute malnutrition requires costly therapeutic feeding, can result in
devastating health impacts or death, and ultimately slows the recovery process. Preventing such an
outcome can save resources as well as lives.
Net primary school enrolments in rural areas of most regions in Ethiopia are in the range of 25-30 % and
attendance often falls further during periods of drought due to demands for child labor as well as the
effects of hunger. Girls enrolment is particularly vulnerable - the national ratio of girls to boys
enrolment in primary and secondary school is only 61 %. School feeding is often proposed as a means to
address drought related enrolment problems and is currently supported by WFP in some 600 schools.
However, such programs incur high recurrent costs which the Ministry of Education views as
unsustainable and, in light of the need for substantial investments in infrastructure, they may not be good
candidates for counter-cyclical programs. A possible alternative to achieve many of the same objectives
would be food (or cash) for education grants that are conditional on school attendance using similar
mechanisms as are currently applied to the targeting of free food distribution.
Construction or Rehabilitation of Communal Assets:
The availability of cash for community interventions will allow drought affected communities to initiate
and implement their own development agenda, target recovery efforts more effectively and allow greater
success in completion and maintenance of selected assets. The Community asset building activities that
41



are part of EGS are supported by government policy but ineffectively implemented due to lack of
complementing cash or material resources. In practice, activities that are easiest to implement given
resource, material, or technical expertise constraints have been the norm, and are primarily those that rely
solely on community labor resources. Because projects become make-work activities rather than
community investments or elements of Woreda development plans, many project activities are never
completed nor maintained. Improving public workfare programs by providing cash to be used for
purchase of materials, technical assistance or additional labor, would enable more effective and targeted
rehabilitation activities - resulting in projects that more truly reflect community needs.
Building on EGS (see Schedule G), the project would provide cash to complement, support and improve
the development impact of the activities currently supported using payment (in food) for labour. The
project will fund community based activities in 30-35 Woredas. Disbursement to affected communities
would be against an accepted project proposal from the community. Specific community interventions
will first take the form of a project proposal to be carried out by the community and will identify
objectives, timing for implementation, resource requirements, community contributions and design
parameters. Acceptance and implementation of the project proposal will be summarized in a simple
contract signed between the community and Woreda Government, and will provide the basis for Bank
disbursement against a community grant. Community grants amounts will be based on the number of
affected households in the community.. Grants to communities will be allocated against a menu of public
works and only include investments for community and Government owned or managed infrastructure.
The project will also provide cash to finance additional materials needed to enable projects to address a
broad range of community needs, provide supplemental labor payments or to contract in technical
assistance. A comprehensive menu of public works will focus on: materials for reconstruction of roads,
community schools and linked sanitation and water facilities, communal ponds, communal irrigation or
water harvesting systems, or other infrastructure of common use.
Woreda government will work with communities to complete the selected activity by: facilitating the
community in identifying objectives, activities, timing for implementation, resource requirements,
community contributions, and design parameters. In cases where Woreda Government lacks any of these
functions, contracted organizations or individuals are to be used to complete implementation.
Process indicators such as number of community grants and projects completed will be used to assess
success, as will outcome indicators such as prevention of asset loss (sale of livestock, distressed
migration).
Targeted Nutrition
The nutrition sub-component seeks to prevent malnutrition among small children and pregnant or
lactating women in the drought affected population. Supplementary food provision should prevent further
deterioration in health status of vulnerable populations and enable faster recovery from nutrition deficits.
Malnutrition reflects a nexus of food access, health care, and child care, all three of which have been
affected by the drought (see Schedule H). . In addition, child health is placed at greater risk due to the
shortage of water and the increased time burdens on care givers attendant to coping with the drought.
With the relatively high GAM rates found in drought affected areas, malnutrition represents a growing
threat, especially among those highly vulnerable to nutrition deficits - the very young as well as pregnant
or lactating women. Treating cases of very severe acute malnutrition requires costly therapeutic feeding,
can result in devastating health impacts or death, and ultimately slows the recovery process. Preventing
such an outcome can be save resources as well as lives.
Government and donor response to prevent acute malnutrition includes the provision of a ration of
supplementary food - impo. ed corn-soy-blend (CSB) or locally produced mixes such as Famix and
42



Unimix. Standard practice is to provide 150 gins per child per day or 4.5 kilos a month tLrgeted to
children found to be malnourished in the course of screening. Although it is likely that households reduce
the quantity of regular food provided to the child so that the supplementary food would not all be an
addition to the total intake of the child, the quality of the child's diet may still be more appropriate for
growth than if the supplement were unavailable.
The most pressing problem with supplementary food provision among the drought affected is the
shortage of appropriate formulas. Donations to the WFP have been insufficient to meet the expected
distribution of between 10,000 and 16,000 tons a month and DPCC lacks resource to purchase large
amounts locally. Provision of supplementary food to Woredas receiving the cash grant sub-component of
the EDRP would fill a critical gap in drought recovery efforts and maintain nutritional stattus in the most
vulnerable populations.
The sub-component will complement food aid distribution associated with the Gratuitous Relief program
and finance the inclusion of supplementary enriched food targeted at small children and pregnant and
lactating women. It will permit funding to claose the gap between the donations received and the
requireemtns to provide an additional 4.5 kg/per month of supplementary food (Famix, Unimix, or CSB)
will be allocated to each eligible individual receiving food aid through DPCC or donor agencies.
Distribution to affected populations will be organized by DPPC, who will receive the allocation of
supplementary food at the federal level and distribute along with normal food aid deliveries.
However, international experience indicates that the provision of supplements alone is less likely to have
a positive impact on child nutrition than if the distribution is accompanied by nutritional education
regarding the proper preparation of the supplement, the age appropriate quantities and timing of meals,
and other aspects of child care. The project will fund mass media or other nutritional education programs
to complement the provision of the supplementary food.
Nutritional data gathered through DPPC and other surveys will be the primary indicator used.
School Attendance Promotion
The school attendance program is aimed at maintaining school enrolment in drought afficted through
provision of cash or food transfers to drought affected families in return for school attendance by girl
children.
Net primary school enrolments in rural areas of most regions in Ethiopia are in the range, of 25-30 % and
attendance often falls further during periods of drought due to demands for child labor as well as the
effects of hunger. Girls enrolment is particularly vulnerable - the national ratio of girls to boys
enrolment in primary and secondary school is only 61 %. School feeding is often proposed as a means to
address drought related enrolment problems and is currently supported by WFP in some 600 schools.
However, such programs incur high recurrent costs which the Ministry of Education views as
unsustainable and, in light of the need for substantial investments in infrastructure, they may not be good
candidates for counter-cyclical programs. A possible alternative to achieve many of the same objectives
would be food (or cash) for education grants that are conditional on school attendance using similar
mechanisms as are currently applied to the targeting of free food distribution.
Human resource assets represent the long term future of rural development in Ethiopia and efforts to
encourage school attendance have received little attention in much of Ethiopia's food security efforts.
Although one significant contributor to school drop out - internal migration - is not likely to be affected
by school based programs, successful general relief efforts should mitigate this factor. School grants for
enrolment represent an effective medium term response to the impact of drought on eduicational
attainment.
43



The WFP manages a pilot project in pastoral areas that provides four liters of cooking oil every two
months to girls who attend at least 80% of school days in a given period as certified by a teacher. The
project will fund an extension of this project to schools in Somali and Afar regions regardless of whether
the schools currently have a school meal program. WFP will serve as advisors to the GoE and thus create
capacity in the administration and procurement issues necessary for such a project.
Component 2: Ouick disbursing assistance
Objective: The quick disbursing component will finance key economic inputs through a positive list of
imports. Such financing will enable Government to respond to the drought emergency by providing
foreign exchange and counterpart revenue for use in the Government's drought recovery efforts. This will
also prevent re-direction of public investment away from the long term poverty reduction program.
Rationale: Ethiopia's recent macroeconomic gains are threatened by the drought, which will not only
increase public expenditures, but lower economic growth. As noted above, the Government's revised
macroeconomic forecast anticipates large increases in government expenditures and a worsening trade
deficit. According to the IMF, Ethiopia has only recently doubled its international reserves from 2 to 4
months of imports and importation of drought relief and recovery materials - food, fertilizer, seeds,
medicines and transportation equipment - will require scarce foreign exchange. Much of the international
response to the emergency is in the form of food aid with relatively little allocated to non-food assistance.
This component will allow Government to maintain a supply of critical economic inputs for recovery
efforts by providing finance for imports.
The 2002/2003 drought has also put greater stress on the Government's Development Budget by
increasing public expenditure requirements. Social spending in Ethiopia has risen consistently in past
years and accounted for 22.6 percent of all total government expenditures in 2001. This was a substantial
increase over previous years and reflected the Government's renewed commitment to poverty reduction.
However, the human development and poverty reduction agenda may be jeopardized by drought relief
requirements as it was during the emergency caused by war with Eritrea - when social expenditures
dropped from a high of 24 percent of total expenditures in 1996/1997 to 16 percent in 1999/2000. (IMF,
2002) Defending human development expenditures will be key to maintaining the human resource asset
base necessary for Ethiopia's long term development.
Description: The quick disbursing component will finance a positive list of imports (Schedule A) that
includes a list of items essential to support the recovery of the economy, and of the agriculture sector in
particular. The imports financed on Government's account and the counterpart generated from private
sector imports will be used to support the national Emergency Drought Recovery Program. Retroactive
financing of up to 20 percent of the total will be allowed for purchases posted after December 7th 2002.
Key performance indicators: The outcomes envisaged by the component - defense of Government's
social expenditures and stable supply of critical inputs - will be measured by price data and sectoral
shares of government budget allocations.
Component 3: Project Manacement
The project coordination, monitoring and study component will support implementation of components 1
and 2 with the additional objective of contributing to the policy dialogue that surrounds food security and
safety net programs in Ethiopia. Program monitoring and funded technical studies should develop greater
understanding of food security and vulnerability issues as well as the role of a medium term response to
drought crises.
44



The Government's Food Security Program is at the center of efforts to link development and relief
activities with EGS as its primary instrument. International best practice in public workfare schemes show
large differences with Ethiopia's EGS version, primarily in targeting criteria, selection of activities,
implementation arrangements, participation norms, and wage rates. Further study on public workfare
programs in the Ethiopian context could inform Government and donor activities in this area. Other
aspects of vulnerability reduction - community targeting, nutrition, school attendance - are also
important to broadening the policy debate and contributing to the greater success of current and future
drought recovery projects.
The emergency nature of the project necessitates quick implementation and administration of the project.
Technical support is particularly necessary, as the community project activities envisioned in the
community intervention sub-component will likely require expertise not available at the Kebele or
Woreda level. Design of irrigation systems, water harvesting structures, and road or building construction
may be required and exceed local capacity.
Funding support will be provided to staff and administer the project managenment unit, training of Woreda
government in project implementation, technical expertise for community project activities, creation of
amonitoring and evaluation system, and studies on food security and vulnerability reduction.
45



Schedule G
List of Woredas to be Included in the Proiect
No.           Name of Woreda                    Zone
I.     Regional State of Amhara
1.           East Belesa                       North Gonder
2.            West Belesa                      North Gonder
3.            Aderkay                          North Gonder
4.            Wadela                           North Wello
5.            Meket                            North Wello
6.            Dahna                            North Wello
7.            Albko                             Wagmira
8.            Legambo                           South Wello
9.            Tehuledare                        South Wello
10.          Artuma Farsi                      Oromiya
11.          Jile Temuga                       Oromiya
12.          Asagrt                            North Shewa
13.          Dabark                            North Gonder
14.          Libo                              South Gonder
II.           Reaional State of SNNPR
1.           Badawoch                          Hadiya
2.            Lamo                              Hadiya
3.            Borch                             Sidama
4.            Maskan                            Gurage
5.            Omo Sheleko                       Kembata Tembaro
III.          Afar Regional State
1.           Artuma                            Zone 5
IV.           Somali Re!ional State
1.           Ayisha                            Shinile
V.            Re2ional State of Oromiva
1.           Babile                             East Hararghe
2.            Miesso                            West Hararghe
3.            Gursum                            East Hararghe
4.            Kurfachele                        East Hararghe
VI.           Tigray Regional State
1.           Ahferom
2.            Adet Nacder
3.            Raya Azebo
4.            Wore Leke
5.            Kola Tembien
6.            T/Adiabo
7.            Tselemti
8.            Alemata
9.            Mereb-Leke
10.          Endamokoni
46



MAP SECTION






IBRD 32286
Khrlsoum                    3                                 Asmoro              -_       RsJ      a                          _                                    ETHIOPIA
-15 \ TIGRAY AND AMHARA REGIONS:                                                          a    d duE to fd soRt EAAFARdREGON786,200  1  EMERGENCY  DROUGHT           RECOVERY           PROJECT
800,000 end 3,300,000 ffeced                                                              rratic long Lrainsk died  d        DROUGHT-AFFECTED POPULATION REQUIRING ASISTANCE, 2003
Idue to delayed main ro'ns.                                                                Siu'to   Lietc die and_< 
Situtation: Sroshrvest cutbacks                                                            are_  s                                                        NMBER OFyENEFIiIAIESss200
and food shortage projected from                           ir                             numbers on, human health is                                    NUMBER O            , 00
5December 2002 into 2003                                         -     ~    ,deteriorating. Competition for                                                      720OC 000 a I000,000
u;                                                                  r                 !                 _  ' , _ scarce water and groazing                             500000 Ia 750s000
sit                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~250,000 to 500,000
~~~~~~~~yS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100,000 t 250,000
_ U    DA       N                                                                                                                                                0 t,  I 00 _ C ,' 000,D R
  NATIONAL CAFITALS
----ZONE BOUNDARIES
STATE/REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~~~~~~  /W. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JB0                                                                           100       200       300       40O        500
KI[OMETERS
7)    Metekel      g     A ew                                                                                             t t -s5Go1c  Thipo p,roduced by ise. MapOPi-n Uns, t rho Wod tn
Meiekel                                                                                 T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h. b-daries, e-ter, deesieieead anahr nonis -sla
\.~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           an~~~~~~~~~~~~~, stnp da not-piy, an the pert dFTh.e Wertdfiak Grap. any
BENESH         NGUL         Aw                                                                                                      ud.-er ah.n st- oleptaros at any r Yern -y. -ora dor=nk orD
C   I  rA  I              17 Si ,' ( t E             *                         fSOMALI REGION: 1,028,900  o  llej
Tongo Sp.a |                             St 'la                                                          J igao  'K            estimated to be affect-d in Fie and
F                                                              a               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  Shinile due to poor rains aed
We*     ARARI       ,'       including IDP caseload from       SOMALIA
-                                           ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1999/2000. So far 337,000 in
/ i      ArlWIM      fl                                           *                       Shinile and 264,000 in Jiijigo zone.
- *   _   \_ G-  t   F   * / I kz l C 1 ;1                   _                  Other areas of Somal, Region are still
Illubabor                                                                                                ne   seset
'Thre e  sllubobor                     'p                                                                           Degehabur    Situtotion. Most affected are Shinile
Fnd Filrezonaesdunto beleow normal  7
(~~GAM8ELL4                        u ireqe                                              'V                       hart raies ae~~~A-sid poor main rains.
~Four  'keficr' t-I }d a >                                                                                                                 /
S itFurl.  5hekiccho   .; - 1-  *        . ---                      B          /   fl -          \           Warder
2  >_-  \ t ss~tDaw                     _                       F            |--__ -          S      M A L I                        o/                                 C     A
Bench*n F> Korche/ 
SNNPR: 1,114,700 affected due to  s        0                  Burji            0._- r;                        Afder                            /
-   stunted staple and cosh crops, poor  I.
small rains, intermittent dry speils                                                                       OROMIYA REGION 3,110,900       /
unfavorable production and market 7                 Konso                                                  affected due to stunted staple and
conditions and deloaedmainroms.                                      Boren1                                cashcrops,poorsmallrains,
Situtation: Long cycle crops,                                                                              intermittentdryspells unfavorable
especially maize and sorghum, have                                                                             Y    main
failed in most areas of this surplus                                                          V                   monArsi, S     Bae East
producing part of Ethiopia.         _     Lake      N                               ''       \.-    ''-    Situhtton Arsi Shewa Bale East
Turkona                                                            and West Harerghe lowlands
-  "N                    \-----'-m.,                                 *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~experience shortfall of rain, draught,
(                _                   ~                   U                      /       stunted crops and unusual pOstoral
UGANDA                 'x tI;o-                     K   E   N    Y   A                     1O / and former migratio An.
-FEBRUARY 20OS









IMAGING
Report No.: T       7577   ET
Type:     TAN



