Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H028 ET 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Emergency Drought Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 8, 2003 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H028 ET 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 8, 2003, between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Recipient, dated 
November 27, 2002, describing a program designed to address the Emergency (as 
hereinafter defined) (the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program; 
(B) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement which forms part of the Program has 
requested the Association to assist in: (i) the financing of the Project; and (ii) supporting 
the Program during the execution thereof; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01.(a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) 
below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I 
(ii) Article 
II 
(iii) Section 
3.01 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.05 and 4.06; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(v) Article 
V 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) Article 
VIII 
(viii) Article 
IX 
(ix) Article 
X 
(x) 
Article XI ; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Borrower” wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
Recipient; 
(ii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement” wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement; 
(iii) 
the term “Credit” and “credit” wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant; and 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “
Birr
”
means the currency of the Recipient; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary Community” means a CBO (as hereinafter defined), special 
interest group, or group of individuals of a particular community within a 
Woreda
 (as 
hereinafter defined) inside the 
Afar, Amhara, Oromia, SNNPR, Somali, 
and 
Tigray 
Page  4
-
3
-
regions of the Recipient’s territory to whom a Community Grant (as hereinafter defined) 
is made, or proposed to be made, under Part A of the Project; 
 
(c) 
“Community Based Organization” and “CBO” (as hereinafter defined) 
mean a group of individuals of a particular community in the Recipient's territory which 
is responsible for the development of a Community Subproject (as hereinafter defined) 
for the carrying out of community public works or specific social activities in, 
inter alia
,
road rehabilitation, water catchment protection, water harvesting and storage, education, 
health and nutrition-related programs, and which is the recipient of a Community Grant 
(as hereinafter defined) for the financing of such Community Subproject; 
 
(d) 
“Community Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by a 
Woreda
 (as hereinafter defined) to a Beneficiary Community through a Community 
Grant Agreement for the financing of a Community Subproject (as hereinafter defined) 
under Part A of the Project
,
utilizing proceeds of the Grant made available by the 
Recipient to the Regions for the benefit of eligible communities of affected 
Woredas
;
(e) 
“Community Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between a 
Woreda 
(as hereinafter defined) and a Beneficiary Community for the purpose 
of carrying out a Community Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part A of the 
Project; 
(f) 
“Community Subproject” means a specific project in: (i) infrastructure 
rehabilitation or the carrying out of other public civil works in, 
inter alia, 
water 
catchment protection, water harvesting and storage, and (ii) delivery of basic social 
services in, 
inter alia
,
health, nutrition and education;  
(g) 
“Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Desk” and “DPPD” mean a 
Woreda 
level office of the Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission established 
under MRD (as hereinafter defined); 
(h) 
“Emergency” means the humanitarian crisis caused by a climatic drought 
event occurring in certain areas of the Recipient’s territory, which could not be 
satisfactorily responded to solely by using the Recipient’s coping mechanisms, and about 
which a Joint United Nations/Ethiopia appeal to the international community for 
assistance was launched on December 7, 2002; 
(i) 
“Environmental Management Plan” and “EMP” mean the plan for 
mitigating adverse environmental consequences arising from the implementation of 
Project activities, to be prepared by the Recipient, satisfactory to the Association, and as 
further referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(j) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Recipient's fiscal year beginning July 8 
and ending July 7 of the next calendar year; 
(l) 
“Food Security Department” and “FSD” mean the department inside 
MRD (as hereinafter defined) in charge of monitoring the activities of PMU (as 
hereinafter defined) under the Project; 
(m) 
“MOFED” means the Recipient's Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Development; 
(n) 
“MRD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Rural Development; 
(o) 
“NBE” means the National Bank of Ethiopia, the Recipient’s central 
bank; 
(p) 
“NGO” means a Non-Governmental Organization established and 
operating pursuant to the laws of the Recipient; 
(q) 
“Project Operation Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 
6.01 (c) of this Agreement consisting of different modules setting out respectively, 
inter 
alia
,
the administrative, financial, accounting, procurement and disbursement procedures 
for the Project; the eligibility criteria for: (i) Beneficiary Communities (ii)
 
Community 
Subprojects under Part A of the Project, and all other activities and arrangements to be 
used for the purpose of implementing the Project, to be adopted by the Recipient not later 
than the Effective Date, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Project Operation Manual; 
(r) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, established within FSD of 
MRD for the management and coordination of project activities, including the financial 
and procurement aspects thereof; 
(s) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
(t) 
“Project Year” and “PY” mean each twelve month period during Project 
implementation starting from the day after the Effective Date, and each subsequent 
twelve month period thereafter, until completion of the Project; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(u) 
“
Region
,
Woreda
,
and
 Kebele
”
mean either an administrative area within 
the Recipient’s territory as defined in the Recipient’s Constitution or different local 
government levels within the Recipient’s territory established and operating pursuant to 
the relevant Regional Constitutions; 
(v) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” and “RPF” mean the policy 
framework for the resettlement of persons potentially displaced on account of Project 
implementation, to be prepared by the Recipient, satisfactory to the Association, as 
further referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(w) 
“Public Sector Imports” means the acquisition of goods in foreign 
currency to be imported into the territory of the Recipient, as carried out by all branches 
and levels of the Recipient’s administration, including line ministries and non 
autonomous public agencies; 
(x) 
“Private Sector Imports” means the acquisition of goods in foreign 
currency to be imported into the territory of the Recipient, as carried out by the private 
enterprises inside the territory of the Recipient, including financially autonomous State-
owned enterprises established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s commercial 
legislation; 
(y) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
(z) 
“Vulnerable Groups” or “VG” means people living in the Recipient's 
territory and determined to be the most vulnerable in terms of poverty and food 
insecurity, pursuant to criteria defined in the Project Operation Manual, including 
women, youths and other socially marginalized groups; and 
(aa) “
Woreda Council
 ” means the council established within a
 Woreda
 and 
responsible for the approval of eligible Community Subprojects. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to forty three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 43,500,000) (the Grant). 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.02 (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant, and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to 
be paid) by a 
Woreda
 
on
account of withdrawals made for the benefit of Beneficiary 
Communities under Community Grant Agreements, to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for Community Subprojects, to be financed under Part A of the 
Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in NBE. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association:  (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.  
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
respective rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The respective rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on February 15 
and August 15 in each year. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III  
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
technical, administrative agricultural, health and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03 For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of Project’s objectives, and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04 Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project, shall: 
(a) 
open and maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account (the Project 
Account) in 
Birr
 in NBE, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into the Project Account, in 
an amount equivalent to 
Birr
 858,000 to finance the Recipient’s contribution to the 
Project; 
 
(c) 
thereafter deposit into the Project Account by
 
September 1st
 
in each 
Fiscal Year during Project implementation such amount as shall be required to timely 
replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the initial deposit referred to in 
paragraph (b) above; and 
 
(d) 
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project in addition to those financed from 
the proceeds of the Grant. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and thereafter maintain and cause 
to be maintained, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts, and the 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
Page  10
-
9
-
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant Account, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event, namely, that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has established the accounting and financial management 
system for the Project referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association;  
(b) 
the Recipient has opened the Project Account pursuant to Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement and has deposited therein the initial deposit referred to in Section 
3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
(c) 
the Recipient has adopted the Project Operation Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(d) 
the Recipient has staffed PMU with key personnel having experience and 
qualifications satisfactory to the Association, including: (i) a Project Coordinator, (ii) a 
Financial Management Officer, and (iii) a Procurement Officer, and has employed them 
all in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development of the 
Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Minister of Finance and Economic Development 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
P.O. Box 1905 
Addis Ababa 
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
21147 
  251-1-551355 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
By 
 
/s/ Kassahun Ayele 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa Region 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant and the amounts of the 
Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Eligible Imports  
31,500,000 
100% of foreign 
 
required for Part B of 
 
expenditures 
 
the Project as specified 
 
 
 
in the Annex to this 
 Schedule 
 
(2) 
Goods, vehicles and 
200,000 
100% of foreign 
 equipment 
 
expenditures, 
and 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services, 
720,000 
100% of foreign 
 
training and audits 
 
expenditures, 85% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(4) 
Community Subprojects 
10,500,000 
100 % of amounts 
 
disbursed 
 
(5) Operating 
Costs 
200,000 
85% 
 
(6) Unallocated 
380,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 43,500,000 
 
======== 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and  
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office administration 
costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs, salaries of locally contracted 
employees, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient's civil service. 
3
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of :  
(a)  payments made for expenditures under Category (1):  
(i) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, 
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
8,700,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after December 7, 2002;  
(ii) 
for goods supplied under a contract which any international 
financing institution or agency other than the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit 
or grant; 
(iii) 
in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to 50% of the 
amount allocated to such Category for any class of eligible 
imports specified in the Annex to this Schedule, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree; and 
(iv) 
for goods intended for military or paramilitary purposes, 
luxury consumption and used goods. 
(b) 
payments for expenditures under Category (4), unless at least a minimum 
of 2 Community Grant Agreements shall have been entered into between a Beneficiary 
Community and a 
Woreda
,
in accordance with the procedures, terms and conditions 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and set forth in detail in the Project Operation 
Manual, as shall be evidenced by the first such 2 Community Grant Agreements 
furnished to the Association for its prior approval. 
4. 
Expenditures for eligible imports specified in the Annex to this Schedule and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be free from any taxes, duties or 
imposts levied by or in the territory of the Recipient on or in connection with the 
importation or delivery thereof. 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each, (b) services under contracts with consulting firms 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each, and with individual consultants not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent each, (c) grants under Community Grant Agreements, (d) training; 
and (e) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1 
Classes of Eligible Imports to be Financed Under the Project 
1. 
Agricultural equipment and inputs including fertilizers, and excluding pesticides 
and herbicides. 
2. 
Petroleum and fuel products. 
3. Construction 
materials. 
4. 
Transport vehicles and spare parts. 
5. 
Livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies. 
6. 
School supplies and equipment. 
7. 
Medical supplies and equipment. 
8. 
Construction equipment, industrial machinery and spare parts. 
9. 
Electrical equipment, machinery, materials and parts. 
10. 
Industrial raw materials and chemicals. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to respond to the 
Emergency and enable the Recipient to: (i) help affected families to survive the 
Emergency, retain productive assets, and develop sustainable livelihoods, (ii) put in place 
infrastructure and support mechanisms to mitigate the medium term effects of current and 
future drought emergencies on Vulnerable Groups, and (iii) stabilize the macro-economy. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Establishing Coping Mechanisms and Restoring Productive Assets
The provision of Community Grants to Beneficiary Communities for the 
financing of Community Subprojects intended to: (i) carry out, 
inter alia,
 community 
public works; and (ii) contribute to improve delivery of basic social services, notably in 
the health, nutrition and education sectors. 
Part B:
Contributing to Stabilization of Recipient’s Macro-Economy 
The importation of goods specified in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
to support, 
inter alia, 
the stabilization of the macro economy, the provision of basic 
health and social services, the provision of agricultural inputs, and the development of 
rural infrastructure. 
Part C:
Supporting Project Implementation and Management
1. 
supporting the establishment and operation of PMU within FSD of MRD; 
2. 
carrying out: (i) the monitoring of Project implementation and (ii) studies on food 
insecurity in drought prone regions of the Recipient’s territory; 
3. 
building capacity in selected 
Woreda
 staff to administer and implement 
emergency recovery activities. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Grants” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.  
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C and D of this Section, goods for the 
implementation of Parts A and C of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to 
cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.  
Part C
:
Modified International Competitive Bidding
1
Except as otherwise provided in Part B and D of this Section, contracts for goods 
to be procured for the implementation of Part B of the Project, shall be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 of the 
Guidelines. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C: 
(a) 
Commonly traded commodities
Commonly traded commodities described in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with Section 
II paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Public Sector Imports
Except as otherwise provided under paragraph 2 (a) of this Part C, goods 
described in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement and estimated to cost less than 
$750,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Shopping procedures, in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
(c) 
Private Sector Imports
Except as otherwise provided under paragraph 2.(a) of this Part C, goods 
described in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and estimated to cost less than 
$3,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with established commercial practices satisfactory to the Association. 
Part D
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
National or International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of (i) national shopping procedures or (ii) international shopping 
procedures, depending on availability of such goods locally, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which are required to respond to natural disasters, including seeds and 
nutritional supplements may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods may be procured from the United Nations’ Inter-Agency Procurement 
Services Office (IAPSO), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), United Nations 
Office for Project Services (UNOPS) and United Nations Packing & Assembly Center 
(UNIPAC), in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and as set forth in the Project 
Operation Manual. 
6. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Part E
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract procured under international and national 
competitive bidding procedures pursuant to paragraphs B and D of this Section 1, and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first 3 contracts procured under shopping 
procedures and (ii) each contract procured under direct contracting procedures, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
(A) 
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(B) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide 
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(C) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consulta
nts’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and (b) the following provisions of Section II 
of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial audits estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for the implementation of Part A of the Project which are estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
4. 
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by social workers and medical personnel under Part A of 
the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the terms of reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior review and approval.   
(c) 
With respect to:  (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more; (ii) the first 3 contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each, and (iii) each contract for the employment of consultants to be selected on a sole 
source basis, the qualifications, experience, and terms of employment of all such 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The 
contracts shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  The provisions 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Reviews
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2004, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Institutional arrangements
2. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain within FSD of MRD, until the 
completion of the Project, the Project Management Unit which shall report to the Head of 
FSD. The PMU shall consist of a number of key staff, appointed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, including a Project Coordinator, 
a
Financial Management Officer, a Procurement Officer, a Rural Engineer and an Officer 
in charge of Monitoring and Evaluation.  
 
(b) 
The PMU shall be responsible for: (i) the overall coordination regarding 
the implementation of the different Parts of the Project; (ii) the financial management of 
the Project, including the auditing and accounting thereof (iii) the setting-up and 
implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system; (iv) the building of capacity at 
Woreda
 level to administer and manage emergency recovery activities and (v) the 
administrative management of the Project, including procurement activities . 
Page  27
-
26 - 
 
(c) Each 
participating 
Woreda
 shall maintain until completion of the Project 
a
Task Force, comprising the 
Woreda
 rural development officer as chairperson, relevant 
Recipient officials and people in the Vulnerable Groups. Each Participating 
Woreda
,
shall maintain a Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Desk with a 
Woreda
 coordinator, a 
committee and an accountant to supervise disbursements and keep financial records. The 
task Force shall provide guidance and supervision to the relevant DPPD. 
3. 
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain the Project Operation Manual for the 
implementation of Parts A and C of the Project; (ii) take all measures necessary to ensure 
that the Project is carried out in conformity with the Project Operation Manual; and (iii) 
not amend or waive any provision thereof which in the opinion of the Association may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.  
Execution covenants
4. 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association, by December 31, 2003, the 
Environmental Assessment, the associated Environment Management Plan and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework for all Project activities, satisfactory to the Association, 
and shall thereafter implement such Environment Management Plan and Resettlement 
Policy Framework. 
5. 
The Recipient shall: (i) not later than the first year of Project implementation, and 
semiannually thereafter, carry out a review of activities under Part B of the Project; (ii) 
furnish the information from such review to the Association; and (iii) following such 
review act promptly to take all measures identified by such review. 
6. 
The Recipient shall, not later than 6 months after the Effective Date, appoint the 
independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b)(i) of this Agreement with experience 
and qualifications satisfactory to the Association, and shall employ them in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
The Recipient shall, not later than 3 months after the Effective Date, appoint the 
Rural Engineer and the Officer in charge of Monitoring and Evaluation referred to in 
paragraph 2.(a) of this Schedule 4, both with experience and qualifications satisfactory to 
the Association, and shall employ them in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Eligibility criteria for Community Grants 
8. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule 4, no 
Community Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant 
unless a 
Woreda Council 
shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted 
Page  28
-
27 - 
 
by relevant 
Woreda 
staff in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project 
Operation Manual, that the relevant Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in 
the Project Operation Manual, which shall include the following: 
(a) 
the Community Subproject shall be for: (i) the carrying out of civil works 
in infrastructure, including, 
inter alia, 
road rehabilitation, water catchment protection, 
water harvesting and storage and rehabilitation of existing small community managed 
irrigation schemes, and (ii) the improvement of basic social service delivery in, 
inter alia
,
health, nutrition and education; 
(b) 
the Subproject shall be technically appraised by appropriate 
Woreda
 staff 
and approved by a 
Woreda Council
;
and 
(c) 
the Community Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set 
forth in the laws of the Recipient relating to health, safety and environmental protection. 
Terms and conditions of the Community Grants 
9. 
In financing Community Subprojects, 
Woredas
 shall enter into Community Grant 
Agreements with Beneficiary Communities concerned, under terms and conditions which 
shall include the following: 
(a) 
financing shall be on a grant basis, not to exceed $100,000 equivalent per 
grant; 
(b) 
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Community Grant be procured in conformity with the provisions set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the Project Operation Manual and that such 
goods works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Community 
Subproject; 
(c) 
the right of the 
Woreda 
to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, the goods, works, sites, plants and constructions included in the Community 
Subproject, the operation thereof and any record or relevant document; and 
(d) 
the right of the 
Woreda 
to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary Community to use the proceeds of the Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary 
Community to perform any of its obligations under the Community Grant Agreement. 
 
Page  29
-
28 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (2) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account allocated to Categories (2) through (5) plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 3,500,000.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
Page  30
-
29 - 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
Page  31
-
30 - 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  32
-
31 - 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the performance indicators to be used for 
Project implementation are as follows: 
 
Project Objectives 
 
Key Performance Indicators 
Project Development Objective: 
 
Enable Government to help affected 
families survive the crisis, retain 
productive assets, and develop sustainable 
livelihoods 
 
Help stabilize the macroeconomy 
Outcome/Impact Indicators (for National, 
Regional or Woreda level as appropriate) 
 
Distress migration prevented 
 
Student drop out rates reduced, especially for 
girls 
 
Inflation rate 
 
Output from each Component: 
 
Defend critical Human Development 
expenditure by Government 
 
Maintain availability of critical economic 
inputs 
 
Rehabilitate and create communal assets 
using community labour. 
 
Provide income supplements, and protect 
private assets 
Output Indicators (for National, Regional 
or Woreda level as appropriate ) 
 
Sector budget expenditure shares and 
amounts for human development expenditure 
not reduced 
 
Prices for critical economic inputs kept stable 
 
Number of Community Subprojects 
implemented 
 
Household asset base not consumed 
