                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR0000509




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-H0280)




                                     ON A

                                     Grant

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF
               SDR 43.5 MILLION (US$ 60.00 MILLION equivalent)




                                    TO THE

                             Government of Ethiopia

                                    FOR A

                       Emergency Drought Recovery Project




                                 June 22, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
AFTS2
African Region

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    December 31, 2006

                     Currency Unit =
                   1.00 Birr= US$ 0.11
                  US$ 1.00 = XDR 0.66

                      FISCAL YEAR

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB     African Development Bank
AM       Aide Memoire
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBIM     Community Based Impact Monitoring
CD       Country Director
CDD      Community Driven Development
CO       Country Office
DGA      Development Grant Agreement
DPPA     Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Agency
DPPC     Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission
EDRP     Emergency Drought Recovery Project
ESMF     Environmental Social Management Framework
FMR      Financial Management Report
FSCB     Food Security Coordination Bureau
GoE      Government of Ethiopia
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
ICAS     Interim Country Assistance Strategy
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
MoARD    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
M &E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MoFED    Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MTR      Mid Term Review
NGO      Non Government Organization
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMU      Project Management Unit
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Sector Credit
PSNP     Productive Safety Net Programme
PSR      Project Status Report
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
SDPRP    Sustainable Development Poverty Reduction Programme
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
TTL      Task Team Leader
TA       Technical Annex

UNECA    United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
UN       United Nations
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
WDC      Woreda Development Committee




              Vice President:Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
            Country Director:Ishac Diwan
             Sector Manager: Karen Mcconnell Brooks
         Project Team Leader:Ingo Wiederhofer
           ICR Team Leader:  Animesh Shrivastava

                                               Ethiopia
                       Emergency Drought Recovery Project




                                            CONTENTS




 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring
 I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     EMERGENCY
                                                                     DROUGHT
Country:               Ethiopia               Project Name:
                                                                     RECOVERY
                                                                     PROJECT
Project ID:            P081773                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H0280
ICR Date:              04/11/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    ERL                    Borrower:
                                                                     ETHIOPIA
Original Total
                       XDR 43.5M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 43.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
N/A


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/18/2002     Effectiveness:       05/30/2003        05/30/2003
Appraisal:            01/21/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/27/2003     Mid-term Review:     12/31/2004        02/25/2005
                                     Closing:             12/31/2006        12/31/2006
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:             Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately              Implementing            Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory          Agency/Agencies:        Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural marketing and trade                                 20                  20
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                 40                  40
General education sector                                          5                   5
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector            15                  15
Other social services                                            20                  20


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Natural disaster management                                Primary             Primary
Nutrition and food security                                Primary             Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                         Secondary           Secondary
Social safety nets                                         Primary             Primary
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                   Secondary           Secondary
E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto E.Madavo
Country Director:         Ishac Diwan                        Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:           Karen Mcconnell Brooks             Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:      Ingo Wiederhofer                   James Coates
ICR Team Leader:          Animesh Shrivastava
ICR Primary Author:       Animesh Shrivastava

F. Results Framework Analysis                    1



Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Development Objective of the project is to enable the Government of Ethiopia to
address the 2002/03 drought emergency without unduly disrupting the macro economy,
and to help affected families survive the drought crisis, retain productive assets and
maintain livelihoods. As a result:-

     (i)      Stressed migration and displacement of affected population will be
              minimized;
     (ii)     Livelihood activities will continue without undue interruption;
     (iii)    Malnutrition of children, pregnant and lactating mothers, elderly and
              disadvantaged people exacerbated by the drought will be reduced;
     (iv)     Girls' school attendance will be encouraged; and
     (v)      Community and household assets created will contribute towards mitigating
              future drought emergencies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
[Note: Same as Annex 2 (a). As mentioned in section 2.3, information in the ISRs is not
directly usable for assessment of PDOs.]

Quick Disbursing Component2
                 Indicator                           Unit       Baseline     End-of-                Actual End-of-Project
                                                                             Project Value Value (2006)
                                                                             projected        in
                                                                             SAR/PAD
Macro-economy and social sector                         N/A           N/A            N/A            Social sector expenditures
expenditures not unduly disrupted by drought                                                        (excluding food security
and drought response.                                                                               expenditures) which
                                                                                                    represented 8.6% of
                                                                                                    Government expenditures
                                                                                                    in 2001/2002 increased to
                                                                                                    11% in 2003/2004.
Community Interventions Component
                 Indicator                           Unit       Baseline     End-of-Project            Actual End-of-
                                                                             Value projected Project Value (2006)
                                                                             in SAR/PAD
1. Construction/Rehabilitation of Community Assets
Community sub-projects implemented                       No.           NA                      NA                       2,124
No. of community sub-projects in the
following areas:
·    Water development3                                  No.           NA                      NA                          648




1 The ICR team agreed with management that the previous indicators did not effectively measure the achievement of
the PDO. Therefore, the ICR team established the indicators utilized above in consultation with management.
2 With respect to the quick-disbursing component, it should be noted that it is difficult to isolate the (incremental)
impact of the Project to indicators such as inflation rate and macro-economic stabilization. Also, relevant target levels
were not defined in the PDO or the PAD. Hence, these are not reported here (see also discussion in section 3.2).

·    Soil and Water Conservation4                      No.            NA                    NA                          591
·    Infrastructure Development5                       No.            NA                    NA                          304
Share of total component budget spent on
following sub-projects:
·    Water development                                   %            NA                    NA                         51.3
·    Soil and Water Conservation                         %            NA                    NA                         20.3
·    Rural Productive Infrastructure6                    %            NA                    NA                         13.9
·    Social Infrastructure                               %            NA                    NA                         11.0
Individuals employed                                   No.            NA                    NA                     904289
- women employed                                       No.            NA                    NA        363 725 (37% of total)
Average income per individual per sub-                 Birr           NA                    NA                          340
project7
Physical outputs from sub-projects:
Soil and Water Conservation
     ·    Soil/stone bunds and terraces               kms             NA                    NA                      26976
     ·    Cut-off drains                           (length)           NA                    NA                      77453
     ·    Tree seedlings planted                        m3            NA                    NA                         13.4
     ·    Catchment area protected               (volume)             NA                    NA                        1029
                                                       No.
Water Development                                 (million)
     o    Ponds                                        Ha.            NA                    NA                          327
     o    Micro-irrigation                                            NA                    NA                          137
     o    Pump irrigation                                             NA                    NA                            3
     o    Spring devt/maintenance                      No.            NA                    NA                          332
     o    Hand dug wells                               No.            NA                    NA                          119
     o    Roof harvesting structures                   No.            NA                    NA                           22
     o    Access to drinking water                     No.            NA                    NA                     172242
                                                       No.
Infrastructure Development                             No.
     o    Access roads constructed/                  No. of           NA                    NA                        2940
          maintained                              househol
     o    School structures maintained                  ds            NA                    NA                          368
     o    Health posts rehabilitated                                  NA                    NA                           88
                                                      kms

                                                       No.
                                                       No.
No. of community users (indirect                       No.            NA                    NA                     1461430
beneficiaries) of assets created by sub-
projects
                                                                                                       2. Targeted Nutrition
Girl pupils assisted                                        No.            NA               NA                       18940
Share of total component budget spent                        %             NA               NA                           2.9
3. School Attendance
Amount of resources spent                                 US $             NA               NA                      109859




3 Includes pond construction, micro irrigation, pump irrigation, spring development and maintenance, hand dug well
construction and roof water harvesting

4 Includes construction of bunds, terraces, check dams, cut-off drains and waterways as well as range management and
tree plantation

5 Includes construction and maintenance of roads as well as rehabilitation of schools and health institutions

6 Mainly construction and maintenance of rural roads

7 Estimate based on a sample of 986 focus groups, representing 14083 households, who participated in an end-user
evaluation.

Share of total component budget spent            %       NA       NA               0.7




G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
         No.               Date ISR
                           Archived           DO            IP     Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1      10/28/2003              Satisfactory     Satisfactory            13.50
  2      04/28/2004              Satisfactory     Satisfactory            46.52
  3      06/25/2004              Satisfactory     Satisfactory            46.52
  4      11/12/2004              Satisfactory     Satisfactory            49.26
  5      04/22/2005              Satisfactory     Satisfactory            50.00
  6      11/07/2005              Satisfactory     Satisfactory            54.18
  7      12/14/2005              Satisfactory     Satisfactory            54.18
  8      06/19/2006              Satisfactory     Satisfactory            59.57
  9      12/06/2006              Satisfactory     Satisfactory            62.40

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The project was prepared in the context of a Joint Government ­ UN Appeal
launched in December 2002 to avert the humanitarian crisis brought about by a gradually
deepening drought in the historically vulnerable areas of Ethiopia. Similar droughts
simultaneously affected several other sub-Saharan countries in Africa, including Zambia,
Malawi, Botswana and Zimbabwe. In Ethiopia, the drought had been triggered by the failure
of short season rains (belg) in February and March of 2002, followed by a delay in the main
season rains (mehr) in June 2002. The drought was regarded as the worst in Ethiopia in the
last 18 years, and the resulting situation was assessed to have the following critical aspects:

(i)     Severe food insecurity: 11.3 million people were estimated to be suffering from
severe food insecurity, with another 3 million regarded as vulnerable in case the February-
March 2003 rains were to also fail. The overall food availability balance for the country
showed the need for nearly 2 million metric tons (17% of total requirements) of additional
food resources.

(ii)    Non-food assistance needs: to help set the stage for economic recovery, after the
immediate relief phase, assistance was also required in areas of agriculture (including seed
supply, irrigation and livestock-related activities), water supply, health and nutrition, and
capacity building. The Appeal estimated the non-food needs of the emergency response at
US$ 76.2 million.

(iii)   Adverse macroeconomic impacts: revisions in macroeconomic forecasts suggested
the following likely impact of the 2002 drought: GDP growth to be reduced by 50% (from
6% to 3% p.a.); inflation rate to increase by 30%; trade deficit to widen by 20%; and public
expenditure to grow by 25%, partly as a result of increased imports.

2.      The government responded promptly to the crisis. It provided additional budgetary
resources for procurement of food, seeds, veterinary drugs and related items. In addition, it
partnered with UN agencies and donors to organize a food aid appeal in January 2002 (with
upward revision of targets in July and October 2002), non-food assistance in October 2002
and finally the joint UN-Government appeal in December 2002.

3.      The rationale for World Bank assistance lay in the fact the Bank had the capacity and
resources to help in a timely manner, including with respect to frequently under-funded non-
food assistance elements and the provision of financial support to the Government to address
adverse macroeconomic impacts. The Bank also had relevant experience from supporting two
drought-related operations following the droughts of 1974 and 1984 respectively. In 2002/03
it was already involved in two related operations in Ethiopia: the Food Security Project and
the Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project. Further, during the same time
period, the Bank was also engaged in providing drought-recovery assistance to Zambia and
Malawi.




                                                1

4.       More significantly, the Bank was actively engaged with the Government of Ethiopia
and other donor partners in designing a broad national-level response to chronic food
insecurity that would move beyond annual food-aid appeals to a medium-term, partially cash-
based, safety net-linked program focusing on natural resource management and development
of community assets and sustainable livelihoods. This was to be supported under the PRSC to
help implement the country's poverty reduction strategy (called Sustainable Development
and Poverty Reduction Program or SDPRP, developed in 2002). The proposed operation of
Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) was expected to both draw upon design work
initiated under the PRSC and to contribute, through its implementation experience, to the
formulation of the national food security strategy.          This larger process culminated in
November 2003 in a national Food Security Program (FSP), which was developed with the
support of a group of donor partners including the World Bank known as the New Coalition
for Food Security in Ethiopia. This program included a component that attempted to link
community      works    for   vulnerable    households    in   food-insecure  communities   to
outputs/services designed to promote graduation out of food insecurity and to enhance
drought resilience. The World Bank has subsequently played a central role in the design and
financing of the latter through its support for the Government's Productive Safety Net
Program (PSNP).

5.       The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ethiopia for 2003-06, which was
endorsed two weeks after the EDRP was approved by the Board, had three strategic
objectives: (i) enhance pro-poor growth; (ii) enhance human development by improving
governance; and (iii) reduce vulnerability. The EDRP was consistent with the third pillar of
the CAS, which explicitly referred to the need to provide safety nets to vulnerable households
with a view to helping them sustain and build assets.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.       The project development objective was to enable the Government to help affected
families survive the crisis, retain productive assets, and develop sustainable livelihoods, as
well as contribute to the stabilizing of the macro-economy.

7.       In elaboration of the PDO, the Technical Annex or TA (p. 15) mentions that the
project was expected to:

(i)      defend critical human development expenditure by the Government during the next
         year from pressures caused by the current crisis;
(ii)     maintain the availability of critical economic inputs (particularly those needed in
         rural areas) and support the economic recovery process;
(iii)    rehabilitate and/or create communal assets using community labor of the affected
         population; and
(iv)     provide income supplements, and protect private assets of the affected population.

8.       The Project log frame (see TA, Schedule F) lists three key performance indicators
relating to outcome/impact:

(i) distress migration reduced;
(ii) student drop-out rates reduced (especially for girls); and



                                                2

(iii) inflation rate lowered. However, the level of these indicators is not specified either at
baseline or at project completion. Indeed, in the text of TA (p. 15) it is remarked ­ correctly ­
that measuring project contribution to macroeconomic stabilization, in terms of its impact on
inflation or other indicators, is not possible.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
No revision.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.       The primary target group of project beneficiaries comprised individuals and/or
households in the 35 targeted woredas (districts) who were employed in the various sub-
projects implemented under this project and those who benefited from the targeted nutrition
and school attendance program.

1.5 Original Components

10.      The project had two main components:

(i)      Quick Disbursing Assistance (US$ 43.5 million): This was formally intended to help
in financing essential imports from a defined list (described in Schedule A of the TA) by
providing additional foreign exchange. According to the TA, the critical imports were
expected to support recovery of the economy and the agriculture sector in particular, while
the provision of foreign exchange grant would help keep both the trade and fiscal deficits
down. Counterpart resources, released from the financing of these essential imports, were
expected to be used to support the government's national Emergency Drought Recovery
Program (which presumably was mainstreamed into the Food Security Program
subsequently).

(ii)     Community Interventions (US$ 16.5 million): This component was supposed to
finance three kinds of activities: (a) public works programs to improve coping capacities of
affected populations and to create/rehabilitate productive assets (community assets and
government owned/managed infrastructure); (b) targeted nutrition (specifically, inclusion of
supplementary enriched food, aimed at small children, pregnant and lactating mothers, in the
`food package' provided to the respective families); and (c) school attendance (specifically,
additional food allowance to targeted girl pupils attending school).

11.      The causal links between the components and the PDO as stated are not immediately
evident due to a lack of clarity and specificity in the PDO. However, the elaboration of the
PDO (see section 1.2 above) and the detailed project description suggest the following
relationship between components and the PDO:

(a) Component (i) would stabilize the macro economy through maintaining the flow of
critical inputs and keeping trade and fiscal deficits down. It would further help families
survive the crisis by helping release counterpart resources which would be channeled through
the government's national Emergency Drought Recovery Program.




                                                3

(b) Component (ii) would help in the retention of productive assets through both cash
transfers ­ employment income from public works schemes ­ which would aid private capital
formation/protection (especially preservation of livestock), and through the public works
themselves which would build or rehabilitate community assets. The retention and
accumulation of these productive assets would help develop more sustainable and drought
resilient livelihoods. On the other hand, targeted nutrition and school attendance program
would help in surviving the crisis (and improving coping capacity) of selected vulnerable
households in the 35 targeted woredas.

12.     It is noted that given the nature and the timing of implementation of interventions
planned under both the government's national EDRP and under the public works part of
component (ii), the phrase "help affected families recover from the crisis" might have been a
more appropriate description of outcome than "help families survive the crisis" (see also 2.1
below).

1.6 Revised Components
No revision.

1.7 Other significant changes
No significant change.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

13.     In response to the appeal of December 2002, the project was prepared in a short
period of little over five months under presumably trying conditions. Still, its preparation
reflected sound background analysis which stressed not just the need to deal with food
insecurity but also to improve longer-term coping capacities, especially through the build-up
of productive assets and sustainable livelihoods. Despite the short preparation time, the
project commendably included the following innovative design features which affected
implementation and outcome: (i) a blend of various kinds of support from macro stabilization
to targeted household-level assistance, to help in a broad-based recovery from the crisis; (ii)
provision of cash transfers (as opposed to only food rations) in workfare schemes for
building/protecting private assets and/or economic base; (iii) cash allowances in community
sub-projects for the purchase of complementary inputs beyond community labor (e.g.,
materials and technical expertise), in order to improve the relevance and effectiveness of
public works carried out; and (iv) involvement of the communities in selection,
implementation and management of sub-projects. Several of these features and lessons were
subsequently utilized to inform the design of the much larger ongoing national Productive
Safety Net Program (PSNP).

14.     At the level of the project development objective, there were weaknesses with the
"results framework" in the sense of objectives defined in broad, non-operational terms, lack
of sufficient congruence between project components/activities and the development
objectives, and a gap between objectives and their indicators (including the fact that the
indicators were not sufficiently specific or measurable and did not have identified pre- and
post-project levels which could be used to calibrate implementation success).



                                              4

15.     On the face of it, there were also some ambiguities and gaps in project design,
especially with regard to the intervention mechanism(s) by which the quick disbursing
component would have produced additional impact, beyond ensuring critical input supplies
and macroeconomic stabilization. Although the TA mentions in several places (see, e.g., pp.
11, 17, 44) that counterpart resources released from the quick disbursing component would
be used to support the national EDRP, no further information on the roll-out of this plan is
available. However, this "ambiguity" has to be contextualized in the project background
which involved a rapid preparation exercise, undertaken against the backdrop of an on-going
major emergency. The significant subsequent expansion of public programs and expenditures
on food insecurity and vulnerability (see section 3.2) would suggest that the aspirations in the
TA of using "counterpart" funds (from quick disbursing component) for national EDRP
essentially represented an interim stage in the government's thinking or approach towards
using the additional fiscal resources for addressing food insecurity as well as rural livelihood
restoration/development needs in wake of the economic crisis triggered by the drought. And,
as section 3.2 reports, the government did very substantially follow through on this objective
or "commitment".

16.     With regard to the community interventions component, the scope for developing
sustainable livelihoods was rather limited. An important mechanism under this component
would have been the public works carried out under the community interventions component.
However, by design, these had been restricted to community assets and government
owned/managed infrastructure (including schools). A majority of these do not have a directly
productive impact which can help in developing the household livelihoods base. Income
earned by beneficiaries from project employment was another source for investing in
livelihoods development. In practice, this is very likely to helped to a significant extent
(particularly in households where there was more than one project beneficiary, and especially
with regard to preservation of livestock); however, the limited evidence available suggests
that earned income was naturally also put to other competing uses, including meeting
immediate consumption needs. Overall, it should be noted in this regard that the project did
not have a dedicated component/intervention for livelihood development which impinged
directly upon productive activities undertaken by beneficiaries, e.g., agriculture or livestock.
This is remarkable given that the government's own planned national EDRP had a
component on agricultural inputs to assist those who had lost their basic assets ­ the basis of
their livelihoods ­ in terms of relevant agricultural inputs. Also, Bank experience of
providing drought recovery support around the same time in other countries included support
for agricultural development rehabilitation (e.g. in Zambia EDRP).

17.     The project implementation arrangements were essentially straightforward, building
on existing systems and approaches, and largely supporting activities already underway. The
project was being coordinated at the national/central level by the Food Security Department
of the Ministry of Rural Development, and being implemented at the woreda level with back-
up from both Regions and the center. However, two new features were introduced which
significantly influenced implementation. First, project design elevated the role of the
community from participation in initial planning to that of involvement in project
implementation and management (including identifying resource requirements, community
contributions, design parameters, basic procurement, and so on). This required a level of
awareness, capacity and organization which was initially not available, slowing down
implementation. Second, the project envisaged that targeted nutrition and school attendance ­


                                               5

both highly structured interventions traditionally carried out by agencies outside the Food
Security Department ­ would be coordinated effectively at the woreda level with other
project activities, with support from PMU and a national level steering committee. However,
this arrangement did not work out satisfactorily.

18.     The risk assessment for the project was satisfactory, with the greatest implementation
threat being anticipated in the lack of woreda-level capacity to enable the project to reach out
to the vulnerable populations in a timely manner. However, as mentioned in section 2.2
below, this remained a substantial hurdle, suggesting that the quality at entry, in terms of
preparedness to mitigate this perceived risk through training, capacity building and allocation
of appropriate staff resources at the lower levels, was not adequate. There appear to be two
reasons for this. First, there seems to have been a strong government belief in its capacity to
implement effectively and quickly using existing arrangements and capacities. Second, given
the project context ­ i.e., the urgent need to launch the emergency operation with very little
preparation time ­ many aspects of the existing situation had to be taken as "given". In other
words, the scope for putting in mitigation measures through focus on training, adequate
staffing and ensuring clear responsibilities at different tiers of implementation was less than
in "normal" project operations.

2.2 Implementation

Favorable Factors
19.     The government was familiar with the procurement arrangements required for the
quick-disbursing component. These were sufficiently flexible to allow for full disbursement
of the financing for this component within nine months of project effectiveness. Procurement
arrangements for the community grant component were also sufficiently flexible to enable
communities and woreda offices to procure goods, works and services required for sub-
project implementation.

20.     Once capacity gaps and training needs, largely at regional, woreda and kebele levels,
were identified in 2004, the project moved to provide training for the PMU and regional staff
(on implementation modalities, M&E, community procurement, financial management,
technical, environmental, social management framework), and later for woreda and kebele
level staff.

21.     After experiencing significant delays in the submission of Statement of Expenditures
(SoEs) for community grants from woreda finance offices, which in turn led to delays in
replenishment of IDA funds, the government responded after the Mid-Term Review ( MTR)
by recruiting regional coordinators, increasing the ceiling on operational expenses and
procuring key equipment (e.g., fax machines, photocopiers, motorcycles) to facilitate the
collection of information, as well as the compilation and transmittal of SoEs from the woreda
level. This significantly speeded up disbursement in the last two years of project
implementation. Government's deployment of food security focal persons at woreda level
was also helpful in this regard.

MTR
22.     The MTR identified major problems to project implementation such as impediments
in fund flow, work burden at the woreda level especially with regard to preparation of SoEs,



                                                6

capacity gaps, and weaknesses in M&E reporting. Measures were taken after the MTR
included hiring of dedicated regional project coordinators, an increase in the authorized
allocation to the project Special Account, an increase in the ceiling on operational expenses,
procurement of equipment to facilitate mobility and communication, and training of project
staff at different levels. These efforts substantially enhanced the implementation of the
project, with approximately 88% of the community interventions component being disbursed
in the post-MTR period.

Unfavorable Factors
23.     To begin with, there was insufficient assessment ­ and hence preparation ­ for the
implementation challenges involved. There are at least two aspects to this weakness. First,
the inception of the EDRP coincided with the government's efforts to devolve power to the
lower levels. However, while the woredas were made the focal point of implementation effort
with provision for technical back-up and supervision from the PMU, adequate mechanisms
for accountability and control ­ necessary to ensure adherence to agreed roles and
responsibilities of the players at each level of the three-tier implementation structure (woreda,
regions, centre) ­ were not put in place. Indeed, before the MTR, there were no full-time
regional coordinators. Consequently, the implementation system as a whole did not function
smoothly across the three levels of administrative hierarchy; in particular, delays in provision
of (or non-provision of) information, financial statements, M&E data and so on from the
lower levels impeded the speed and efficiency of implementation.

24.     Second, the project adopted a community-centered implementation process, moving
beyond the usual involvement of the community in prioritization of activities and beneficiary
targeting (as practiced in other related interventions) to using communities in preparing
proposals, submitting requests and undertaking project implementation, including financial
management and procurement. This implementation modality required substantial up-front
investments at the local level, including raising awareness about the approach and providing
adequate training to community members and woreda and kebele (sub-district) officials. Both
the significance and size of this need appears to have been under-estimated at project entry
(training programs were provided later). It is interesting in this regard that the ceiling for
operational budget expenses during the initial implementation stages of EDRP was fixed at
1% of sub-project costs, and was increased to 3% only after the MTR.

25.     Next, rapid initial disbursement of Bank resources for community interventions
component resources was also initially constrained by the relatively small initial size of the
authorized allocation to the Special Account (US$3 million). The increase of the allocation
to US$8 million after MTR contributed significantly to facilitating faster disbursement and
flow of funds for the community sub-project in the final two years of the Project.

26.     Also, there were a number of staffing-related difficulties. At the PMU, the position of
project coordinator was vacant for nearly one-third of the project implementation period (14
out of 42 months), and there have been three coordinators overall. At the regional level, full-
time coordinators were appointed only after the MTR, and in most cases there was change of
personnel even in the remaining project period. More generally, staff seconded to the project
by the government continued to have concurrent work responsibilities (in relation to which
their overall performance continued to be assessed), and hence were not able to commit
themselves fully to project implementation. These staffing gaps and staff turnover slowed



                                                 7

down project implementation, limited the effectiveness of training provided and contributed
to delays and weaknesses in project reporting.

27.     Finally, the project M & E system did not work. There was no collection of relevant
process, cost and output/impact data at regular intervals. Consequently it was not easy to
calibrate implementation progress and make mid-course corrections in light of the perceived
problems and difficulties. (The project however did conduct an end-user evaluation survey in
October 2006, which currently is the main source of information about project impact on the
ground.)


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

28.     The M&E system of this project showed weaknesses in design and implementation,
adversely affecting the ability to evaluate and learn from the project experience. At the
design level, there were weaknesses with the "results framework" in the sense of objectives
defined in broad, non-operational terms, lack of sufficient congruence between project
components/activities and the development objectives, and a gap between objectives and
their indicators (including the fact that the indicators were not sufficiently specific or
measurable and did not have identified pre- and post-project levels which could be used to
calibrate implementation success).

29.     However, the PMU did design an elaborate M&E system to cover the innovative,
community-centred aspect of project implementation. This system laid great stress on
participatory evaluation and on Community Based Impact Monitoring (CBIM). The idea was
to allow various interventions (including those outside the EDRP framework) in an area to be
compared to each other, and to be evaluated for their relative importance to food insecure
communities. The information generated was supposed to flow to decision makers, thus
enhancing policy responsiveness and best practice. But despite the design of appropriate
reporting formats and procedures, this M&E system failed to produce any outputs, primarily
due to non-responsiveness at woreda and kebele levels. Trouble-shooting was attempted
through training and simplification of the reporting format. However, this still did not elicit
participation from the concerned communities and local officials.

30.     Although systematic information on project impact is not available through the
regular M&E system, the PMU launched an end-user survey in 40 kebeles of 20 woredas in 6
regions in 2006. The purpose of the survey was to assess the impact of selected sub-projects
with regard to quantifiable changes in beneficiaries' lives, on the relative wealth of end-users,
types of beneficiaries in terms of gender and wealth, and unanticipated results realized by
beneficiaries. This end-user evaluation therefore constitutes a useful source of information on
the project's likely impacts. In addition, the World Bank commissioned a qualitative
beneficiary impact assessment, which provides important insights into the impacts of the
Project (see Annex 5 for Executive Summary).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards




                                              8

31.     The Project has been classified as Category B as the community grant component
envisaged the construction of small rural infrastructure, including rural road rehabilitation
and related works, school and clinic rehabilitation, small communal water harvesting
infrastructure, bunds, terraces, gully plugs, and erosion control infrastructure. A Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF) and an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
were put in place in May 2004, one year after project effectiveness. These included detailed
procedures and community sub-project screening forms. The PMU further provided training
sessions on the use of these forms and the RPF and ESMF procedures to regional and woreda
level officials involved in EDRP implementation. The PMU also recruited an engineer
whose tasks included the provision of safeguards monitoring and support. However, it
appears that the safeguards screening forms were utilized only in some areas by woreda
officials and communities when designing and appraising community project proposals. This
appears to be a systematic problem with respect to woreda-level activities, and has also been
identified as a concern in other similar World Bank supported projects in Ethiopia.

32.     The ESMF for the EDRP indicates that "[u]nder EDRP, there will be no funding for
the construction or rehabilitation of dams". However, three small masonry dams were
constructed in the East Belessa woreda of the Amhara Region at cost exceeding US$ 100,000
for each. Relevant documentation concerning construction of these dams (e.g., documents
showing utilization of generic dam safety measures designed by qualified engineers in line
OP 4.37, environmental impact assessment, or indeed financial/economic analysis of these
sub-projects) were not available. The design, safety and other impact issues related to these
dams therefore need to be examined/confirmed and approved in order to allay potential risks
or concerns.

Fiduciary
33.     Financial Management. Financial management of the EDRP was plagued by delays
in the submission of financial monitoring reports by woredas and regions, which contributed
to significant delays in the submission of quarterly Financial Management Reports by the
PMU to the World Bank, and impacted upon the findings of external audits. No FMRs were
submitted from June 2004 ­ November 2006. An FMR covering the period July 2005 ­
October 2006 was submitted to the World Bank only on December 21, 2007. As mentioned
in section 2.2 above, several actions were taken after MTR which helped streamline
preparation of SoEs and subsequent disbursement of funds.

34.     Audit. Annual external audit reports for the periods July 2003 ­ June 2004 and July
2004 ­ June 2005 respectively were submitted to the World Bank with significant delays.
The audit for the period July 2005 ­ June 2006, which was due to be submitted to the World
Bank by January 7, 2007, has not yet been submitted. In view of the "disclaimer" opinion
expressed by auditors in both the previous audits, the lack of submission to date of the audit
for the period July 2005 ­ June 2006 is a matter of concern.

35.     In sum, the Government has struggled to comply with the financial management and
reporting arrangements of the Project. As background, it may be noted that there is a
systemic problem of delayed audits in the country. The audits are generally prepared by the
Audit Service Corporation of the Government, whose work is characterized by chronic
bottlenecks and lags in preparation of the required reports.




                                                9

36.      Procurement. The procurement of key items for use in project management was
initially delayed substantially due to the lack of appropriate procurement capacity and staff in
the PMU. Procurement of community goods, works and services has been undertaken by a
combination of woreda officials and communities, with practices varying significantly by
woreda. The decentralization of procurement activities to woredas has faced difficulties
arising from lack of trained staff and lack of familiarity with procurement rules and
procedures at that level.

37.      There was also a process of learning which initially delayed implementation.
Pertinent woreda government institutions found the community driven procurement practice
different to the standard fiduciary regulations which they were used to. For instance, they
were not used to advancing cash to the community, being more accustomed to undertaking
procurement on their own and supplying the relevant materials.

38.      Disbursement. Project records suggest that 99.93 % of the funds were disbursed.
Undisbursed funds amount to XDR 31,470.28 or USD 47,609.81, which will be cancelled.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
39.      Unusually for an emergency operation, this project included significant operational
elements designed to generate learning likely to be relevant in formulating the government's
longer-term food security program, especially the safety-net oriented activities. In 2003, with
the support of the Bank and other key donors, the government developed - through its Food
Security Program - a robust and long-term response to the chronic food insecurity problem
that sought to move beyond annual food-aid appeals to a medium-term, partially cash-based,
safety-net linked program, involving community participation and focusing on natural
resource management and development of community assets and sustainable livelihoods. In
this regard, this project's approach remains relevant and is in fact reflected partly in
institutional arrangements and approaches of the on-going national Productive Safety Nets
Program which is being implemented in 234 woredas across the country.

40.      Completed EDRP community sub-projects do not raise any significant post-
completion operation or next phase management issue. The main project activity at the
ground level comprised the numerous labor-intensive public works, one of whose main
objective was to generate employment for the beneficiaries. Most of these sub-projects are
technically simple and, as indicated in section 4, their operation and maintenance can be
expected to be feasibly handled at the local community level (i.e., it does not require
continuation of specific technical, financial, commercial or institutional provisions at the
project-wide level).

41.      However, one area of potential concern relates to a number of incomplete
community sub-projects. The PMU has informed the Bank that at the project closure
date (December 31, 2006), 114 EDRP sub-projects, involving an overall budget of ETB
35.52 million, had been initiated but not yet completed. The Government has assured the
Bank that these sub-projects will be completed utilizing resources from other sources as
appropriate. However, information on the current status of these sub-projects including
actual availability of resources and the expected timeline for their completion is currently
not available. To ensure overall success and sustainability of the community intervention




                                                10

component, it is imperative that all necessary measures to finance and complete these
remaining sub-projects are taken as soon as possible.

42.     With regard to follow-up actions, it should be recognized that in the course of
project implementation significant social and institutional capacities have been formed
within beneficiary communities for planning, implementation and management of
development projects. In line with the emphasis currently placed by the government on
administrative devolution and an enhanced community role in local development, it
would be useful to mainstream the key Community-Driven Development (CDD)
practices developed under the project in other relevant local development and food
security plans and programs. Opportunities in this regard are likely to be provided by the
on-going World Bank assisted-food PSNP, FSP and other interventions intended to
support decentralization and local service delivery at woreda level.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

43.     Conventionally, the (continued) relevance of an emergency operation is tied to the
crisis to which it responds. This holds true for the quick disbursing part of this operation. The
agricultural sector has performed well in the last three years. Hence, the recurrent needs of
the vulnerable have been less than in the years prior to the emergency, and are being
addressed through the government's PSNP with institutionalized assistance of development
partners.

44.     The second, community-level part of this project, which sought to enhance asset base
and coping capacities of the affected populations, continues to have high overall relevance.
The problem of chronic food insecurity and economic vulnerability persists in several parts
of Ethiopia, driven by secular pressures such as degradation of natural resource base,
population pressures, fragmentation of farm-land and limited opportunities for livelihood
diversification. Consequently, while the country's development strategy emphasizes broad-
based growth, managing vulnerabilities is a key part of the development plan. The Bank's
Interim Country Assistance Strategy (ICAS, FY 2006-07) also sets out a program of
assistance that is aligned to this development approach.

45.     Beyond the development objective, the project's community-based approach and
implementation arrangements also continue to have high relevance for the government's
ongoing food security program and local development initiatives.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

46.     The project had four objectives: help affected families survive the crisis; retain
productive assets; develop sustainable livelihoods; and contribute to macroeconomic
stabilization. These are assessed below, although in different order for expositional
convenience.




                                               11

Contributing to Macroeconomic Stabilization

47.     Combined donor support during this period almost certainly contributed to short-term
macro-economic stabilization. For instance, as shown in Annex 2(b), the inflation rate
declined from 15.1% in 2002/03 to 8.6% in 2003/04, with an even more marked fall in the
food inflation rate from 24.8% in 2002/03 to 11.8% in 2003/04. (Note that at the time of
project preparation, the macroeconomic assessment was that inflation rate would spike up
30%, as reported in section 1.1 (iii) above). However, the caveat must be mentioned - as also
acknowledged in the TA - that it is not possible to isolate and assess the impact of the quick
disbursing component of this project on macroeconomic stabilization. This project's
resources were part of a larger stabilization support offered by the donors and, while helpful,
may not have been decisive in terms of determining macroeconomic stability (for perspective,
US$ 43.5 million macro-stabilization support, provided by this project, amounted to 6% of
the (negative) current account balance and 2% of the country's total import bill in 2002/03).

48.     The TA mentions a specific aspect of macroeconomic stabilization, viz., maintaining,
through key imports, the availability of critical economic inputs (particularly those needed in
rural areas). The key items are defined through a "Positive List of Imports" (Schedule A in
the TA) which contains ten categories of goods which could presumably be bought in any
proportion. The structure of the list suggests that it is aimed more generally at the overall
economy than the agricultural sector (only two out of ten import categories pertain directly to
agriculture; in fact, less than ten percent of the component was spent on agriculture related
products). Although the wording regarding the impact on macro-economic stability in the
PDO could have been more specific, it is evident that the implicit intent of the quick
disbursing component was to assist the GOE to meet the food and rural livelihood-related
needs while insulating as far as possible the rest of the economy (especially the social
sectors) from the drought generated "shock". This can broadly be regarded to have been
accomplished. Indeed, social sector expenditures (excluding food security expenditures)
which represented 8.6% of Government expenditures in 2001/2002 increased to 11% in
2003/2004. (see the detailed figures for 2002 ­ 2005 in Annex 2(b)).

Helping families survive (more broadly, recover from) the crisis

49.     Two possible causal chains are relevant in this regard: (i) counterpart resources,
released by providing foreign exchange support for imports under quick disbursement
component, would be used to provide relief to affected families through the national Food
Security Program - which the government's proposed national EDRP, mentioned several
times in the TA, was apparently mainstreamed into - and/or defend critical human
development expenditures; and (ii) support would be provided to selected families for
nutrition and for schooling under the community interventions component.

50.     With regard to counterpart resources, as already noted in section 2.1., project design
does not provide clear guidance ­ through, e.g., more explicit operational links, results
framework or possibly an identifiable fund flow mechanism ­ on how the counterpart
resources might be used to achieve this PDO. However, as mentioned before, the
government's national EDRP, mentioned in the TA, was likely a precursor for the
government's much larger and more organized effort at addressing food insecurity and
vulnerability issues (through the Hunger Task Force and later the New Coalition for Food
Security). The practical outcome of these initiatives was a massive expansion of public


                                               12

expenditure on "vulnerability and food security" category which increased from ETB 835
million in 2002/03 to ETB 2.6 billion in 2003/04. In expenditure share terms, this represented
an increase in spending on vulnerability and food security from 24% of the overall public
expenditure on agriculture and rural development in 2002/03 to 49% in 2003/04. It is
therefore plausible to conclude that counterpart resources generated under the EDRP
increased the government's capacity to help stabilize the economy and assist affected
families in recovery from drought-related stresses.

51.     With regard to help with surviving the crisis through targeted nutrition and school
attendance interventions (under the community interventions component), the picture is
disappointing. The uptake of both these activities has been "low" (though note that,
technically, no target was defined in terms of outlay or expected outputs for these sub-
components in the TA) and the implementation was not in line with the intended design and
purpose. The targeted nutrition program was supposed to finance the inclusion of nutritional
supplements in food aid packages targeted at small children and pregnant and lactating
women. However, in the few instances where this program was implemented, it reportedly
took the form of cash transfers to help selected families purchase additional food. Overall, the
expected implementation mechanism, under which DPPC (now DPPA) would receive
supplementary food supplies at the federal level and distribute it at the local level along with
normal food deliveries, did not work. Similarly, the school attendance program was meant to
use food or cash transfers to help maintain attendance of girl pupils at school during drought-
related crisis. Again, this was not implemented in most of the project woredas. Where
implementation occurred, it was typically only after January 2005 (i.e., not in the immediate
wake of the 2002/03 drought) and typically took the form of assistance with school supplies
or clothing.

52.     Overall, it is evident that these two sub-components were not actively implemented
and did not deliver the development outcomes (in terms of beneficiary targeting and the
nature of support offered) that was intended. However, in assessing their impact on
realization of the PDOs of the overall project, it is also pertinent to note that the resources
tied up in these two sub-components was small: about 3.6% of the total community
interventions component, and less than one percent of total project costs at appraisal. Overall,
therefore, the "loss" to achievement of PDOs due to the poor functioning of these sub-
components is not likely to be significant.

Rebuild Assets and Develop Sustainable Livelihoods

53.     Causally, this would relate to the community interventions component and would
come about in two ways: on the private side, through the employment income generated; and
on the public side, through investments in community sub-projects. Annex 2(a) provides
some relevant information in this regard. It shows that the project generated direct
employment for over 900,000 individuals (who, according to an end-user survey, earned an
average of 340 Birr from working on a sub-project). This was no doubt an important source
of economic support, in part because it likely allowed the families to maintain (or reduce de-
stocking of) their livestock. On the community assets side, Annex 2 again shows that there
were a large range and number of physical achievements. Clearly, consistent with the
community-driven nature of these sub-projects, it was not feasible to define ex ante specific
end-of-project target values; hence, that yardstick is unavailable to measure project success.
On the other hand, this component was carefully designed to expend most of its resources at


                                               13

the front-line level (the administrative expenses were kept at 1% of sub-project costs until
MTR, and raised to 3% thereafter when it was realized that the limit was constrictive ­ see
also section 2.2). In view of the fact that this component was also fully disbursed, and that
2,124 community projects were implemented, the outputs generated from the component are
likely to be substantial.

54.     Beyond the "quantities", recorded in Annex 2, the issue of timing and quality are also
relevant to the realization of the PDO: in an emergency operation, benefits delivered earlier
in the implementation cycle are likely to be more valuable; and also benefits that go beyond
providing "one-off" relief to helping improve and sustain coping and productive capacities
are likely to be more valuable. With regard to timing, it should be noted that the
implementation of the community component was significantly delayed (9% of the expected
component outlay was disbursed in the first year, 24% in the second year, 51% in the third
year, and 16% in the last six-months; or, alternatively, 12% was disbursed before the MTR in
January 2005, and the rest after). Other things being equal, this is likely to have lowered the
value of the support provided by the project for recovery from the crisis, and hence adversely
affected the attainment of the PDOs. In assessing project performance, it is therefore
important to understand the causes of the implementation lag.

55.     Part of the delay was due to avoidable reasons relating to capacity weaknesses and
lack of preparedness for implementation at entry (e.g., lack of sufficient ground level staff,
coordinators at regional level, upfront training and so on). But an important reason for the lag
was also a project design choice that, in effect, traded off some implementation speed for
quality and sustainability. In a departure from the existing government employment
guarantee scheme (EGS), on which the community intervention component's activities were
otherwise modeled, implementation modalities for this component were changed to put the
community at the center of the process. This was especially done through the empowering
feature of requiring a contract to be signed between the community and the woreda
administration, which would provide the basis for disbursement of Bank funds against a
community grant. Project implementation experience suggests learning to handle this
community-centered process ­ with change in roles and responsibilities of the community
and the woreda officials, and associated changes in administrative procedures ­ required
some learning time at the ground level.

56.     The flip side of this implementation delay was a process of learning that has allowed,
by all accounts, a more participatory and community-driven implementation process to be
followed that before. Some available evidence ­ which is regrettably patchy and
unsystematic owing to weaknesses in M&E ­ suggests that this led to improvements in sub-
project identification and formulation (these are more locally relevant), greater learning and
ownership during project implementation, and emergence of various O&M arrangements
which show greater concern for sustainability (see also section 4). These improvements in the
"quality" of outcomes offset to some extent the delay in their delivery. The approach was
also in line with the government's emphasis on decentralization. Thus, although not reflected
in the formal PDO, the community driven feature was important to project outcome in terms
of improved quality and sustainability as well as enhanced perceptions of local governance.

57.     A final feature that is relevant to assessing the outcome is the nature of the sub-
projects with regard to development of a sustainable livelihoods base. Livelihoods and
incomes in the project area seem largely to depend upon agriculture and livestock. As already


                                               14

mentioned above (section 2.1) project design did not have a dedicated intervention for
livelihood development which impinged directly upon the productive activities related to
agriculture or livestock. Many of the sub-projects implemented (e.g., with respect to soil and
water conservation) are likely to produce more general environmental benefits and strengthen
future drought resilience rather than directly enhance livelihood prospects. Similarly, social
infrastructure projects (accounting for 11% of total amount spent on community sub-projects)
are again unlikely to directly strengthen the livelihoods base.

Overall

58.     Overall, the project is assessed to have achieved its development objective
moderately satisfactorily. Notwithstanding the inherent difficulty in tracking the impact of
the quick disbursing component (in part due to the peculiar wording of the PDO), it can be
plausibly argued that this assistance helped Government to respond to the drought emergency
in a timely manner, while increasing the government's fiscal capacity to protect other public
expenditures and/or significantly expand the public programs relating to food insecurity and
vulnerability. Furthermore, the community interventions component did produce valued
household incomes as well as public works of community value (selected and implemented
by communities). Moreover, the lessons learned in this component have proven beneficial to
the design of larger scale national safety net programs which are currently ongoing.
(However, it should be noted that while these learning benefits were mentioned in the TA
they were not explicitly included in the PDO which formally provides the framework for
assessment of project outcomes). On the other hand, it should be also noted that for an
emergency operation, the benefits relating to the community interventions components were
generated rather late in the project cycle (mostly after the MTR). Finally, many of the sub-
project interventions were not identifiably tied to improving the livelihoods base.

3.3 Efficiency

59.     As common with emergency operations prepared under Operational Policy 8.50,
no economic, financial or efficiency analysis was carried out at appraisal. No baseline
information was collected. In the absence of a functioning M&E system, and hence little
systematic information on project costs and impacts, an efficiency analysis could not be
carried out at ICR.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

60.     The PDOs were highly relevant to the crisis response. The quick disbursing
component helped in overall stabilization of the macroeconomy and very likely contributed
to a massive expansion of public expenditures to address the chronic problems of food
insecurity and vulnerability. The community interventions component generated cash
incomes through employment in community sub-projects as well as resulted in augmentation
of the community assets base. However, as mentioned above, there were significant
implementation delays in realization of these benefits, and many of the investments did not
directly enhance the economic or livelihoods base of the community.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts



                                                15

(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

61.      Poverty was clearly at the core of the project's aim to provide relief to the families
worst affected by the drought. In practice, the targeting procedures adopted were in line with
the established rules and regulations of the "National Food Aid Targeting Guidelines", in
which poverty status clears plays an important role.

62.      Regarding gender and social development, the project had a neutral stance with
respect to community sub-projects, perhaps in order to not undermine the community-driven
approach to sub-project identification and selection. Still, Annex 2 (a) shows that 37% of
employment opportunities generated by the project were availed by women. Further, some
projects such as those relating to access to drinking water differentially benefited the women
more by saving them from the drudgery of water collection over long distances. Annex 2
shows that 172,242 households (typically, women) benefited from improved access to
drinking water.

63.      The targeted nutrition and school attendance sub-components attempted to address a
mix of poverty, gender and social objectives. However, as mentioned in section 3.2., the
implementation of these sub-components was not satisfactory, and a relatively small number
of beneficiaries were impacted through these (see Annex 2 (a)).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

64.      There are two aspects of institutional change/strengthening associated with this
project. First, it helped pilot a process relief and recovery assistance in which cash transfers
(as opposed to only food rations) were used in workfare schemes for building or protecting
private assets or economic base. Second, it followed an implementation strategy in which the
communities were centrally involved in selection, implementation and management of sub-
projects (see section 2.1). Some of the experience and lessons arising from this project
experience have been mainstreamed in other projects such as the Bank assisted Productive
Safety Nets Project which is being implemented in 234 woredas. The Beneficiary
Assessment recently undertaken by the World Bank suggests that the project offers several
additional lessons regarding the role of communities in food security and local development
efforts, especially with respect to management of procurement and financial management
aspects of community projects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

65.      Overall, the risk that the development outcomes of the project will not be maintained
is assessed as moderate, based on the considerations below.




                                                16

66.     In the main, the identifiable development outcomes of the project comprise the
various public works (community sub-projects) carried out under the community
interventions component. The sustainability of these investments and assets presents a mixed
picture, depending in part on the nature of the asset and the institutional arrangements
governing its use:

(i)     The rural social services (schools, clinics) constructed/rehabilitated during the period
        should not experience significant problems of sustainability, as these are managed by
        established corresponding government institutions.
(ii)    Community water supply schemes have generated significant positive welfare effects
        and hence there is likely to be a strong incentive at the community level to maintain
        and manage them. It is noteworthy that in some places arrangements for community
        management of the relevant water supply schemes have emerged, including a system
        of collecting water fees to finance operation and maintenance of the scheme.
        However, the financial sustainability of these systems (e.g., the ability to break even)
        needs to be checked.
(iii)   The use rights over various natural resources areas that have been conserved under
        the project still remains undefined (the formal ownership and control rights belong to
        the government). In some good practice cases, the woredas have handed out
        management and use responsibilities to certain groups. This has led to the emergence
        of community arrangements with regard to both guarding of the resource and its
        sustainable economic exploitation. Introducing similar arrangements in other areas
        would both enhance the sustainability of the conserved natural resource areas and
        help expand community livelihoods base. Given the large number of such projects
        carried out (see Annex 2 (a)), this is the area where sustainability of the investments
        made emerges as potential area of concern.
(iv)    The public works executed are by and large technically simple in nature. Hence their
        operations and maintenance is unlikely to require skills beyond the beneficiary
        community.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

67.     The Bank reacted with commendable speed to the Joint Government ­ UN appeal,
and helped steer this operation from design stage to Board approval in about five months.
Project design built on earlier lessons, provided timely and large scale non-food assistance,
and sought to build on activities already underway. The project also introduced sensible
innovations in design to better address the underlying causes of chronic food insecurity and
vulnerability.

68.     In preparation, there were weaknesses in the "results framework" (scope and
specificity of objectives, congruence between project interventions and objectives, links
between objectives and indicators, and the measurability of indicators), the M&E system
(especially with regard to arrangements for data collection and use) and the assessment of
project readiness for implementation. With regard to the last, there seems to have been



                                               17

insufficient appreciation of the tenuous lines of accountability across different tiers of
administration (central, regional, local) and of capacity bottlenecks and training needs at the
local level. Although many of these risks were perceived during project design and
admittedly could not all be addressed prior to "entry" due to the urgency in launching the
project operation, sufficiently robust mitigation measures do not appear to have been
included in the project documents and immediate implementation plans.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

69.     The quality of technical backstopping was generally good and Bank supervision
missions, especially the MTR, played a key role in helping diagnose implementation-related
problems and proposing effective remedial measures (see also section 2.2). In this context, it
should be noted that supervision missions regularly traveled to remote, difficult-to-access
beneficiary communities. However, it did take until MTR in January 2005 to come to full
grips with underlying implementation issues.

70.     Also, a number of problems like delays in submission of FMRs and audit reports and
a non-functioning M&E system persisted on the side of the implementation agency. Lack of
relevant and timely information likely reduced the scope for effective supervision and
oversight of the implementation process (the construction, against expectations, of three
masonry dams­ see section 2.4 -, or the problem of "incomplete" subprojects ­ see 5.2 (b)
below ­ may be examples in this regard).

71.     There appear to have been shortcomings in the accuracy and consistency of ratings in
the Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs), which generally rated safeguards,
M&E, and financial management in the satisfactory or moderately satisfactory range
notwithstanding significant and persistent weaknesses in the implementation of these
elements of the program.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

72.     Overall, the Bank commendably responded to government appeal with a project that
addressed a range of relevant needs, with a design that helped achieve its outcomes
moderately satisfactorily and also generated some useful experience for addressing the
chronic problems of food insecurity and vulnerability.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

73.     With respect to the EDRP's quick disbursing component it is clear that Government
responded to the food security crisis of 2002/2003 by developing by late 2003 an ambitious
long-term national food security program, to which it allocated substantial budgetary
resources. The quick-disbursing resources made available under the EDRP were disbursed in
a sufficiently timely manner to enable the government to "contain" the negative
macroeconomic implications of the drought-induced crisis.



                                              18

On the other hand, although the government rightly pressed for greater devolution in
implementation arrangements, the coordination arrangements at the center (especially the
PMU) appear not to have been vested with sufficient oversight authority to guide project
implementation effectively. Similarly, the national steering committee, formed to help
coordinate inter-agency actions with respect to the targeted nutrition and school attendance
sub-components, seemed unable to provide the overall coordination and guidance that was
required. The PMU was not fully staffed all the time, and dedicated project coordinators for
the six regions were appointed only around MTR.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

74.     Given the differences in roles and responsibilities, it is helpful to distinguish the three
tiers of implementation involved. At the woreda level, it has to recognized that the local
administrations ultimately succeeded in fully disbursing the available funds. This was done
through a community-driven implementation process which was relatively new, with some
unfamiliar procedures (e.g., in procurement, see section 2.4) and more time consuming
processes. It was also achieved against a background of rising volume of food security
related projects (each with distinct operational modalities), overlapping responsibilities, lack
of sufficient operational budget, office equipment and transport facilities.

75.     However, this has to be set against an implementation experience which involved
substantial delays (e.g., there were significant time lags between approval and funding of
projects by woredas), weaknesses and delays in financial reporting, auditing and the de facto
non-implementation of the agreed M&E system which, in turn, has precluded a more careful
assessment of the actual project impact on the ground. In addition, while recognizing that this
appears to be a systemic problem, the failure to adhere to environmental safeguards screening
procedures identified in the ESMF is a matter of concern. Taken together, these shortcomings
compromised the quality of program implementation.

76.     At the regional level, the appointment of regional coordinators did provide the needed
impetus to implementation, although some gaps and weaknesses in oversight persisted
(including the puzzling problem of "incomplete" sub-projects ­ apparently, a number of
community sub-projects were approved for funding under the EDRP without checking
whether sufficient funds were available to fully finance these sub-projects). At the national
level, the quality of technical backstopping and supervision provided was satisfactory,
including the effort to undertake an end-user evaluation of project outcomes/impacts.
However, the effectiveness of the overall coordination effort remained weak.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

77.     Overall, against the backdrop of an on-going emergency, the government put together
a highly relevant project which achieved its outcomes moderately satisfactorily. While there
were notable weaknesses in relation to implementation and fiduciary processes, some of
these apparently represented generic (or system-wide) weaknesses, which could not feasibly
be addressed within the short, urgent operating horizon of this operation.



                                              19

6. Lessons Learned

78.    The following lessons arise from a review of the project experience:

· Quick project start-up: it is essential to ensure that implementation arrangements for
   emergency operations allow for a quick start-up. If innovative elements in design or
   implementation are introduced, the option of phasing them in should be seriously
   considered. In other words, the trade-off between innovation/learning and quick delivery
   on the ground should be explicitly faced in project design, and adequate guidance
   provided in terms of implementation arrangements and schedule.
· Prioritize the `relief' and `recovery' aspects of public work programs: public works
   essentially perform two roles: relief, through cash transfers associated with employment
   generated; and recovery, through the build up of (community) asset base. Emergency
   contexts sharpen the trade-off between the two, .e.g., the need to provide urgent relief
   may      compromise       technical      quality   or      arrangements     for    long-term
   `ownership'/sustainability. It is important for emergency projects to deal squarely with
   this trade-off by indicating the relative priority of `relief' versus `recovery' objectives in
   their PDO. This will lead to more consistent project implementation than ad hoc
   decisions taken at different levels on different merits.
· Project Development Objectives: A clear "results framework" (scope and specificity of
   objectives, congruence between project interventions and objectives, links between
   objectives and indicators, and the measurability of indicators), is critical to facilitate
   effective project implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
· Devolution and accountability: Implementation of national level projects through
   devolved arrangements (i.e., through provision of relative autonomy to lower
   administrative levels) is not feasible if there is a simultaneous loss of (vertical)
   accountability in terms of reporting on key financial and administrative processes and
   outputs. Without the required investments in systems and capacities to produce and
   provide      the    required      information,     meaningful       national-level    project
   coordination/implementation (in terms of, e.g., ensuring quality and consistency of
   implementation and undertaking mid-course re-allocation of project resources) is
   infeasible, and national level projects may risk becoming assemblages of non-uniform
   and partially scrutinized local initiatives.
· Community-driven implementation approach: this has helped in significantly building
   up local community capacities for project identification, planning, implementation
   (including procurement and financial management) as well as ex post operation and
   maintenance. It has also enhanced the relationship between communities and local
   authorities.
· Use of cash transfers in workfare programs: project experience confirms that the
   provision of cash transfers (as opposed to only food rations) in workfare schemes is
   helpful for building/protecting private assets. Further, allowing for cash to be used to
   purchase complementary inputs (i.e., materials and technical expertise) helps improve the
   quality, relevance and effectiveness of public works carried out.
· Authorized allocations to project Special Account: there is need to pro-actively
   consider larger than normal limits to authorized allocations in order to facilitate flow of
   funds in quick-disbursing emergency projects.
· M&E: it is critical to establish a robust M&E system, including arrangements for data
   collection and use, during the project design process. Persistent slippages in M&E



                                               20

    constrain the ability to calibrate implementation progress and make mid-course
    corrections as well as to draw lessons from the project experience for wider use.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
79.     No issues were raised by the Borrower. See Annex 8 for Borrower's comment on
issues regarding (i) outstanding audit, (ii) safeguards, and (iii) incomplete projects.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                                21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                 (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)          Appraisal

QUICK DISBURSING                            43.50              43.50
COMMUNITY INITIATIVES                       16.50              15.00
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                            1.70              1.80

            Total Baseline Cost               0.00              0.00

Physical Contingencies                        0.00              0.00               0.00

Price Contingencies                           0.00              0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs            61.70              60.30
Project Preparation Fund                      0.00              0.00                 .00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00              0.00                 .00
      Total Financing Required                0.00              0.00




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                                 1.70          0.30          .00
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT
VULNERABLE                                              36.00         36.00          .00

IDA GRANT FOR NATURAL
DISASTERS                                               24.00         24.00          .00




                                          22

Annex 2 (a). Outputs by Component

Quick Disbursing Component8
                  Indicator                          Unit       Baseline     End-of-Project            Actual End-of-
                                                                             Value projected Project Value (2006)
                                                                             in SAR/PAD
Macro-economy and social sector                         N/A           N/A             N/A              Social sector
expenditures not unduly disrupted by drought                                                           expenditures (excluding
and drought response.                                                                                  food security
                                                                                                       expenditures) which
                                                                                                       represented 8.6% of
                                                                                                       Government
                                                                                                       expenditures in
                                                                                                       2001/2002 increased to
                                                                                                       11% in 2003/2004.
Community Interventions Component
                  Indicator                             Unit         Baseline         End-of-              Actual End-of-
                                                                                      Project          Project Value (2006)
                                                                                       Value
                                                                                   projected in
                                                                                    SAR/PAD
1. Construction/Rehabilitation of Community Assets
Community sub-projects implemented                            No.          NA                  NA                        2,124
No. of community sub-projects in the
following areas:
·    Water development9                                       No.          NA                  NA                          648
·    Soil and Water Conservation10                            No.          NA                  NA                          591
·    Infrastructure Development11                             No.          NA                  NA                          304
Share of total component budget spent on
following sub-projects:
·    Water development                                         %           NA                  NA                         51.3
·    Soil and Water Conservation                               %           NA                  NA                         20.3
·    Rural Productive Infrastructure12                         %           NA                  NA                         13.9
·    Social Infrastructure                                     %           NA                  NA                         11.0
Individuals employed                                          No.          NA                  NA                      904289




8 With respect to the quick-disbursing component, it should be noted that it is difficult to isolate the (incremental)
impact of the Project to indicators such as inflation rate and macro-economic stabilization. Also, relevant target levels
were not defined in the PDO or the PAD. Hence, these are not reported here (see also discussion in section 3.2).

9 Includes pond construction, micro irrigation, pump irrigation, spring development and maintenance, hand dug well
construction and roof water harvesting

10 Includes construction of bunds, terraces, check dams, cut-off drains and waterways as well as range management
and tree plantation

11 Includes construction and maintenance of roads as well as rehabilitation of schools and health institutions

12 Mainly construction and maintenance of rural roads




                                                             23

- women employed                                          No.           NA              NA       363 725 (37% of total)
Average income per individual per sub-                   Birr           NA              NA                         340
project13
Physical outputs from sub-projects:
Soil and Water Conservation
     ·    Soil/stone bunds and terraces         kms (length)            NA              NA                       26976
     ·    Cut-off drains                        m3 (volume)             NA              NA                       77453
     ·    Tree seedlings planted               No. (million)            NA              NA                         13.4
     ·    Catchment area protected                        Ha.           NA              NA                        1029

Water Development
     o    Ponds                                           No.           NA              NA                         327
     o    Micro-irrigation                                No.           NA              NA                         137
     o    Pump irrigation                                 No.           NA              NA                            3
     o    Spring devt/maintenance                         No.           NA              NA                         332
     o    Hand dug wells                                  No.           NA              NA                         119
     o    Roof harvesting structures                      No.           NA              NA                          22
     o    Access to drinking water                     No. of           NA              NA                      172242
                                                  households
Infrastructure Development
     o    Access roads constructed/                      kms            NA              NA                        2940
          maintained
     o    School structures maintained                    No.           NA              NA                         368
     o    Health posts rehabilitated                      No.           NA              NA                          88
No. of community users (indirect                          No.           NA              NA                     1461430
beneficiaries) of assets created by sub-
projects
                                                                                                  2. Targeted Nutrition
Girl pupils assisted                                      No.           NA              NA                       18940
Share of total component budget spent                      %            NA              NA                          2.9
3. School Attendance
Amount of resources spent                               US $            NA              NA                      109859
Share of total component budget spent                      %            NA              NA                          0.7



Annex 2 (b): Key Macroeconomic Indicators (in context of the Quick Disbursing
Component)

Item                    Unit         2000/01   2001/02         2002/03      2003/04        2004/05        2005/06
Govt Economic            ETB
Devt Expend.             Million          3045         3926          4124         4774           7672         10426
- Agriculture            "                 523          950           929         1876           2889          3360
Govt Social              "
Expenditure                                896         1433          1745         2233           3290          3099
- Education             "                  601          730          1017         1666           1896          2479
- Urban Devt and         "
  Housing                                  116          163           210          165             828           17
- Health                 "                 165          522           488          346             505          519
- Culture and            "
   Sport                                    11           11            20           29              37           33
- Social Welfare         "                   3             7           10           26              24           50
Share of social          %
expenditure in                             5.5           8.6           8.8         11.0           13.4          10.6



13 Estimate based on a sample of 986 focus groups, representing 14083 households, who participated in an end-user
evaluation.




                                                        24

total government
expenditure
Inflation         % p.a.
- General         "           -5.2     -7.2    15.1       8.6      6.8    12.3
- Food            "          -10.6    -12.7    24.8     11.8       7.7    14.0
- Non-Food        "            4.9      1.6     1.6      3.2       5.4     8.9
Current Account   US $
Balance           Million    -629      -781   -709      -969    -1,521  -2,253
Exchange Rate     Birr/US$    8.33     8.54    8.58     8.62     8.65     8.68
Imports of:
- Agricultural    US $
 Capital Goods    Million     8.0      7.0     5.9      10.8     24.4      39
- Cereals         "           78.0    155.2   189.2     206.1   160.0    195.1
- Other Foods     "           32.0     53.3    42.5     62.9     87.0    137.6




Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not Applicable as not required for emergency operations under OP8.50




                                        25

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                          Title                Unit         Responsibility/
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
James Coates              Lead Agriculture Economist         AFTS2      Task Team Leader

Assaye Legesse            Sr. Agriculture Economist          AFTS2      Agriculture

Supervision/ICR
Assaye Legesse            Sr. Agriculture Economist          AFTS2      Task Team Leader
Samuel Haile Selassie     Sr Procurement Specialist          AFTPC      Procurement
James Andrew Keough       Consultant                         AFTP2      Operations
Satish Kumar              Consultant                         AFTS1      Operations
Rahel Lulu                Program Assistant                  AFCE3      Administration
Melesse Delelegn Shumetie Consultant                         AFTS2      Agriculture
Kalanidhi Subbarao        Consultant                        SASEASHD Safety Nets
Mulat Negash Tegegn       Consultant                         AFTPC      Financial Management
Abebaw Tezera             Consultant                         AFTS2      Food Security
Amdemariam Yohannes       Consultant                         AFTS2      Agriculture
Ingo Wiederhofer          Sr. Operations Officer             AFTS2      Task Team Leader
Azeb Fissha               Extended Term Consultant           AFTS2      Operations
Animesh Shrivastava       Senior Economist                    ARD       ICR Task Team Leader
Alex Mwanakasale          Agriculture Specialist             AFTS1      ICR Agriculture
Lewis Campbell            Rural Infrastructure Specialist    ESDQC      Infrastructure


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                         No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                            18                         112.36
  FY04                                                                          0.00
  FY05                                                                          0.00
  FY06                                                                          0.00
  FY07                                                                          0.00

                           Total:                 18                         112.36
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                             2                          12.55
  FY04                                            19                          47.90
  FY05                                            25                          77.49
  FY06                                            15                          20.48
  FY07                                            13                          21.74
                           Total:                 74                         180.16




                                               26

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Executive Summary

General Overview
The Ethiopia Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) is an IDA Grant designed as an
emergency response to the drought that affected parts of Ethiopia in 2002 ­ 2003. This drought
affected over 14 million Ethiopians. The total value of EDRP financing was US$60.3 million.
The purpose of this final impact assessment is to determine the impact of the project activities on
beneficiary communities and households with a view to:

    (i)     Informing the Implementation Completion and Results Report of The World Bank;

    (ii)    Informing future and ongoing drought mitigation and recovery interventions in
            Ethiopia.

Time and budgetary constraints limited the scope of the assessment to the following areas:

    (a) Socio-economic;

    (b) Social capital;

    (c) Public sector management and institutional aspects.

In assessing project impact in these areas the report draws primarily on the perceptions of local
government officials and project beneficiaries.

The report focuses on the social capital and public sector aspects of the project, partly because
quantitative M&E data is largely unavailable, but mainly because these are the areas of greatest
impact.

Specifically, the report highlights the importance of the project's community-driven development
(CDD) approach in making local development initiatives the vehicle for improved and sustained
interaction between citizens and local government.

Whilst the CDD approach shares certain aspects with other food security projects in Ethiopia (e.g.
the PSNP also requires community involvement in prioritising local development needs) its
distinguishing component, and that which is central to its achievements in linking local social
capital with local government, is the direct community-financing component.
Giving communities the opportunity to create project budgets, and directly manage financial and
material resources, has:

    · Liberated local social capital;

    · Supported it through the provision of training;

    · Enabled communities to devise systems of checks and balances to ensure transparency
        and accountability in management of resources;

    · Provided the resources that enable communities to put those systems and principles in to
        practice;

    · Linked community capacities with local government service providers;


                                                 27

    · Generated confidence at community level;

    · Convinced local government authorities of community capabilities to manage resources;

    · Created a basis for ongoing development-oriented interaction between communities and
        local government that is directly supportive of the Government's decentralisation
        programme;

    · Highlighted the possibilities for other food security projects14 to `think beyond' food
        security, and to consider directly supporting local social capital and linking it to service
        providers.

Implications for Government of Ethiopia and its Development Partners
Supporting the formation of social capital and promoting effective links between communities
and service providers are objectives that should be shared by all stakeholders in the sphere of
local development.

Meeting these objectives requires long-term commitments. Whilst primary responsibility for
supporting the development of the gains achieved by EDRP lies with the Government, degrees of
responsibility also lie with the World Bank and donor agencies funding other food security
projects.

Having successfully laid the foundations of the `substantive change in attitude and way of
operating within government services', the Government now bears the responsibility of
designing a follow-up to the EDRP that consolidates and develops the progress achieved.

The EDRP is currently being phased-out, and should not be renewed as a food security initiative.
The next phase of EDRP requires a paradigm shift from supporting food security to supporting
the generation of local capital for development initiatives, possibly through the provision of local
investment grants, and developing the collaborative relationships between representative
community structures and local government.

Whilst the CDD approach should form the core of the project design, the design should be
informed by further qualitative research in to the achievements and shortcomings of the EDRP.

As EDRP is phased-out other major food security initiatives will continue, including in areas
where EDRP has made significant progress in supporting the formation of local social capital and
linking it to local government. The lessons learned from the EDRP Impact Assessment are,
therefore, directly relevant to the implementation strategies of those projects, particularly the
PSNP.

The donor agencies funding the PSNP have the opportunity to adapt the implementation strategy
to incorporate the direct community-financing component and continue the development of
community capacities to manage financial and material development resources. This could be
approached on a pilot basis while the necessary research and design activities are conducted.




14OFSPs



                                                 28

The Government of Ethiopia is pursuing a decentralisation programme, a central conviction of
which is to increase collaboration between communities and local government in the planning
and management of local development initiatives. The direct community-financing approach
pursued by EDRP expressly addresses this conviction. The Government of Ethiopia, through its
own food security projects, and through its engagement with international donors, should promote
the principle that food security and local development initiatives should be oriented towards
supporting the formation of local social capital and linking communities with service providers.

Specific summaries

Socio-economic
    (i)     Respondents state that the project covered immediate food gaps, protected existing
            assets, enabled purchase of new assets and household goods;

    (ii)    Community-led targeting decisions on numbers of participants per household
            determine the extent of these impacts (limits vary between 1 ­ 3 participants per
            household, though in one instance poorest households could include "up to 10
            people");

    (iii)   Where impacts have greatest the circumstances of the participating households (`the
            poorest') have been "raised above" households identified as marginally `better-off'
            during community wealth-ranking processes;

    (iv)    An important indicator is seasonal labour migration; members of participating
            families are under less pressure to migrate in search of wage labour, and are therefore
            able to develop the family farming concerns. Members of marginally `better off'
            households continue to migrate in search of seasonal labour.

Social capital
    (i)     Respondents regard the quality of the participatory processes as having been open
            and fair15;

    (ii)    Community-led identification and prioritisation of local development needs has
            supported the formation, or development, of local social capital;

    (iii)   Direct community financing, and accompanying training, have enabled communities
            to devise systems of checks and balances to ensure transparent and accountable
            management of resources;

    (iv)    This has nurtured confidence in community-level capabilities to identify, plan and
            execute local development agenda, and to engage directly with local government
            service providers;

    (v)     The CDD approach has been employed to notable effect independent of the EDRP.

Public sector management and institutional aspects
    (i)     Training helped local government officials overcome initial concerns about the CDD
            approach, and opinion now is very strongly in favour;




15A more comprehensive survey of non-participant households is required to verify this
view



                                                 29

(ii)  This is particularly the case in relation to direct community financing, which was
      reported as having lower administration costs (than OFSPs), as being "easier and
      more cost-efficient" to run, and which "delivers more assistance to directly
      communities (than OFSPs)";

(iii) Local government respondents state that the involvement of communities in
      identifying and prioritising local development needs helps to align local government
      strategy with community needs;

(iv)  CDD, in particular the direct community-financing component, creates closer
      collaboration between communities and local government. As such, it is seen as
      directly supportive of the Government's decentralisation programme.




                                            30

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable.




                                  31

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

   EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY

                          PROJECT

                     (GRANT NO. H028-ET)




                           SUMMARY


           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
                         REPORT (ICR)




                                   FOOD SECURITY
                                COORDINATION BUREAU
                              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
                               AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT




                                                    December, 2006
                                           ADDIS ABABA, ETHIOPIA




                                  32

1. Introduction

The drought crisis in the year 2002 affected about 14.4 million people in drought prone rural

areas of the country. The situation was so intense that the Prime Minister launched the joint UN-

Government Appeal to the international community for assistance in averting a humanitarian

crisis. It was in response to this appeal Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) had

emerged and declared effective on May 30, 2003.


Main objective of the EDRP is to assist the GoE to respond to the drought emergency of 2002 and

support its efforts to i) help affected families survive the emergency, retain productive assets and

develop sustainable livelihoods, ii) put in place infrastructure and support mechanisms to mitigate

the medium term effects of current and future drought emergencies on vulnerable groups, and iii)

stabilize the macro-economy. EDRP was a three year project with a total budget of USD 60.3 out

of which USD 0.3 million is from the Government of Ethiopia. The project was implemented in 6

regional states ( Tigray, Amhara, SNNPR, Afar and Somali). The project operation has three

components: Quick disbursing component, community grant ( composed of community sub

projects, targeted nutrition and school attendance sub components) and Project management.


The community grants component is implemented using a Community Driven Development
(CDD) approach.


2. Implementation arrangement

EDRP is coordinated by a Federal PMU and regional coordinators. Project activities are

implemented and facilitated by the Woreda Development Committee and Kebele Development

Committee in collaboration with the Community through a CDD approach.




3. Physical activity performance of the project

Since the launching of EDRP, a total of about 2124 sub-projects are implemented in 418 Kebeles

under 35 beneficiary Woredas. Overall 904, 298 direct and 1,461,430 indirect beneficiaries are

able to benefit from the project out of which 37% are female.

Of the total sub projects about 27.8 % are soil and water conservation, 30.5 % water development

infrastructure development 30.3 and11.2 % girl's school attendance and targeted nutrition.

Amhara region comprised over 55 percent of the total sub-projects implemented so far followed

by SNNPR and Tigray (14 % each).



                                                  33

During the start of the project it was observed that there was implementation of the non illegible

community sub projects such as range management, construction of new schools, health services,

offices and other infrastructure and services that could be addressed by the government regular

programs.


4. Training and Implementation Support Workshops

Trainings to support implementation were provided on monitoring and evaluation, procurement,

finance, reporting systems, ESMF and RPF manuals. More than 300 regional and Woreda staff

involved in the project implementation benefited from these trainings. The trainings have

enhanced the skills of the staff and improved project implementation.


5. Financial Performance of the Project

Disbursement of project funds has been slow until FY 2005. Actions ( such as reallocation of

funds and increasing the authorized allocation) were taken after the mid term review of the

project and thereafter disbursement improved substantially


6. Impact Analysis

The expected impact of the project is retention of household assets and creation of community

assets, reduced stress migration, increased enrolment of girl students, and improved access to

food for affected pregnant & lactating mothers and children under five.


Impact on employment
Regarding the contribution of the sub-projects to reduction of unemployment in the kebeles,

almost all of the focus group agreed that the project has a positive impact in terms of providing

employment opportunity especially to the young population of communities. This in turn has

contributed to the reduction of seasonal migrations that would have been customarily made by

the younger portion of community members to areas where the opportunity is available.


Impact on income
Focus group discussions revealed that it was difficult for participants to differentiate the exact

amount of income they earned by participating on a single sub-project and the total income they

earned from all of the sub-projects in their respective kebeles. Average income of a participant

from a single sub-project is calculated to be 340 birr which indicates that there are many who

earned below this level.



                                                34

Impact on household asset recovery and retention
On average 50% of the beneficiaries lost their assets either by death or distress sales. 2-3 % of

them leased out their land to survive through the drought. Lose of these assets had negative

impact on their productive capacity and thus on their income.

Therefore households which benefited from the different EDR projects have taken important

measures to improve their asset level following the rise in their income and thus of improvement

in their buying power. Some of the participants bought productive assets; some of them expended

the money on consumable items to satisfy immediate needs of their households.

Even though there are some who manage to buy oxen there are a number of kebeles where

participants did not buy any bigger assets. But a significant number of participants in most of the

kebeles managed to buy smaller animals like sheep and goat including donkeys.


7. Unintended impacts: Benefits of target population and institutional capacity


The undertakings of different physical activities have contributed to improvements of the ways of

life of target community and increased availability of social services. Moreover during the

implementation process of EDRP in the last three years considerable achievements were made in

involving the beneficiary community in planning and implementation of their own development

initiatives.

This shows that CDD approach ensures relatively more socially sustainable sub projects since all

stages aim to have high degree of community participation through out the process though the

need for continuous efforts remain obvious by other stakeholders after phasing of EDRP.



8. Sustainability: Environment

To give more emphasis for the environmental aspect, the ESMF manual has been prepared for the

project during the evaluation. However, selection and inclusion of mitigation measures during the

environmental screening was not executed. As a result the review process was under taken on the

existing sub-project.


9. Lessons learnt

1. Targeting beneficiaries generally help reduce resource wastage, unnecessary consumption,

     improve the impact of interventions and direct resources to the very needy group of

     population. It also scales down the scope of interventions to the most manageable size, to



                                                35

  direct problem solving endeavors and a way to self-reliance. EDRP targeted the resource

  poor households who lack basic means of subsistence by chronic poverty caused by

  successive drought situations. Therefore, EDRP interventions could serve as supplementary

  and supportive to other rural development programs suffering from lack of experience in

  targeting their interventions and inputs.


  Targeting based on wealth group or any appropriate category might have cultural and social

  repercussions in most of the rural areas though such encounters are not common currently in

  the EDRP project areas. The problem of targeting was prominent mostly in pastoral and agro

  pastoral communities where social interactions, clan and family ties play an important role in

  the day to day life of the community and bases of coping strategy in most of the years. Age

  based divisions might have similar consequences, for example in nutrition interventions it

  was difficult to separate child of the poor and the well to do as drought prone areas mostly

  have high concentration of malnourished children irrespective of their wealth status.


2. The over all income a household earned from the project was not sufficient enough to build

  substantial amount of assets. Rather it assisted most of the households to replace assets such

  as shoats and very few bigger animals. For most of them the overwhelming

  proportion of the income earned was expended on food items and basic consumables. This

  may be because of the smallness of daily payment rates (6 birr/h) coupled with very few

  duration of household participation in most of the beneficiary woredas. However attempts

  made by few households to diversify their income by going in to breeding smaller animals

  and involving in petty trade are highly appreciable.


3. In most of the areas, only one household member participated in development activities

  planned by their respective community.        Had all able bodied members of households

  participated in the project, the cumulative impact of the project on livelihoods, particularly in

  asset creation and income would have been immense.           At the same time, most of the

  communities were unable to generate sub-project proposals on continuous basis which as a

  result, would provide continuous employment to wider number of potential participants in

  labor intensive development activities.


4. The direct implementers of the project (at the region, woreda and the community) have been

  provided with adequate training and familiarization on the modalities and technicalities of



                                               36

  project proposals, appraisal, approval, implementation, financing, reporting and evaluation.

  As a result, most of the projects are successful in most aspects particularly in technicalities.

  The training and awareness creation were not limited to community leaders but also to the

  direct beneficiaries capacitating them to discuss on their own issues, empower them to

  identify and give solutions to their basic problems, inculcating sense of ownership on project

  outputs and ensuring sustainability, promoting genuine participation and generally helping

  them to handle their own affairs by themselves with little external assistance. For regional

  and woreda level government staffs, the training was an opportunity and transition towards

  new thinking in project management, proposals preparation and implementation which would

  help them to implement other similar projects and programs in the future.


5. EDRP was run by very few staffs at the head office and decentralized project decision

  making power to regions, woredas and communities where only regular workers of concerned

  bodies are responsible to run the over all project activities at grassroots level.

  Unlike other projects, the project had no its own staffs (except at the head office) until the

  mid-term review.      This might have helped the project to reduce administration and

  management costs. But delays in fund transfers at the initial stage and lags in implementation

  were believed to come from absence of project staff at the regions and woreda levels.


  Recognizing the situation, regional focal persons were employed to improve performances.

  However except the speedy financial disbursement and sub-project implementation,

  important activities such as M&E and EIA were not accomplished as Expected. This suggests

  that when available government capacity to implement projects is limited employment of

  sufficiently qualified project staff would be important.


6. Project proposal preparation and approvals were generally lacking the necessary details for

  project documents that sub-projects were implemented with out appropriate financial,

  technical, institutional and management appraisals. This was generally because of

  inefficiency of woreda level technical teams which in turn was partly the effect of frequent

  turnover of trained staff members.


7. EDRP is a new project with a new approach. As a result, it has given the opportunity of

  selecting and adopting appropriate interventions for different livelihood systems.         The

  interventions in pastoral and mixed farming areas of the lowland and highland areas are

  distinctly different in that they are designed to address immediate needs of communities


                                               37

   except that they are all labor intensive. Sub-projects in the low lands are more on water

   development while in the highlands are more on soil and water activities. Therefore the CDD

   approach has helped to address needs of communities at different ecologies & livelihood

   systems.


8. The most important lesson learnt during the implementation of the EDR Project initiatives, is

   the realization of the Community Driven Development Approach (CDD). The initial stages of

   the project implementation show increased reluctance of the woreda officials towards the

   CDD approach. Increased effort devoted to its realization has proven

   that the approach, if properly practiced, is more appropriate to promote sustainable local

   development initiatives. In addition to improving the local planning, implementation and

   management capacities, it would also contribute to reducing the burden from the woreda line

   offices, which is critical in the face of the limited available human resource at woreda level.

   Field observations also show that, the more the CDD approach followed in project planning

   and implementation, the opportunity for the sustainability of developed assets is found to be

   in a better position. Lack of proper recording at woreda as well as regional level would limit

   the promotion of such an innovative model practices.


   In general, however, the CDD approach is a promising mechanism to approach the rural poor,

   make interventions problem oriented and community focused, empower the rural community

   to solve their problems, promote genuine community participation, enabling them to create

   and retain community as well as individual assets, and developing self reliance among the

   rural community which in the long run would enable them to cope up with drought and

   absolute poverty.

9. From the financial management point of view, important lessons learned include:

   · Develop financial management system in detail and applicable at all levels of

       implementing entities including the accounting system.

   · Organizational arrangements of implementing entities including staffing and delegation

       of authorities.

   · Allocating of proportional fund among expenditure category.

   · Delegation of authority to project management unit that ensures effective implementation.




                                                 38

    · Develop reporting formats that incorporate periodical progress of physical as well as

       financial and measures expectation against actual by major type applicable in CDD

       implementation approach.

    · Operating the bank accounts with reserve signatories.

10. Important lessons learned in the area of procurement management include

    · Develop sound procurement guideline applicable to community based procurement under
       CDD implementation approach.

    · Delegation of authority to project management unit to under take procurements with
       some threshold.


11. Recommendations


      · Community Driven Development approach should be given sufficient time to practice

         so that its appropriateness is well tested before using it on the various development

         interventions.


      · Trainings and awareness creation regarding the concepts of CDD and the different

         guidelines issued for its implementation must be frequently organized and provided to

         line government staffs and communities to improve their knowledge enabling them go

         through appropriate ways of project implementation and avoid confusions about the

         approach.


      · Necessary attention must be given to alleviate federal level procurement challenges as

         there is little improvement to speed up activities of procuring necessary goods and

         services.

      · Targeting of beneficiaries and eligibility for particular sub-projects cannot be the same

         for all areas. Therefore project designs should consider available distinctions between

         the livelihood systems in mixed farming communities and low land pastoralists as

         interventions in these systems must address the different socioeconomic needs of their

         communities.


      · Effort has to be put towards developing model bylaws that could serve as guidelines to

         communities to support their attempts of using local institutions in ensuring the

         sustainable use of constructed public assets.




                                               39

       · Program harmonization and integration along government offices, NGO's and

            communities is important for successful implementation of CDD type of project so as

            to avoid duplication of efforts.



12. Incidences of good practice


1. Financial disbursement and project implementation were lagging behind schedule at the

    initial stage of the project life. Repetitive follow up measures taken by members of the PMU

    team as well as the Bank's review missions have contributed their share to the final

    achievements that EDRP has registered.


2. Woreda officials were highly suspicious of the capacity of communities in handling project

    funds and management of finances by themselves while at the same time the biggest

    challenge to community level development committees was the fear of keeping large amount

    of money safely at their hands as they don't have appropriate facilities. However measures

    such as keeping money at nearby cooperative banks and withdrawal of money from woreda

    finance offices only when they make payments to beneficiaries were good solutions taken by

    communities themselves.


3. In addition to what the CDD approach provides to ensure the sustainable utilization of assets

    developed by the project, communities have made use of locally established institutions and

    bylaws to administer community assets. New institutions are also in place in areas where

    there are no such practices previously. Practices of Meket and Wadla woredas could be taken

    as examples. In Meket biologically treated area closures were distributed to unemployed

    young members of communities so that they benefit from the sales of collectable grass

    cuttings while guarding their respective plots until the area is sufficiently rehabilitated. Land

    around constructed ponds in Wadla was also similarly distributed for the production of

    horticultural crops and tree seedlings for commercial purposes which at the same time would

    ensure protection of ponds.




                                                   40

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                       41

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents

  EDRP, Technical Annex, Report No. T 7577-ET, March 2003
  EDRP, Aide-memoires of supervision missions and Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire,
  (January 2005)
  Project Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status and Results reports ( ISRs), 2003-
  2006
        i. Project Status Report #1, October 28 , 2003
       ii. Project Status Report #2, April 28, 2004
      iii. Project Status Report #3, June 25, 2004
      iv. Project Status Report #4, November 12, 2004
       v. Implementation Status and Results reports #5, April 22, 2005
      vi. Implementation Status and Results reports #6, November 07, 2005
      vii. Implementation Status and Results report #7, December 14, 2005
     viii. Implementation Status and Results report #8, June 19, 2006
      ix. Implementation Status and Results report #9, December 6, 2006
  EDRP, Development Grant Agreement, April 2003
  Ethiopia Risk and Vulnerability Assessment (Report No. 26275-ET)
  Ethiopia: Public Expenditure Review, June 2004 (Report No. 29338-ET)
  Ethiopia: Country Assistance Strategy, April 2003
  EDRP Qualitative Impact Assessment, Final Draft, June 2007
  Ethiopia Productive Safety Net Programme APL I: Project Appraisal Document, November
  2004
  Ethiopia Food Security Project: Project Appraisal Document, May 2002

Government of Ethiopia Documents

  EDRP, Implementation Manual, May 2003
  FDRE, Emergency Drought Recovery Programme (Draft), January 2003
  EDRP, Environmental and Social Management Framework, May 2004
  EDRP, End user Technical Evaluation Report, FFSCB, October 2005
  EDRP, Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA), MoFED, September 2002
  EDRP, Government of Ethiopia Implementation and Completion Results Report. December
  2006
  Update on the Current Situation and Assistance Requirements. A joint Government ­ UN
  Addendum. March, 2003
  Emergency Assistance Requirements and Implementation Options for 2003. A joint
  Government ­ UN appeal. December 2002
  Food Security Programme, New Coalition for Food Security in Ethiopia, November 2003



Other Documents

  Risk and Vulnerability in Ethiopia: Learning from the past, Responding to the present,
  Preparing for the future. A report for USAID, June 2003
  Evaluation of the Response to the 2002 ­ 03 Emergency in Ethiopia, October 2004




                                              42

