Report No. 1391b-PA
Paraguay: Appraisal of an Industrial Credit
Project through Banco Nacional de Fomento
Apríl 8, 1977                                                              FILE  COPY
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipíents
only in the performance of thewr official duties. lts contents mav not
otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since 1960:
US$1.00 0               126 Guarani
01.00                   US$C.008
¢1,000          =       US$7.94
01,000,000      =       US$7,937
LIST OF ACRONYMS USED
AID            United States Agency for International Development
AD        =    BNF's Agricultural Department
BNF            Banco Nacional de Fomento
CB             Banco Central del Paraguay
CD             BNF's Commercíal Departnent
COMDESA   =    Compania Paraguaya de Desarrollo, S.A.
DA        =    BNF's Department of Administration
DD        =    BNF's Development Department
EEC       =    European Economie Community
KfW            Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
IDB       =    Inter-American Development Bank
MA        =    Minístry of Agriculture and Livestock
NGP       =    National Grain Program
SMI       =    Small and Medium Scale Industry
UNDP           United Natíons Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
APPRAISAL OF AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGE BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Table of Contents
Pe No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....................       ................ . .  i - ii
I. INTRODUCTION .1...... ....1
II.   ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT .................... s .........               2
A.   Economic Setting . ..          ......                         2
B.   The Industrial Sector.......o......*........                  3
C.   The Financial System .........................                6
III.   BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO ..........................                8
A.   Establishment and Role ........................               8
B.   Organization ............ .           ...     .    .          9
C.   Administration. ..... . ........... ..           .           10
D.   Staff   . ........    ........                ....11
E.   Financial Structure and Results                              11
F.   Projected Operations, Financial Structure and
Results    .                                              18
IV.   THE DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT          .       ...........            19
V.   THE PROJECT......... .....                                        21
A.   Background . .......      .      ................            21
B.   Project Objectives   .      ....... .....                    21
C.   Project Description ..............o...........               22
D.   Project Benefits and Risks    ...... ........                24
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............               2.5
This report is based on the findings of appraisal missions, composed of
Messrs. Stoller, Reích, Nogales (all of the Bank) and Garcia-Rayneri (Consul-
tant), which visited Paraguay in March/April and July 1976, Messrs. Glaessner
and Knotter (of the Bank) joined the mission for final discussions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dsc¡wd without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   The Industrial Sector ín Paraguay
2.   Estimation of Costs of Bank Deposits
3.   Organization Chart, as of December 31, 1976
4.   BNF's Administrative Council, as of March 31, 1977
5.   Staff Composition by Specialties, as of December 31, 1976
6.   Consolidated Past Financial Statements (1971-76)
7.   Development Department - Portfolio Analysis, 1974-76
8.   Analysis of BNF's Portfolio in Arrears, as of December 31, 1976
9.   Analysis of DD Portfolio In Arrears, as of December 31, 1975
10.  Description  of "Other Asset" Account
11. Agreement between the Minister of Finance and the Presidents
of the Central Bank and BNF, on July 1, 1976
12. Financial Projections (1977-81)
13. List of Long-Term External Borrowing, as of June 30, 1976
14.  Employment and Foreign Exchange Impact of Previous Industrial Loans
15. Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures (draft)
16. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
17. Technical Assistance Program (UNDP)



PARAGUAY
APPRAISAL OF AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.     This report appraises an industrial credit project designed to: (a) help
restore Banco Nacional de Fomento's (BNF) institutional viability through a
nroaran coinbining financial rehabilitation wíth extensive technical assistance;
and (b) help remove a major constraint to levelopment by providing term credit
for high priority investment projects, mostly of small- and medium-scale enterprises
in the industrial, agroindustrial and tourism sectors. The proposed US$10 million .ank
loan, the first DFC-type operation in Paraguay and the Bank Group's second one
involving BNF, would be made to the Government of Paraguay and relent to BNF
mainly for use by its Development Department (DD).
ii.    During 1972-74 Paraguay's economic growth accelerated sharply to an annual
real rate of 7.2% from the 4.2% average annual rate attained in the preceding
five year period. Following a slowdown to a level of 5% in 1975 due to
temporary marketing problems affecting Paraguay's beef and wood exports, the
economy resumed its dynamic growth in 1976.  The good growth performance is
likely to be sustained into the coming years, partícularlS in view of the
impact of expenditures that will be incurred by Brazil and Argentina in,the
construction of two major hydroelectric projects and the expected contínuation
of a climate of financial and polítical stability.
iii.   The industrial sector  plays a critical role in the Paraguayan economy.
Its importance, much beyond that indicated by its share of GDP (15%), derives
from its close link with the agricultural sector. The structure of its
industrial sector reflects the relative openness of Paraguay's economy and, in
particular, the easy access to the country's small internal market by external
producers.  As a result, processed and semi-processed agricultural commodities
acccunt for about 70% of the country's exports and about 65% of industrial output,
which is in line with the country's comparative advantage.  Textiles, shoes, beverages,
furniture and hardicrafts for domestic consumption account for most of the balance.
Industry provides about one sixth of the total jobs. Most industrial enterpríses
tend to be small, with about half employing less than 10 workers.
iv.    BNF, the largest financial institution in Paraguay, was established in
1961 as a multípurpose bank. It provides 83% of Paraguay's total banking
credit for agriculture, 48% for livestock, and 44% for industry. As a
result of poor performance in recent years it is vírtually decapitalized. Of
its total outstanding portfolio of about US$113 million equivalent as of Deceraber 31,
1976, 22% involved accounts in arrears, some 50% of which for over one year.
The financial burden of BNF's substantial operating losses and the rapidly
growing demand for its services prompted the Government, in early 1976, to
appoint a new president and board of directors with a mandate to rehabilitate
the institution.  Thus, the Government and BNFts new management have requested,
in addítion to a loan, Bank assistance in developing a financial and institutional
rehabilitation program.



- ii -
v.       To restore BNF's financial viability the following main steps would be
taken: (a) the Government would provide BNF with US$19.3 míllion equivalent in
capital contributions during 1977-80, and (b) BNF would reduce its operating
costs by about 0.5% to 5.4% of portfolio by December 31, 1978, raise its interest
rate and commission structure to yield a minimum of 13% p.a. on new development
and agricultural loans, and reduce loan arrearages in accordance with a debt
recovery plan. BNF could not use more than US$4 million under the proposed loan
for sublendíng unless the Bank is satisfied with BNF's progress as of December 31,
1978.
vi.      To strengthen BNF's operational and management capabilities an extensive
technical assistance program would assist in upgrading financial management,
programming and budgeting policies and procedures, financial reporting and cost
accounting and planning of manpower and of agricultural credit operations. For
this purpose, BNF would retain experienced consultants, expected to be financed
under a UNDP technícal assistance project.
vii.     The loan proceeds would finance: (a) the foreign exchange component of
industrial, agroindustrial and tourism subprojects; and (b) up to US$250,000 of
the foreign exchange component of communications equipment to improve BNF's
communications with its often isolated branches. Interest rates and commissions
would result in an effective 13% charge per annum, including a 0.5% annual fee to
the Government for carrying the foreign exchange risk. Subloan terms would vary
between 4 and 12 years, with a maximum of US$750,000 permitted per project or
enterprise.  Some 85% of the loan funds would be used for small- to medium-size
projects and most of the balance for small subloans below US$10,000. Subloans
exceeding US$150,000 would require Bank approval. This "free limit" is justified
by the quality of DD's appraisal work.
viii.    Procurement would be in accordance with standard practice for Bank DFC
loans. Subloans would cover 100% of the direct import component of subprojects.
Disbursements would also be made for 60% of the documented local expenditure of
imported equipment and 25% of civil construction costs, representing the estimated
average foreign exchange component of these ítems. BNF would satisfy itself that
the goods and services financed are appropriate and competitive in price. The
communications equipment would be procured in line with the Bank's guidelines
for procurement.
ix.      The project's instítution-building and economic benefits would be
significant. Its direct employment generation is expected to exceed 2,000 jobs,
with substantial indirect employment creation effects due to the backward linkages
of the subprojects in the agricultural and forestry sectors. The average investment
per job is likely to be about US$10,000 (in 1976 prices). The impact of the sub-
projects on Paraguay's balance of payment should be significant: about 60% of the
loan proceeds would support exporting (mostly agroindustries) and tourism
enterprises, and the remainder, import substítution industries.  The average
economic rate of return of subloans under the loan is estimated to be about 20%.
x.       With the assurances obtained during negotiations (see Chapter VI) the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$10 miíllion on terms and conditions
customary for Bank DFC-type loans.



PARAGUAY
APPRAISAL OF AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Paraguay has applied for a Bank loan to help finance
mainly small- and medium-scale industríal, agroindustrial, and tourism develop-
ment projects in the private sector. The proposed US$10 militon loan, 1/ the
first DFC-type operation in Paraguay, would be made to the Republic of Paraguay
for relending to Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) and would be channeled mainly
through its Development Department (DD).
1.02      Established in 1961 as a public multipurpose bank, BNF is the largest
financial institution in the country and the main source of credit for agricul-
ture and industry. It is virtually the only source of term credit for srnaller-
scale enterprises. About 90% of BNF's portfolio of 26,000 development lcans
has been directed toward small and medium scale industrial and agricultural
enterprises. The proposed project is designed to lend support to BNF's lending
to small- and medium-scale industry (SMI) and thus foster industríal develop-
ment and growth. While the project would complement similar programs financed
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the German Kreditansta]t
fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) and other bilateral donors, it would also provide
funds for the financing of subprojects below US$10,000, mostly for artisans
and very small enterprises currently not benefitting from other sources. The
project would represent the second Bank Group involvement with BNF. Under the
first, IDA Credit 509-PA of 1974 for a Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development
Project, US$6.2 million are being channeled through BNF's Agricultural Diepart-
ment for small farmer credits. 2/
1.03      In recent years BNF has incurred substantial financial losses, due
mainly to high operating costs and an increasing burden of unpaid and overdue
loans; arrears currently ámount to almost one quarter of its total portfolio.
By late 1975 BNF's financial position reached a critical point endangering its
capability to service the development needs of the country. The Government,
recognizing that change was required, appointed a new management and boalrd
of directors with a mandate to rehabilitate the institution. Subsequently,
the Government and BNF's new management requested the Bank's assistance in the
formulation of an institutional and financial rehabilitation program for BNF.
Thus, ín additíon to helping to close the unfinanced gap in BNF's índustrial
credit program in support of priority SMI projects--which are designed to
increase employment and value added to agroindustrial exports--the project
1/  Up to US$250,000 has been included to improve BNF's telecommunication
system.
2/   A proposed Second Rural Development Project for US$22 million is being
processed parallel to the proposed loan.



-2-
would seek to restore BNF's creditworthiness and financial viability through a
program combining financial rehabilitation with extensive technical assistance
covering policies, operations and planning.
1.04      Following an assessment of the institution by the Bank, the Central
Bank (CB) and the Minister of Finance arranged for an interim financial
package in mid 1976 which, combined with the recapitalization requirements
under IDA Credit 509-PA, would assist BNF until the institution could develop
and begin to implement programs for its financial and institutional rehabilí-
tation. The programs associated with the proposed loan contain a series of
targets to be met by the end of 1978 which would lay the groundwork for
achieving the loan's longer term objectives. During that period BNF could
commit for sublending up to US$4 million under the loan.  Any further release
of Bank funds would be subject to a review by the Bank of BNF's satisfactory
progress during 1977-78.
1.05      After two preparation missions to Paraguay in March and August of
1975, two missions consisting of Messrs. Stoller, Reich, Nogales (all of the
Bank) and Garcia-Rayneri (consultant) appraised the project in March/April and
July 1976. Messrs. Glaessner and Knotter (of the Bank) joined the appraisal
missions for final discussions. This report is based on the missions' findings.
II.   ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
A.   Economic Setting 1/
2.01      Paraguay is a predominantly agricultural country of about 2.6
million inhabitants. Due to the country's land-locked situation and limited
transport infrastructure, transportation costs to the nearest seaports are
high. 2/  W-ile this has placed Paraguayan farmers and industrialists at a
substantial disadvantage compared to producers in neighboring countries, it
has led to a beneficial specialization in producing internationally competi-
tíve agricultural and livestock goods with high unit values. The relative
openness of Paraguay's economy, with little government control over the
productive sectors, has been another factor tending to foster efficiency in
the utilization of scarce resources in line with the country's comparative
advantage.
2.02      Understandably, agriculture and industry, which are the country's
main economic sectors (35% and 15% of GDP, respectively, in 1975), are closely
interdependent. About 98% of the country's exports are of agricultural
origín, two thirds of whích undergo some local processing; and industrial
output consists mainly (65%) of agroindustrial products (food, wood, tobacco,
1/   For details on the economy see Report "Medium and Long-Term Economic Pros-
pects of Paraguay," No. 899-PA, dated December 1975.
2/   For example, port transportation costs for soybeans, a major export crop,
can amount to one third of the f.o.b. prices.



chemicals and leather). Manufactured goods--mainly textiles, beverages,
footwear and petroleum products--account for only 35% of industrial produc-
tion.
2.03      The Paraguayan economy achieved a satisfactory overall real growth
of 4.2% p.a. during 1966-71. This rate accelerated to about 7% during 1972-76,
fueled by a strong rise in exports which has been supported by government
promotion and diversification programs and efforts to improve the country's
transport infrastructure. Industrial output, with annual average growth rates
of 4.6% during 1966-71 and 7.2% during 1972-74, closely paralleled GDP expan-
sion. Economic growth, which slowed down to 5% p.a. in 1975, recovered in
1976 despite the persístence of adverse factors such as the EEC ban on beef
imports and depressed demand for wood products.
2.04      Paraguay's medium- and long-term development prospects appear
promising, given the substantial benefits expected from the construction--
together with Brazil and Argentina--of two large hydroelectric projects and
the country's considerable potential for agricultural and agroindustrial
development. The vast hydropower resources will provide Paraguay with a
plentiful source of low cost energy and foreign exchange earnings. During the
construction phase (1975-84) the two projects will generate for Paraguay (in
1974 dollars) about US$20 million p.a. and, once ín operation, about US$37
million p.a., i.e., the equivalent of 10% and 18% respectively of 1974 exports.
Regarding agricultural and industrial production, external markets for the
main Paraguayan products (soybeans, cotton, sugar, wood, leather) are expected
to be strong.
2.05      The Government's development strategy of concentrating on the growth
of agriculture and agroindustries has been well focussed, given Paraguay's
resource endowment, geographíc location and market size. The country's latest
five-year development plan (1977-1981) emphasizes: (i) industrialization,
which is seen as a tool to increase the value added of primary production,
raise foreign exchange receipts, meet growing domestic demand for goods and
services, and reduce unemployment and underemployment; (ii) expansion of
transport infrastructure, to facilitate the flow of goods and services to
markets and export outlets; and (iii) land settlement, to increase productí-
vity and income of small farmers. Through increased foreign private invest-
ment and credit programs, such as under the proposed project, the Government
hopes to accelerate productive sector development, particularly in agro-
índustry. Real per capita income inereases of 35% during 1967-76 attest to
the soundness of the approach.
B.   The Industrial Sector 1/
2.06      General characteristics.  Although industrial production accounts
for only 15% of GDP, the sector's economic contribution is significant in
terms of exports of processed agricultural commodities, employment generation
1/   Annex 1 contains a more detaíled sector revíew.



-4-
and income distribution. Meat packing, wood processing, cotton textiles,
sugar refining, tanning and oilseed extraction industries play a key role in
increasing the value-added content of Paraguay's exports. Local primary
processing has helped to reduce transport costs, particularly of bulky
commodities, and to raise the quality of these products to international
standards, thus enhancing their marketing prospects.
2.07      About 50% of the country's labor force is employed in agriculture
and 15% in manufacturing, the balance comprising construction, transport and
service activities. Whíle unemployment is estimated at a low 3% of the total
and 12% of the urban labor force, underemployment may be as high as 50% of the
labor force in both urban and rural areas. These data reflect the seasonal
nature of agriculture and the related industrial processing activities that
depend on the availability of agricultural ínputs. The Government recognizes
that for some time to come agriculture, supported by the growth impulse of
the industrial sector, will continue to be the main source of employment.
2.08      Paraguay's industrial sector is characterized by the small size of
its enterprises, about one half of which employ less than ten workers. The
recent expansion of the economy, however, has been accompanied by the creation
of more modern, larger and often more efficient enterprises; the largest 15%
now account for about half the value of production. This trend is likely to
continue although there is ample room for expanding and improving the effi-
ciency of smaller enterprises. The proposed project is designed to assist both
smaller and medium size enterprises and particularly those investment projects
with good potential for generating employment and wage income in subsectors
such as textiles, construction materials, wood and leather (see Annex 1,
Table 9).
2.09      Industrial policies and investment climate.  In recent years,
Paraguay's investment climate has been favorable, aided by the country's repu-
tation for political stability, sound economic management, and the Government's
deliberate effort to create a policy framework conducive to the expansion of
prívate investment. Largely as a result of the 1970 Investment Promotion Law,
fixed industrial investment inereased in real terms at an average annual rate of
about 15% during 1971-74, i.e., substantially higher than the 4% growth achieved
during 1965-71. Annual industrial fixed investment (in 1972 prices) increased
from US$18 million to US$25 million during 1965-71, and reached about US$38
million during 1971-74.
2.10      The basic objective of the Investment Promotion Law has been to
foster the development of an efficient industrial sector. The law provides
tax holidays and import duty exemptions to priority projects judged to be
either "necessary" or "convenient," based on criteria laid down in the
National Development Plan. "Necessary" industries include mainly those
processing domestic raw materials for export, while the "convenient" category
covers mainly labor-intensive import substitution industries. All other



- 5 -
industries have to pay full taxes. 1/ The Paraguayan Technical Planning
Secretariat prepares annually a list of "necessary" and "convenient"
subsectors and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce grants the benefits
(by decree) for individual project requests. In order to facilitate project
implementation, the Government issued decrees granting benefits similar to
those under the Investment Law to subprojects financed with funds from inter-
national lending agencies. Assurances were obtained at negotiations; (i) from
the Government that it would grant similar benefits to subprojects financed
with the proceeds of the proposed loan, and (ií) that BNF would take appro-'
priate action to enable sub-borrowers to obtain these benefits.
2.11      Although nominal tariffs appear high, tariff protection, if any, is
low for most consumer products, given the substantial non-registered trade
across Paraguay's vast borders, particularly with the relatively industríalized
neighbor countries Brazil and Argentina.  This de facto openness has tended to
discourage the creation of inefficient import-substitution industries, favor-
ing the establishment of efficient, mainly export-oriented industries, based
on the country's comparative advantages. By providing new industrial projects
with reductions in and exemptions from taxes and duties, the investment law
tends to counteract the often negative effective protection for Paraguayan
industries, allowing a faster growth of the sector without creating undue
distortions in the economy.
2.12      The investment law also contains provisions designed to induce the
establíshment of industries outside Asuncion by providing for: (i) preferen-
tial loan conditions--still to be established--by BNF (interest rates terms,
grace periods and guarantees); (íi) preferential tariffs for public services;
(iMi) tax-free remittance of interest, dividends and royalties; and (iv) capi-
tal repatriation in the currency of the original investment, limited to annual
instalments of up to 20% of the investment value after the first 3 years of
operation. Some of the provisions, however, like preferential interest rates
and public service tariffs designed to encourage industrial decentralization,
are not likely to be effective, given the substantial advantages of being
located in or around Asuncion.
2.13      Growth prospects.  Provided sufficient financing is made available,
industrial output is expected to grow at an annual average rate of about 6i.6%
in real terms during 1977-80. This growth is slower than during 1972-76
1/   Benefits provided under the law include full exemption on capital trans-
fer and incorporation taxes. In addition, "necessary" industries obtain
tax exemption on capital goods imports, duty exemption on imported raw
materials for 5 years, and 50% reduction on income taxes for 3 years.
"Convenient" industries obtain a 70% duty reduction on capital goods, 75%
reduction in duties on raw materials for 2 years, and 35% reduction in
income taxes for 5 years. The average total taxes (including duties and
all other taxes) on imported capital goods of 82% of c.i.f. prices are
reduced to 26% for "convenient," and to only 15% for "necessary" indus-
tries.



-6-
(7%), mainly because the constraints imposed by the EEC ban on meat imports
and the sluggish Argentinian wood market have been assumed to continue through
1977. Otherwise, the growth rate could be higher, particularly íf the country
takes full advantage of opportunities for industrial development offered by
the construction of the ongoing Itaipu hydroelectric project. This should
provide particularly good prospects for the construction materials, beverages,
textiles and furniture subsectors. Consequently, manufacturing industries
alone are expected to grow at 8.3% p.a. during 1976-80, compared to 6.6% p.a.
during 1965-75. Agroindustries should maintaín, during 1976-80, the 5.5%
annual growth rate achieved during 1970-75, as higher growth in food and
tobacco production is expected to offset reduced rates of growth in the wood
and chemicals subsectors.
2.14      To reach a sectoral growth target of 6.6% per annum for 1976-80 it
would be necessary to mobilize both internal and external resources to finance
an industrial investment program averagíng about US$50 million per year (in
current dollars). Assuming no significant changes in the pattern of indus-
trial financing, equity and retained earnings will finance an average of US$26
million per year, development banks US$11.5 million (mostly BNF), commercial
banks US$6 million, and suppliers' credit US$4.0 million. The proposed
project would finance the estimated US$10 million resource gap in BNF's
industrial credit program through 1980.
C.   The Financial System
2.15      General.  The main components of the Paraguayan bankíng system are
the CB, which also operates the Livestock Fund, 1/ BNF, 13 mostly foreign-
controlled commercial banks, COMDESA (a small private development bank), and
a housing bank. BNF is the largest institution, holding 37% of the banking
system's total outstanding portfolio in 1975, whereas the commercial banks
accounted for 47%, the Livestock Fund for 10%, and the other institutions for
the remaining 6%.
2.16      While BNF has been the main source of term lending (85% of the total
outstanding), loans over 360 days by commercial banks have been rísing from
2.7% of their combined outstanding portfolio in 1971 to 7% in 1975. COMDESA
has also been providing limited amounts of term funds. Short-term lending, on
the other hand, has been provided mainly by commercial banks, which account
for about 95% of total commercial credit. Although commercial loans typically
average 90 days, they are frequently rolled over, raísing their effective term
to close to one year.
2.17      Although the banking system has mobilized resources at a substan-
tially faster rate than the rate of expansion of GDP, the outstanding loan
portfolio has been rising only at about the same rate as the economy (5.4%
annual average in real terms since 1965), mainly as a result of the Govern-
ment's restríctíve monetary policies that have been controlling money supply
1/   It is being used as a channel for Bank lending.



- 7 -
through high reserve requirements equivalent to 42% of deposits. Thus, to
finance its portfolio growth, the banking system had to intensify its resource
mobilization efforts, 1/ increasing its deposits at 12% per year in real terms
since 1965 and doubling its size relative to GDP from 7% in 1965 to 13.5% in
1975.
2.18      The Government has followed strongly anti-inflationary fiscal and
incomes policies, with some success.  Annual inflation averaged 1.8% during
1965-70, i.e., among the lowest in developing countries, but it rose to an
average of 13.5% during 1970-75, mainly as a result of adverse international
economic developments during 1973 and 1974 which helped push inflation rates
to 13% and 25%, respectively. Contractionary policies, however, have succeeded
in reducing inflation to an estimated 6% in 1976, and it is expected to remain
at about that level during the next five years. Overall, the Government has
been quite successful in balancing its restrictive credit and monetary policies
with development needs. It limited CB rediscounting to assisting productive
enterprises (agricultural, industrial or exporting firms) and decreed that: 55%
of the commercial banks' portfolios must be allocated to them (CB ResolutiLon
No. 3). Other policies designed to control credit and monetary flows inc]Lude
prior import deposits and withholding taxes on foreign private loans.
2.19      Interest rates and term structure.  While interest to savers 2/
remained close to the average inflation rate (7.5%) between 1965-75, lend-
ing rates have generally been positive in real terms. Yields on commercial
bank portfolios have averaged about 15% per year, ranging from about 12.5%
for productive sector loans to 23% for commercial activities, providing a
relatively high 6% spread over the 9% average cost of funds. (See Annex 2 for
details.) During the next five years interest rates are expected to remain
positive in real terms, which should enable the banking system to maintain its
satisfactory past growth rates.
1/   In order to stimulate the growth of savings deposits by foreigners, re-
serve requirements on these deposits have been set at only 15%, compared
to 42% on deposits in domestic currency. Thus, while foreign exchange
saving deposits pay 7.5% interest in line with interest rates on local
currency deposits, their effective cost to the banks is substantially
lower than on local funds. As a result, foreign exchange savings accounts
in commercial banks have been growing much faster than those in local cur-
rency--from US$4.2 million in 1971 to US$15.9 million equivalent in
1975--and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Currently the
banking system holds US$22.2 million equivalent in foreign exchange.
These funds have provided an important source of finance for agricultural,
agroindustrial and industrial investment.
2/   Ranging from 6% on 90-day deposits to 8% for those of up to 360 days;
interest rates on accounts for over 360 days are negotiable.



- 8 -
2.20      Interest payments on private foreign loans include a 30% withholding
tax, which brings their costs about in line with domestic funds. A private
foreign loan at 9%, plus withholding tax and 1% commission for the inter-
medíary bank, costs the final borrower about 13%, which is close to the
average effective interest rate for productive loans under CB Resolution
No. 3 1/ and to the proposed relending charge by DD under the project (para.
5.03).
2.21      Industrial financing.  Industrial investment has been financed in
recent years by roughly equal shares of equity and retained earnings (55%) and
credit (45%). This is a marked change over 1963 when the former accounted for
about 80% of total industrial financing. BNF's industrial lending, especially
since 1964, has been important for improved industrial financing and accelerat-
ing output growth.
2.22      BNF accounts for 44% and commercial banks for about 29% of total
industrial credit; suppliers' credits account for much of the rest (COMDESA
contributed only marginally). Suppliers' credits to industry have increased
substantially, advancing from 2.5% to about 25% of total industrial credit in
1971-75, as commercíal banks' liquidity tightened and BNF's untied resources
for industrial lending declined.
2.23      BNF has mainly been lending for fixed asset purchases while commer-
cial banks have been concentrating on working capital financing. Whatever
the sources of credit, however, terms of lending in Paraguay tend to be short.
The average maturity of commercial bank loans to industry is about 300 days,
wíth only 10% extending beyond one year. Suppliers' credits provide average
terms of around three years. Since only about one third of BNF's industrial
portfolio has maturities over four years, there is a need for BNF to provide
for longer maturities, particularly considering its importance as a source of
industrial credit to SMI (para 5.04).
III.   BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
A.   Establishment and Role
3.01      Established in 1961 to succeed the bankrupt Banco del Paraguay, BNF
is a government-owned, autonomous entity under the authority of the Ministry
of Finance with the mandate to promote and finance general programs and
1/   Resolution No. 3 of 1972 permits commercial banks to allocate up to 45%
of their portfolio to commercial lending at a maximum interest rate of
12% p.a.; commissions, however, are not regulated. For loans to produc-
tive activities the Resolution establishes: (i) annual interest rate of
10% plus commissions of 2% for up to 240 days; 2.5% for 240 days to one
year; and 3% for over one year; and (ii) Central Bank rediscount at 5%
interest for 20% of loans between 240 days and one year.



specific projects ín agriculture, livestock, forestry, industry and commerce.
Being the most important source of credit in the country, BNF has been playing
a crucial role in furthering Paraguay's economic growth.
3.02      BNF's most critical contribution is its financing of agriculture,
providing 83% of total credit to the sector. Its assistance to a large number
of small farmers is particularly important, as BNF programs for land clearance
and term credit for farm implemrents have permitted them to participate very
significantly in the production of Paraguay's most valuable crops.  Farms of
up to 20 hectares currently produce about 60% of cotton, 70% of tobacco, 63%
of sugar cane and 27% of soybean, and account for about one third of total
exports.
3.03      Its agricultural lending, labor intensive and costly, exposes BNF
to risks inherent to agriculture, such as sharp fluctuations in prices, poor
crop yields, and closing of export markets. These risks are very substantial
in a small economy like Paraguay's, where a negative event can affect a Iarge
part of the country's agricultural production. To protect BNF from thesei
risks, its Organic Law stipulates that "the State shall provide BNF with the
necessary funds to cover BNF's agricultural losses, should they exist" (Article
12). This Article, however, has proven to be largely ineffective. First, the
Government has been replenishing BNF losses at a slow rate (para. 3.23) and
second, the Article may have discouraged attempts by BNF to reduce its high
operating costs, thus tending to contribute to a weakening of the institution's
financial condition. Since 1971 BNF has suffered continuous heavy operating
and portfolio losses; it is virtually decapitalized and its high personnel and
overhead costs and poor debt collection record prevent it from operating
profitably. The proposed project would support programs designed to restore
fully BNF's creditworthiness and viability (para. 5.02).
B.   Organization 1/
3.04      BNF is a complex institution composed of three rather independent
lending departments, each with its legally separate capital, financial re-
sources and accounting; they are supported by the Department of Adminis-
tration (DA). The three lending departments, each under a director, are:
(i) the Development Departnent, charged with industrial and agroindus-
trial development banking functions but also providing some term loans to
the livestock sector. DD's 03.8 billion year-end 1976 portfolio (27% of BNF's
total) has mainly been financed with substantial long-term concessionary funds
from bilateral financial agencies (AID and KfW) and IDB; (ii) the Agriculture
Department (AD), the largest of the three departments, holding 60% of BNF's
total portfolio and performing the role of an agricultural development bank,
with a 08.6 billion portfolio devoted mainly to annual crop financing and term
financing of agricultural capital goods; and (iii) the Commercial Department
(CD), which has mobilized ¢4 billion in current and savings deposits, holds
a g1.8 billion portfolio (13% of BNF's total) of short-term commercial loans
and provides 01.2 billion to the AD for agricultural credit.
1/   For BNF's organization chart, see Annex 3.



- 10 -
3.05      The banking functions associated with the operations of the three
lending departments and BNF's treasury functions are carried out by the
division of banking operations under a banking directorate composed of the
directors of the three lending departments. The DA is responsible for the
operations and management of BNF's 38 branches and agencies, widely spread
throughout Paraguay, as well as for accounting, loan collection, legal and
personnel matters, and maintenance and services.
C.   Administration
3.06      BNF is governed by an Administrative Council (Annex 4), composed o,
BNF's President (Chairman) and seven members, each of whom has one vote.
Decisions require at least five affirmative votes.  The President, who is
BNF's legal representative, is appointed by the President of the Republie
for a period of five years; the other council members are also appointed by
the Government, but only for three-year renewable terms. They comprise one
representative each from the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture, and Industry
and Commerce, the Central Bank and the agricultural, livestock and industrial
sectors. The Council is responsible for formulating BNF's general policy and
approval of operations, programs, budgets and accounts. The Council has
delegated to the departmental loan commíttees limited loan approval power;
the maximum for departmental approval by the DD is ¢2 million, which is
reasonable.
3.07      Since the appointment of BNF's new President and Board of Directors
in February 1976, management has undertaken a series of actions designed to
reorganize the institution, including nominating new directors and assistant
directors for each of the lending departments and the DA. To improve collec-
tion of loans in arrears, a new collection office was created and legal work
was centralized. BNF's new management also merged the commercial banking
functions of the division of banking operations into the CD to avoid duplica-
tion and increase both commercial banking and debt collection efficiency.
Furthermore, BNF agreed at negotiations to establish by year-end 1977--with
assistance from the proposed technical assistance program (para. 5.02)--
an office of financial management, programming and budgeting, operating
directly under BNF's presidency, to improve BNF's overall decision making
capacity and the management of its resources.
3.08      BNF's second level managers are still in the process of adapting to
their new responsibilities and it is too early to gauge the broad results of
the changes in the departmental management. However, several managers have
already made improvements in significant segments of their operations: AD
management of the sales programs of farm inputs has much improved, the DD has
rapidly organized ítself to improve the small loan appraisal process and
increase its lending volumes, and the CD has sharply expanded both deposits
and lending operations.



- 11 -
D.   Staff
3.09      As of December 31, 1976, BNF had 985 employees, about 60% of whou
worked in BNF's headquarters, and the remainder in 38 branches and agencies
located throughout the country (Annex 5). About one half of headquarters'
staff are engaged in lending operations--the balance in accounting, adminis-
tration and support functions. The branches' and agencies' staff mostly carry
out banking, lending, technical assistance and supervision actívities.
3.10      Staff management and development has been largely ignored over the
past years and little attention has been given to issues of salaries, leave
and other benefits, like training, career paths, and termination. In an
attempt to improve the resulting low staff productivity and morale, the
personnel office, which under the new administration was given division
status, has been strengthened and has begun to review possible improvements
in personnel policies. While turnover among economists and accountants has
been low, BNF has had substantial difficulties in keeping qualified financial
and banking specialists, especially in branch offices, as private banks have
been offering higher salaries and better career opportunities. The new
salaries and career policies and programs being developed by the personnel
division, in addition to a 25% salary increase granted as of January 1976, are
expected to have a favorable impact on staff productivity and reduce turnover
among professional staff.
3.ii     ZWile BNF lacks sufficient agricultural and financial specialists"
its staff is very large in comparison to its workload. This has resulted
in excessively high operating expenses amounting to about 6% of BNF's 1975
average portfolio. As part of the financial rehabilitation plan, BNF agreed
to reduce its operating expenses by about one-half percent to 5.4% of its
average portfolio (Annex 12, Table 3) by December 31, 1978. With the projected
30% growth in portfolio in 1976-78 (Annex 12, Table 1) BNF should be able to
achieve this goal, notwithstanding the need to: (a) upgrade some salaries :in
the near future and (b) adjust salaries for the expected inflation rate of 6%
p.a. in 1976-80.
3.12      Presently, BNF is providing extensive technical assistance to small
farmers who receive loans through its rural branch offices.  While better
coordination between BNF and the Ministry of Agriculture (MA) would be desir-
able--as the latter's extensionists, if upgraded, could perform some of the
high cost services currently provided by BNF--it is unlikely that this objec-
tive can be achieved in the short run.  In the medium term, under the Bank
Group's Rural Development Projects, attempts are being made to bring the MA's
extension service in the project areas into closer cooperation with BNF, so
that MA might in time expand its activities from general extension to farm
planning.
E.   Financial Structure and Results
3.13      Since 1971 BNF has been beset by a series of heavy portfolio losses,
initially from the National Grain Program (NGP) (Annex 10), and more recent:ly
as a result of the Agricultural and Commercial Departments' inadequate lending



- 12 -
policies and collection procedures (para. 3.20). In addition, BNF invested
very heavily in farm inputs that were not readily marketable and sharply
expanded its operating costs in the face of declining financial income
(Annex 6). By the end of 1975 BNF was virtually illiquid and would have
been unable to meet its 1976 debt repayments to the CB, had they not been
rescheduled (para. 3.25). At the request of the Bank a detailed independent
audit was undertaken to determine the carrying value of BNF's principal asset
accounts as of July 31, 1976.
3.14      The external auditor estimated that BNF's principal asset accounts
were overstated by 01.2 billion, 1/ thus reducing its equity from «1.7 bíllion
to ¢573 million. The audit also revealed that only 61% of BNF's total assets
generated income, compared with 73% of total assets at year-end 1971, result-
ing in gross revenues of only about 7.5% of total assets in the past few
years.
3.15      Taking into account the findings of the external auditor and the
results of its own portfolio review, BNF decided to take additional provisions
(mostly for bad debts) of 01,021 míllion as of December 31, 1976. Combined
with operating losses of 053 million, the increase in provision resulted in
reducing BNF's total equity by 01,072 million in 1976. Government contribu-
tions of «531 million only partly offset BNF's equity erosion and, conse-
quently, the institution's total debt/equity ratio increased from 8:1 in 1975
to 12.9:1 at year-end 1976. These developments are reflected in BNF's un-
audited financial statements for 1976 (Annex 6).
3.16      Portfolio guality and provisíons. 2/  As of December 31, 1976 BNF's
total reported arrears amounted to 22.0% of outstanding porfolio, as against
11.6% a year earlier. In addition, the auditors have indicated that there
are still significant unreported arrears, especially in the branch offices.
Reported arrears at year-end 1976 were substantially higher at headquarters
(28.0% of outstanding portfolio) than in the branch offices (15.2%). BNF's
auditing staff, together with the external auditors, has initiated a program
of visits to BNF's 38 branch offices, to determine the level of arrears and
develop a collection program, which should be completed before December 31,
1977.
1/   Based on a partial review of BNF's portfolio and of other major asset
accounts, the external auditor recommended that provisions be made on
the following assets accounts:  Portfolio, 0616 million; National Grain
Program (NGP), 0381 million; Interest Receivable, «102 million; and
Merchandise, 0108 million (see Annex 10 for detaíls).
2/   For additional information on portfolio, see Annexes 8 and 9.



- 1 3 -
3.17      The large difference in estimated arrears between 1975 and 19.6
largely reflects: (a) substantial under-reporting of arrears by branch
managers; (b) incomplete and inaccurate reporting on status of accounts,
especially in the AD; and (c) management, internal accounting and auditing
procedure deficiencies. To improve record keeping, portfolio accounts at
headquarters are being computerized. This enabled the external auditors to
obtain up-to-date information on the status of these loan accounts. IDB is
financing a technical assistance program in support of BNF's efforts to
computerize its accounts. BNF's entire portfolio, including all of the
branches' portfolios, will be computerized by the end of 1977, enabling
BNF to have accurate information on overdue accounts for the entire organiza-
tion.
3.18      As of December 31, 1976, the CD had 30% of its total portfolio in
arrears, the DD 11% and the AD 25%. These sharp differences among departments
reflect major discrepancies in departmental adherence to BNF's loan appraisal,
supervision and loan collection procedures and policies 1/ as well as the
different efficiency of former department directors. They also reflect, to
some degree, the somewhat greater risks associated with agricultural lending.
3.19      Under the terms of IDA Credit 509-PA, BNF was to take a series of
steps to reduce the level of loans in arrears, including: (a) strengthening
its collection division and loan collection procedures; (b) recovering no less
than 20% of the still outstanding portion of NGP loans made prior to December
31, 1972; (c) presentíng a plan to recover outstandíng princípal on the remain-
ing NGP loans (Annex 10) by May 1983 and outstanding interest by May 1988; and
(d) presenting a plan to reduce all other BNF arrears to no more than 10% of
the loan portfolio of each lending department by September 6, 1976. The first
two conditions have been met substantially, and, regarding the third, the
external auditor has provided BNF with a portfolío revíew of the NGP accounts.
To accomplish fully the last two objectives, BNF has formulated and adopted a
debt recovery plan (including detailed follow-up and collection procedures),
for its entire portfolio, with assistance from its external auditor and the
Bank. The recovery plan includes collection goals 2/ commensurate with BNF's
organizational and manpower capacity.  BNF has agreed to prepare and adopt a
manual for debt collection and implement the debt recovery plan, both to the
Bank's satisfaction, prior to loan effectiveness.
1/   In accordance with existing policy, DD, in 1975, sent all small- to medium-
size loans that were overdue by 60 days to the Collection Division. As a
result 108 (80%) of these loans were processed successfully.  However,
the CD requested administrative collection for only 33 and the AD for
only 3 loans.
2/   Reduction of total BNF arrears to 15% of total loan portfolio by
December 31, 1978 and to 10% by December 31, 1979.



- 14 -
3.20      In order to reduce the level of loans and ínterest in arrears, BNF
needs to improve overall management of its lending, supervision and debt
collection procedures. Specifíc deficiencies include: (a) inadequate port-
folio supervision; (b) inadequate collateral and insurance coverage of loans;
(c) making new loans to clients in arrears without analyzing sufficiently the
clients' financial position and insisting on a satisfactory recovery plan;
(d) lack of follow-up reportíng including failure to obtain financial state-
ments of clients; (e) lax collection procedures; and (f) inadequate communi-
cation with and direction of branch banking operations. Improved lending,
supervision and collection procedures will be incorporated in BNF's policy
statement (para. 4.03) and debt recovery plan. The implemerLtation of satis-
factory policies and procedures will be the subject of Bank review as of
year-end 1978 (para. 5.06). Improved communications with branch offices would
require the purchase and installation of communications equipment (para 5.09).
3.21      BNF's financial rehabilitation is dependent partly on the outcome of
FINAP, a large wood industry project in which IFC holds an important invest-
ment 1/. As of December 31, 1976 BNF had an excessive exposure in this project
of about 0800 million in loans and ¢265 million in guarantees, equivalent to
81% of BNF's equity. 2/ Moreover, the FINAP project has recently encountered
cash flow problems and will require refinancing. BNF has been requested to
provide 0336 million in 1977-78, of which 1156 million would be a 5-year loan
and 0180 million would involve rescheduling of outstanding principal and
interest due BNF. Thus BNF's exposure under this project, which is already
tco high, could increase even further. Assurances were obtained that:
(M) the Governnent would compensate BNF for any losses that could arise from
any loans or guarantees granted to any one project or borrower (including
FINAP) in excess of 30% of BNF's equity and (ií) BNF will limit its financial
support (including guarantees) to any one project or borrower to an amount not
to exceed 30% of BNF's equity, unless BNF's exposure above this limit is
covered by a specific government repayment guarantee.
3.22      Liabilities and equity.  BNF's resources consist of its paid-in
capital; of sight, term and savings deposits from the public and private
sectors; of CB loans and discounts; and of loans and credits from foreign
1/   For a project description, see Report IFC/R75-50.
2/   The National Economic Coordinating Council by Resolution #3 Act#35 of
November 12, 1976, authorized BNF to refinance the wood project and
waived the provisions of Art. 35, Sec. (a) of Law 417, which establishes
a ceiling for bank lending to any borrower equivalent to 30% of a bank's
equity.



- 15 -
commercial banks and development agencies. 1/  Between 1971 and 1976, BNF's
liabilities increased from 07.8 billion to 017 billion, as deposits from the
public and external debt doubled and CB loans for AD relending almost
quadrupled. Meanwhile, equity (mostly paid-in capital) declined from its
1971 level of 01.7 billíon to 01.3 billion, mainly as a result of operating
losses and portfolio write-offs. As a result, BNF's capital structure has
been weakened and its total debt/equity ratio increased from 3.4:1 in 1971
to 12.9:1 in 1976. This ratio would be reduced to 6.6:1 at the end of 1977
as a direct result of the equity replenishments outlined below.
3.23      In order to:  (a) compensate for past decapitalization and for
estimated future losses until BNF achieves break even in 1978 (para. 3.35)
and (b) provide a sufficient capital base for BNF to support future borrow*-
ing, the Government agreed during negotiations to make a 01.3 billion capital
contribution to BNF prior to loan effectiveness. 2/ During 1977-80 BNF would
receive additiGnal capital contributions as a result of: (i) prior commitEments
under IDA Credit 509-PA to capítalíze a US$8 million IDB credit; (íí) recapí-
talizing BNF with a sum equivalent to 10% of BNF's capital, according to the
July 31, 1976 agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the CB and BNF (Annex
1l); and (iii) under the same agreement, a commitment to compensate BNF for
part of the losses covered under Article 12 (para. 3.03) with payments of
0126 million per annum. The above measures would provide BNF with additional
capital of 02.4 billion (US$19.3 million equivalent) during 1977-80 (as shown
in Table 2 below) and would enable BNF to achieve and maintain a sound capital
structure. 3/ BNF's authorized capital would be increased from its present
02,600 million to a level sufficient to permit the capital increases.
1/   Development institutions have channeled several loans and credits through
BNF, in addition to IDA Credit 509-PA. Since 1963, IDB has made seven
loans through BNF for a total of US$33.6 million to assist the agricul-
tural and industrial sectors and to finance extensive technical assist-
ance to BNF; and KfW has made three loans to BNF for a total of DM34
million to help develop the industrial sector. Finally, AID has granted
three credits to BNF since 1965 for a total of US$9.1 million, mostly to
assist small farmers (Annex 13).
2/   The Government would issue 01.3 billion of 25 year bonds, yielding 2%;
p.a., to be subscribed to and repaid (out of its annual net profits) by
the CB, and make the proceeds available to BNF.  These, in turn, would be
used by BNF to repay an equivalent amount of long- and short-term debt to
the CB.
3/   In addition to these measures, the Governnent has taken several important
steps in 1976 toward meeting BNF's capital requirements by: (a) converting
into capital 0322 million of counterpart funds contributed for past opera-
tions; (b) capitalizing 0210 million under the US$8 million IDB credit;
and (c) compensating BNF for «60 million in accumulated Article 12 losses.



- 16 -
Table 2:                       BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
FINANCIAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Sources and Schedule of Government Contríbutions (1977-80)
(in millíons of
Loral
1977   1978    1979    1980    1977-80
1.  Capital Contributions Committed
Previously
(i)  IDB Loan 407-SF/PR, to be
repayed by the Government
on BNF's behalf                    483 1/   -        _       _       483
(íi)  Budgetary contribution
equivalent to 10% of BNF's
paid-in capital                    150               -       -       150
(iii)  Compensation for Art. 12
accumulated losses                 126      126    126        126    504
Sub-Total              759       126    126       126  1,137 (US$9.0
míllion)
2. Capital Contribution Agreed
at Negotiations                       1,300        -      -         -   1,300 (US$10.3
-                       miílion)
Total Capital Contributions           2,059       126    126       126  2,437 (US$19.3
__--   -      míllion)
1/ The IDB Credit is capitalized as subloans under the credit are disbursed. On March
29, 1977, about US$2.5 million of the original US$8 million credit was cancelled,
leaving a balance of about US$5.5 million to be capitalized.



- 17 -
3.24      In connection with BNF's recapitalization program, assurances
were obtained at negotiations that BNF would adhere to a total debt/equity
limit of 8:1. This would counter BNF's tendency to borrow short term, whíle
permitting CD the greater leverage required by commercial banks. 1/
3.25      Liquidity.  At the beginning of 1976, most of BNF's G2.85 billion
debt to the CB was due within one year and BNF would have found it impossible
to repay it on schedule. However, under the July 1, 1976 agreement the CB
rescheduled BNF's debt to be repaid in 13 years, including 2 years of grace,
and reduced its interest charges form 6% to 4% p.a. As a result, BNF's
liquidity position has improved and as of December 31, 1976 it was in
excess of the 1.1:1 requirement established under IDA Credit 509-PA. 2/
3.26      Profitability.  Since 1973 BNF has been incurring losses from
operations, mainly due to high operating costs and financial expenses which
grew more rapidly than its low financial income. In 1976, BNF's financial
spread amounted to 5.3% on its average portfolio 3/ but operating costs
reached 5.8%, resulting in an operational loss (exclusive of provisions) of
¢59 million.
3.27      At the departmental level, efforts to increase operating profit-
ability would need to be concentrated on the Agricultural and Commercial
Departments. The DD has been able to maintain an adequate annual operating
profit on its average portfolio of about 3.0% during 1972-76. During the same
period the CD only broke even and the AD incurred operating losses which
amounted to as much as G316 miliíon in 1976 (or 4.0% of its average portfolio).
3.28      Despite its high average 17% interest rate on its commercial port-
folio, the CD has not been operating profitably partly because of inefficiency
in commercial banking. Reductions of CD's excessive operating costs, equiv-
alent to about 5.8% of its average portfolio, are critical for improving not
only CD's performance but also for strenthening BNF's overall financial
situation.
1/   Paraguayan commercial banks, on average, have a term debt/equity ratio of
8.5:1 and total debt/equity ratio of 11:1.
2/   IDA Credit 509-PA and IDB Loan 407/SF-PR have limited BNF's long-term
debt/equity ratio to 4:1 and have established a minimum liquidity ratio
of 1.1:1. BNF formally complied with the first limitation until July 1,
1976, when BNF's short-term debt to the CB was rescheduled to improve
BNF's overall financial structure. However, its term debt/equity
ratio rose to 5.6:1.
3/   Financial income and expenses were 11.2% and 5.9% respectively of average
portfolio.



- 18 -
3.29      To strengthen its financial position, BNF needs to:  (a) reduce
costs by improving operating efficiency and (b) increase financial income.
With support under the technical assistance program BNF is expected to estab-
lish a cost accounting system and to improve its present policies for control-
ling costs. Together with improvements in planning and cost accounting this
should provide a basis for systematic cost reductions. To achieve the second
goal, BNF agreed to raise interest rates and financial charges on new loans
made by the DD and AD to yield on average at least 13% p.a.
3.30      Accounts and audits.  Separate accounts for each of BNF's three
operating departments are maintained and later consolidated. Accounts are
subject to control by BNF's internal auditor, and BNF's records and accounts
are reviewed by the Superintendent of Banks for compliance Witil banking
regulations. BNF's accounts are audited aqnually by the Argentinian firm of
Harteneck Lopez y Cia. Past audit reports were qualified rezardinR the
carrying value of BNF's main asset accounts and the level of arrears and
interest income. The detailed audit of about 50% of BNF's portfolio (as of
July 31, 1976) and continued auditing efforts in 1976-77 should improve
substantially the quality of information on BNF's accounts. BNF agreed at
negotiations to employ the services of external auditors, acceptable to the
Bank, to prepare annually long form audit reports, substantially in accordance
with the Bank's "Illustrative Form of Audit Reports for Development Finance
Companies." This should lead to a substantial improvement in the quality and
coverage of the auditors' work.
F.   Projected Operations, Financial Structure and Results 1/
3.31      Projected operations.  BNF's total loan portfolio is expected to
grow by 13% p.a. nominally, or about 7% in real terms, during 1976-81, ¡.e.
in line with GDP growth of 8% p.a. projected for that period. Expected annual
growth rates in loan portfolio in 1976-81 differ among the Departments of
Development (13%), Agriculture (12%) and Commerce (18%), reflecting, inter
alia, varíations in. investment demand (DD), likely resource availability (AD) 2/,
and expected technical capacity and increases in savings and checking deposits
(CD). Depending on future demand, resource availability and improvements in
BNF's loan processing capacity, actual portfolio growth could surpass
projectíons.
3.32      Financial structure.  BNF's capital structure will sharply improve
in 1977 as a result of the capital replenishment expected from the Governmnent
(para. 3.23) and BNF's debt/equity ratio ís expected to decrease to 6.6:1 at
year-end 1977 and to 5.8:1 by 1981. During all of 1977-81, BNF's liquidíty
should remain ample, with a current ratio of about 1.7:1.
1/   See Annex 12 for details.
2/   Additional resources are expected from the Bank (proposed second rural
development project), KfW, IDB, and AID.



- 19 -
3.33      BNF's total assets (in current prices) are expected to increase at
an annual average rate of 9.5%, from ¢18.3 billion in 1976 to about 027
billíon in 1981. Mainly as a result of the strengthening of loan collec-
tion efforts (para. 3.20) about «1 billion of presently non-income generating
assets are expected to become part of BNF's active portfolio, which would
increase from 011.2 billion to 022.0 billion in 1976-81). Thus, BNF's active
portfolio (net of arrears) could reach 75% of BNF's total assets in 1981,
compared with only 51% in July 1976, increasing BNF's earnings generation
capability.
3.34      About 40% of the growth in BNF's assets in 1976-81 is expected to
be financed from checking and savings deposits, 1/ and about 30% each from
increased borrowings and equity contributions.  Bank Group funds would amount
to about one third of BNF's total borrowings outstanding during 1976-81.
3.35      Profitability.  Due to the still necessary increase in provisions
BNF is expected to incur a relatívely modest loss (about 084 míllion) un 1977.
Rowever, as a result of higher interest rates 2/ and a growing portfolío, BNF
should at least break even (after provisions) in 1978. Assuming that the
economy grows as projected and, more importantly, that BNF implement success-
fully its rehabilitation program, BNF would show substantial profits starting
in 1979 (0274 million) and reaching 0483 million in 1981. 3/
IV.   THE DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
4.01      Operations and results.  DD, which would administer the proposed
loan 4/ has been engaged mainly in the financing of manufacturing índustry
and of agroindustrial and artisan activities. As of year-end 1975, 90% of its
1/   Total deposits are expected to increase at 8% p.a. from q4.3 billion
in 1976 to about «6.4 billion in 1981.
2/   From 11.2% on average outstanding portfolio in 1976 to 12.6% in 1978 and
13.3% in 1981.
3/   With operating costs declining from 5.8% in 1976 to 4.3% in 1981, much of
this improvement would be due to higher efficiency in BNF's operations.
4/   Except for up to US$250,000 for telecommunications equipment.



- 20 -
03.5 billion portfolio supported these sectors; the remaining 10% was for
financing of livestock. Much of DD's lending has been oriented towards small-
seale industrial and service enterprises, including artisans and mechanics.
Thís is reflected in the size distribution of DD's 1,503 loans outstanding as
of December 31, 1975 (of which 90% were for less than 03,000,000, and almost
50% for less than 0300,000) and its low average loan size of about 02,000,000
(Annex 7).
4.02      On average, DD has been financing some 60% of total project costs.
Reflecting the distribution of its resources, two thírds of DD's financing
has been in foreign exchange and 90% of its funds have been used for purchases
of equipment and machinery. In line with the concentration of the country's
industry, about 70% of DD's funds have been granted to projects located in and
around Asuncion. Given the good growth prospects for generally more diversi-
fied wood, food and textile projects, the geographical distribution of DD's
lending can be expected to improve during the next five years.
4.03      DD has a history of efficient operations.  With expenses equivalent
to about 2% of average portfolio, DD has been profitable, achieving a return
of about 1.5% on average portfolio (after provisions) ín recent years. There
is a need, however, to strengthen DD's operating policíes. While BNF's
Organic Law and DD's lending manual provide reasonably comprehensive general
guidance for DD's development banking operations, present policies are not
specific enough in several respects. With Bank assistance, BNF has prepared a
draft Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures (Annex 15) including
guidance for DD's operations. Approval of a satisfactory Policy Statement
by BNF would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.04      Appraisal.  The quality of DD's appraisal work is generally accep-
table. Its appraisal team, under the supervisíon of an experienced section
chief, includes seven well-trained professionals. Technical assistance
provided by the IDB, including the preparation of a detailed appraisal manual,
has made an important contribution to upgrading DD's appraisal capacity.
While the manual provides for a thorough review of market, technical, finan-
cial and economic aspects, DD is only beginning to calculate financial and
economic rates of return for subloans. Agreement was reached at negotiatíons
that internal economic rate of return calculations will be prepared for all
Bank-financed subloans in excess of US$150,000 í.e., the proposed "free limit"
under the project (para. 5.07).
4.05      Supervision.  DD's small supervision staff of five professionals is
insufficient to follow up on a portfolio consisting of over 1,500 loans. In
particular, visits to clients are rarely made due to a lack of personnel and
vehicles. Follow-up focuses on problem projects and on those cases where DD
staff feels it can provide useful advice on project implementation. As a
condition of IDB's most recent loan, 402/SF-PR, which is being channeled
through DD, a plan for expansion and improvement of supervision activities
will be implemented by DD. While this should improve DD's supervision work,
there remains a need to establish a system for obtaining and reviewing syste-
matically up-to-date financial statements from clients. During negotiations
DD's progress and further action toward improving supervision were discussed.



- 21 -
4.06      Procurement and disbursement.  Procurement procedures are adequate.
especially for purchases of imported equipment, for which DD follows require-
ments established by AID, IDB and KfW. While clients normally have to submilt
quotatíons from at least three suppliers, DD does not yet include an adequate
rationale for procurement in most subloan appraisals and gives too little
attention to whether the goods and services to be purchased are suitable for
the project and reasonably priced. Satisfactory procurement guidelines will
be included in BNF's Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures. Disburse-
ment procedures are satisfactory to ensure that funds are used for their
intended purpose.
V.   THE PROJECT
A.   Background
5.01      The proposed US$10 million loan would be the second Bank Group
operation involving BNF. Under the first, IDA Credit 509-PA, IDA sought to
bring about some institutional improvements in BNF.  So far BNF's performance
in executing the credit component is satisfactory although the institutional
improvements have fallen far short of expectations (para 3.19).  The proposed
project will seek to strengthen and broaden the scope of BNF's institution-
building efforts.
B.   Project Objectives
5.02      The proposed project has two main objectives:  one, to help BNF
restore its viability through a program of institutional and financial rehabi-
litation, and two, to help finance high priority projects in the private
sector. To achieve the first objective the following measures need to be
undertaken:
(i)  Implement over a two-and-one-half-year period a comprehensive
technical assistance program (Annex 17), which would seek to
improve BNF's:
(a)  financial and resource management by establishing
a programning and budgeting system;
(b) general data collection and cost accounting procedures
to provide management with meaningful operational,
financial and cost information;
(c) agricultural planning and credit analysis; and
(d)  capability in manpower planning and personnel training.
To assist in this effort, assurances were obtained during
negotiations from the Government and from BNF that BNF would
retain the services of experienced consultants (totalling



- 22 -
about 96 man/months) satisfactory to the Bank. UNDP has
agreed in principle to finance this technical assistance
program, estimated to cost about US$500,000;
(íi) recapitalize BNF by increasing its paid-in capital by
about US$19.3 million equívalent during 1977-80;
(iii)  break even on operations by December 31, 1978 by reducing
operating costs to 5.4% of average outstanding port-
folio, increasing financial charges to average not less
than 13% of new DD and AD loan portfolio and improving
loan collection; and
(iv) formulate and adopt improved financial and operating
policies for BNF, including policies and procedures
to protect BNF against excessive risks or costs
resulting from major development initiatives.
C.   Project Description
5.03      The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange component of
industrial, agroindustrial and tourism 1/ subprojects. About 85% of the
proceeds of the loan would be utilized for financing small to medium size
subloans not exceeding US$750,000 and the remainder, for subloans below
US$10,000, mostly to benefit artisans and very small enterprises.  The loan
would be made to the Governnent of Paraguay at the current Bank interest rate
(now 8.2% p.a.) and the standard commitment fee of 314 of one percent p.a. It
would be onlent to BNF (for use by DD) on equal terms and conditions, except
that BNF would receive funds denominated in guaranies and the Government would
add a fee of 1/2 of 1% for covering the foreign exchange risk. BNF would
relend the Bank funds in local currency at an interest rate (12% at present)
plus commission sufficient to yield not less than 13% p.a.
5.04      Subloan terms would range between 4 and 12 years with an average of
about 9 years. Grace periods included in these terms are expected to vary
between 1 and 3 years. To ensure sufficient terms for subborrowers, subloans
would be made for a minimum of 4 years.  The usual composite amortization
schedule for Bank DFC loans would apply for the proposed project.
5.05      The proposed project is expected to finance about 100 small- to
medium-sized subprojects of an average total cost of about US$190,000, and
about 100 small-scale subprojects of an average total cost of US$16,000. Bank
funds would amount on average to about 50% of total project costs. A signi-
ficant percentage of subloans would support new projects.
1/   Tourism projects are expected to absorb only a small part of the pro-
posed loan.



- 23 -
5.06      Initially, BNF could utilize up to US$4 million under the proposed
loan for sublending. The authorization to commit the remainder of the loan
would be subject to an examination by the Bank as of December 31, 1978, of the
progress achieved ín BNF's rehabilitation, focussing on: (i) reduction in
total arrears in accordance with the debt recovery plan agreed upon at nego-
tiations; (ii) satisfactory operation of the office for financial management,
programming and budgeting, to be created by BNF; (iii) reduction in operating
costs to no more than 5.4% of the average outstanding portfolio; and
(iv) effective increases in the interest rates and fínancial charges on new
loans made by the Development and Agricultural Departments to yield on average
at least 13%. This review would also provide a good opportunity to consider
possible adjustments in BNF's rehabilitation program.
5.07      To avoid excessive concentration in relending Bank funds, a maximtum
limit of US$750,000 per subloan and subborrower would apply. The US$150,000
limit for subloans requiring prior Bank approval would be similar to the "free
limits" established by IDB and KfW. DD would prepare internal economic rate
of return calculations for all subprojects above this amount. 1/ The proposed
limit is justified, given DD's experience in evaluating projects.  Appraisals
would be prepared for subloans over US$50,000 and brief summaries for those
below that amount. During supervision míssions, Bank staff would review a
sample of the medium- and small-size subloans.
5.08      The terminal date for the submission of subloan proposals under
the loan would be September 30, 1980, and the closing date for disbursements
September 30, 1982.
5.09      Up to US$250,000 of the proposed loan would be available to help
finance the purchase of equipment to improve BNF's communications system in
order to strengthen management control over operations of BNF s widely dis--
persed branch offíces. BNF agreed to submít for Bank review a detailed
analysis, including costs, of alternative systems, in line with the Bank's
guidelines for procurement.
5.10      Except for the purchase of communications equipment, procurement
would be in accordance with standard practice for Bank DFC loans. Disburse-
ments of funds from the loan would cover:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures of imported equipment and
machinery, and of services and the initial stock of raw
materials;
(b)  60% of local expenditures for imported equipment procured
locally; and
(c)  25% of local expenditures for civil works.
Annex 16 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements.
1/   Some 20 subloans under the project are expected to be above the "free
limit," representing about 40-50% of the total loan amount. Economic
analysis of smaller subloans would mainly focus on subsector and employ-
ment considerations.



- 24 -
D.   Project Benefits and Risks
5.11      The project's institution-building and economic benefits would be
significant. Technical assistance and capitalization have been designed to
strengthen BNF's institutional capabilities and improve its financial struc-
ture and operations. The proposed loan would assist BNF to maintain, during
1977-80, its historical 20% share of industrial fixed asset financing, and
thereby help to achieve the expected average industrial growth rate of 7 to 8%
per annum through 1980.  Subloans would support mainly small- and medium-size
enterprises to finance their investments with term credit, and would help
maintain Paraguay's economic growth momentum, which relíes heavíly upon the
development of an efficient agroindustrial sector.
5.12      The direct employment generation related to the project is expected
to exceed 2,000 jobs with the average investment likely to be close to
the estimated average of US$10,000 per job (in 1976 prices) under recent KfW
and IDB industrial lending to BNF (Annex 14). In addition, a substantial
indirect employment effect is expected from the project due to backward
linkages in the agricultural and forestry sectors, given that about two thirds
of the proposed loan would finance agroindustrial projects. The ímpact of
subprojects on Paraguay s balance of payments should be substantial. About
60% of the loan proceeds is expected to be lent to exporting and tourism
enterprises, and the remainder to import substitution industries. Total
exports after full ímplementation of subprojects should reach some US$12
íiloJ, and net foreign exchange gains abour US$8.5 million annually both ín
1976 prices. The average economic rate of return of subloans under the
loan is estimated to be about 20%.
5.13      The possibility exists that BNF may not fully succeed in its
institution-building efforts.  The new management faces a series of difficult
decisions and tasks which can only be carried out successfully with
continuing strong support from the Government. The risk in executing the
lending component of the proposed project does not appear to be higher than
usual for DFC-type operations. First, the loan would be made to the Govern-
ment of Paraguay for relending through BNF's DD, whích has a proven record of
ability to administer credits for productive purposes. Secondly, the Bank
would review all subloans over the "free limit" of US$150,000, and a substan-
tial number of the smaller subloans under regular supervision procedures.
Thirdly, the Bank would dedicate a substantial amount of staff time to this
project. In addition to the supervision efforts there would be continuous
contact with BNF during the execution of the two-and-one-half year technical
assistance program. Finally, the performance review prior to the release of
the second part of the proposed loan would provide ample opportunity to detect
and agree on appropriate measures to deal with potential problem areas.



- 25 -
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal poínts:
(a)  With the Government on:
(i) making a 01.3 billion capital contribution to BNF
(para. 3.23); and
(ii) assuming the risks on any BNF fínancing of any one
project or client exceeding the equivalent of 30% of
BNF's equity (para. 3.21>.
(b)  With the Government and BNF on:
(i) arrangements to ensure implementation of the proposed
technical assistance program to BNF (para. 5.02);
and
(ii) relending terms and conditions of the proposed loan,
including the foreign exchange risk coverage and access
to Bank funds in excess of US$4 million (paras. 5.03-5.10).
(c)  With BNF on:
(í) implementing a debt recovery plan acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.19);
(ii) reducing operating costs to 5.4% on the average out-
standing portfolio by the end of 1978 (para. 3.11);
(iii) adjusting interest rates and financial charges on loans
made by the Agricultural and Development Departments to
yield on average at least 13% p.a. (para. 3.29);
(iv) establishing an office for financial management,
programming and budgeting (para. 3.07);
(v) a total debt/equity limit of 8:1 (para. 3.24);
and
(vi) preparing internal rate of return calculations for
all subloans over US$150,000 (para. 4.04).



- 26 -
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that BNF:
(a) adopt a satisfactory Statement of Operating Policies
and Procedures (para. 4.03); and
(b) prepare and adopt a manual for debt collection and
implement the debt recovery plan, both to the Bank's
satisfaction (para. 3.19); and
(c) has received and utilized 01.3 billion in capital contri-
bution (para. 3.23).
6.03      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$10 million to the Republic of Paraguay on the terms
and conditions outlined in Chapter V.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
The Industrial Sector in Paraguay
A. Overall Characteristics and Performance
1.        The industrial sector plays an important role in the Paraguayan
economy. It accounts for about 15% of GNP, 70% of the country's foreign
exchange earnings and 16% of total employment. The sector's economic sig-
nificance is highlighted by its close interdependence with the agricultural
sector--about two thirds of Paraguay's exports are processed and semiprocessed
agricultural goods. This processing has helped reduce transport costs for
bulky commodities, increased value added and also raised the qualíty of
Paraguay's products up to the standards of international markets, enhancing
their marketing prospects. An industrial development strategy designed to
maximize the utilization of the country's domestic resources is likely to
be successful in fostering the sector's growth performance. Within this
context, there is ample scope for deepening the agroindustrial process and
for expanding the production of construction materials based on the country's
good quality clay and limestone deposits.
Table 1:  COMMODITY EXPORTS BY DEGREE OF PROCESSING
1965              1974               Unit Prices
Value       %     Value       %         1965        1974
(thousands of US$)                 (in US$/T'on)
Processed                 25,458    44.5   68,362    40.6         292.6       391.2
Semiprocessed             14,292    25.0   60,239    36.0         184.9       314.8
Unprocessed               17,286    30.0   39,907    23.0          57.8       228.7
Others                       231      0.5       333     0.4        90.5       225.4
Total                     57,267   100.0  168,042   100.0         122.9       312.0
Source:  Secretaria Tecnica de Planificacion, Banco Central del Paraguay
and IrMision de Diagnostico Industrial, PNUD/ONUDI."
2.        The industrial sector consists of about 22,650 enterprises, most of
;¡hich are relatively small--about 50%Ó of these enterprises employ less than
ten workers. However, the largest 15%, most of which were established during
the last ten years, account for more than half of total production. This
trend towards larger and more efficient production units is likely to charac-
terize the development of the sector in the near future.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        The índustrial sector is highly concentrated in the capital city
of Asuncion where three out of four enterpríses are located. This con-
centration is a result of Asuncion's relatively good public services, access
to export outlets, and its relatively large market as compared to the rest
of the country. The Government is interested in decentralizing industry
and, through the recently reformed Investment Promotion Law, it grants fiscal
incentives to industries located outside Asuncion. Decentralization, never-
theless, may proceed at a slow pace because the location advantages of
Asuncion are unlikely to be offset in the near future. Overall, industrial
con.een,attc,rl does not appear to be a major problem, given Paraguay's rela-
tively incipient stage of industrial development.
4.        Consumer and intermediate goods account for the bulk of the sector's
output (94%), since capital goods are still at a very early stage of develop-
ment, accounting for a relatively small share (6%). Consumer goods (food,
textiles, footwear, etc.) account for the largest share of the industrial
product (53%) but have been expanding at a lower rate than intermediate goods.
The latter have benefitted more from the strong external demand.
Table 2: INDUSTRIAL VALUE ADDED
1970                      1974
Value Added                Value Added                    Ave.
(in millions                (in millions                 Growth
Industry            of 1972 guar-  Percentage  of 1972 guar-  Percentage   Rate
anies)           %         anies)            %           %
Consumer Goods          7,407         57.0         9,115           53.0         5.3
Intermediate Goods      4,605         35.0         6.956           41.0        10.9
Capital Goods             960          7.5           979            6.0        0.5
Total                  12,972        100.0        17,050          100.0         6.7
Source: Central Bank statistics and mission estimates.
5.        Eight subsectors aecount for 85% of industrial production.  Food
processing is the single most important activity and accounts for more than
one third of the total. Overall, the sector's structure has not changed
significantly during the last ten years.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Table 3: STRUCTURE OF INDUSTRIAL GROSS PRODUCT
AND AVERAGE GROWTH RATE (1965-74)
(in percentages)
Average
1965        1970        1974       Growth Rate
(1965-74)
Agroindustries
Food                            41.7        37.6        36.6           3.5
Tobacco                          4.7         3.9         2.9            1.0
Wood                             4.1         5.3         6.8           13.0
Chemicals                        8.4         7.9         6.1           2.5
Leather                          5.5         4.6         5.7            7.0
Others                           7.0         8.0         7.0           5.0
Subtotal                     71.4        67.3        65.1           4.5
Manufacturing Industries
Beverages                        4.2         6.3         4.8            7.5
Textíles                         8.1         5.9         5.4           5.0
^^tt.Te or              ~~ ~~~~. /,  3, a        i  1          @  
Petroleum Products                -          4.5        10.6          24.4
Construction Materials           3.5         3.8         3.2           5.0
Others                           8.4         8.3         7.8           5.0
Subtotal                     28.6        32.7        34.9          10.9
Total                       100.0       100.0       100.0           6.3
Source: Central Bank Statistics.
6.        During the last ten years, industrial production expanded at an
average annual rate of 6.5%, slightly above the average growth rate of 5.2%
for the whole economy.  From 1970 to 1974, the sector's growth rate accelerated
to 7.2%, reaching 9% in 1974.  This acceleration in economic growth was made
possible by a rapid rise in external demand and an effective supply response.
The latter was induced by appropríate governrnent policies, like the investment
incentives provided under the new ínvestment law; by expanded availability of
investment credit and an expansion in domestic demand.
7.        During the 1965-74 period, the most dynamic subsectors were petroleum
refining, construction materials, wood, and beverages.  Their growth rate was
twice the average growth rate for the sector as a whole. On the other hand,
production of food, footwear and chemicals expanded at a rate equivalent: to
one half of the average. The food and footwear subsectors, both heavily



ANNEX 1
Page 4
dependent on the domestic market, faced stiff competition from illegally
traded goods that restrained their growth performance. The stagnation of
the chemical subsector resulted from the gradual depletion of quebracho tree
reserves, the primary input for the tannin extract industry. Other activities,
however, (textiles, leather, and beverages) kept pace with the sector's rate
of growth.
8.        The rapid expansion of the economy helped reduce the overall level
of unemployment of about 4% of the labor force. Due to the cyclical nature
of agriculture and agroindustrial activities, however, it did not succeed
in reducing the level of underemployment that affects more than one-half of
the labor force. In urban areas, where unemployment is estimated to be at
12%, and underemployment at 52%, unemployment and underemployment are more
serious problems that affect mainly unskilled workers due to the shortage of
skilled manpower, technicians and well-trained managers. The Government is
currently implementing a comprehensive vocational training program to meet the
manpower requirements of the economy.  This program, by providing basic and
upgrading courses covering a wide range of activities, will benefit unskílled
workers, who account for about 57% of the industrial work force. Through this
program, the Government also hopes to increase productivity, which, in the
industrial sector, is about the same as that for the economy as a whole. The
industrial sector accounts for 24% of the total labor force, and the industrial
work force, which is growing at a moderate rate of about 3.3% per annum,
slightly above Paraguay's population growth rate of 2.6%, is expected to help
reduce unemployment.
B.  Development Plan and Industrial Policies
9.        The Government's main industrial policies, in force since 1970,
have been generally sound. They have succeeded in fostering the development
of the sector without creating distortions in the economy. Both exporting
and import-substitution industries have developed on the basis of their
relative comparative advantages. The fiscal incentives provided by the
Investment Law stimulated ínvestment and attracted foreign and domestic
capital to the industrial sector.
10.       Paraguay's reputation for political stability and the Government's
deliberate effort to establish a policy framework conducive to the expansion
of private investment activities created a favorable investment climate--during
the 1972-74 period, fixed investments in the industrial sector increased at an
average annual rate of about 5.9%, which more than doubled the 2.6% rate of
growth achieved during the 1966-71 period. From 1966-74, fixed investments
increased from a level of US$322 million (in 1972 prices) to a level of US$440
million (in 1972 prices). A large proportion of this increase was induced by
implementation of the 1970-75 development plan and the enactment of an invest-
ment promotion law.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Industrial Planning and Strategy
11.       The Secretaría Tecníca de Planificacion (STP) and the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce are responsible for preparing Paraguay's industrial de-
velopment plans. The first plan, covering the 1970-75 period, sought to ex-
pand the production of manufactured exports and to increase the supply of
domestically produced goods to meet a growing internal demand.  To accomplish
this, it called for some tax reforms, mainly a reduction of export taxes and
the enactment of an investment law. Under the plan, the Government's role
was limited to the establishment of a sound polícy framework within which
the private sector could effectively funetion. By and large, the Governrnent
has been successful in its efforts to make some policy changes that have
stimulated industrial growth along the path conceived in the development
plan.
12.       The second plan, covering the 1976-80 pernod, is now being prepared.
It is basícally an updated version of the fírst plan and reiterates the stated
export-oriented development strategy. It, however, takes into account fur-
ther growth opportunities that would arise from the impact of the construc-
tion of the Itaipua nd Yacyreta projects, particularly as they affect the
demand for goods and services. The plan realistically places a low expec-
tation on the prospects of generating significant employment opportunities
through industrial growth (see para. 8), because of the sector's relatively
high capital intensiveness vis-a-vis that of the agricultural sector.
Investment Promotion Law
13.       Paraguay's Investnent Promotion Law (Law No. 210) was originally
enacted in 1970 and subsequently reformed in 1975 (Law No. 550). Its basic
objective is to foster the expansion and development of the industrial sector.
The law grants the Government the authority to provide financial incentives
(mainly tax holidays and import duty exemptions) to those enterprises which
meet specifíc criteria laid down in the National Development Plan. To qualify
for these benefits, the law classifies investments into two main categories:
"necessary" and "convenient."  The first comprises those industries producing
or processing domestic raw materíals for export, and the second includes in-
dustries using the same raw materials for import substitution purposes, pro-
vided they are labor intensive. The law makes the Technical Planning Seere-
tariat (STP) responsible for preparing and reviewing annually the list of
potential industrial investments (mainly agroindustries) which are classified
into each category in accordance with the above criteria. In addition to
STP, the BNF has also been given the responsibility to classify into ea,zh
category those subprojects which are financed by línes of credits provided
by international agencies. The benefits provided under the law to "necessary"
and "convenient" industries, summarized below in Table 5, include, among
other things: total exemption on capital transfers and incorporation taxes
and duty free importation of capital goods. The law also contains some
special provisions designed to benefit industries established outside the
city of Asuncion and others are designed to increase the inflow of foreign



ANNEX 1
Page 6
capital into Paraguay. In the latter case, it provides, among other things,
for the free remittance of interest dividends and royalties. It also allows
foreign enterprises to repatriate capital in the currency of the original in-
vestment.  This is limited, however, to annual installments of up to 20% of
the investment value after the firm's first three years of operation.
Table 4: TAX EXEMPTIONS PROVIDED UNDER THE INVESTMENT PROMOTION LAW
Classification of Industries
According to the Tax Exemptions
Provided by the Law
Necessary             Convenient
Taxes                                          Industries             Industries
Taxes on Capital Import                          100%                    100%
Import Duties on Capital Goods                   100%                    100%
Foreign Exchange Conversion Taxes                100%                     70%
Preimport Deposits                               100%
Income Taxes                               50% for 5 years      35% for 5 years
Import Duties                             100% for 3 years      75% for 2 years
Source:  Investment Law No. 550/75.
Foreign Exchange Rate, Protection and Taxation
14.       Overall, the Government's industrial policies appear to be adequate,
although somewhat imperfect.  The exchange rate, for example, has remained
pegged to the US dollar since the early 1960s. This policy has subsisted be-
cause domestic inflation has been held at a relatively low level via-a-vis
Paraguay's main trading partners, foreign exchange reserves have accumulated
at a rapid rate, and because there has been a slight improvement in Paraguay's
terms of trade. In addition, the Government legalized a parallel exchange
market, where a significant proportion of foreign exchange transactions take
place--the parallel market value of the guarani, the local currency, usually
floats at a level of 4% to 15% over its official value.
15.       As far as protection is concerned, tariffs appear to be sufficiently
high to support some import-substitution activities. However, because of an
unrestrained illegal trade along Paraguay's vast and relatively unpopulated
borders, many products manufactured in Brazil and Argentina compete almost
freely in the Paraguayan market. Under these circumstances, the actual level
of effective protection is likely to remain low and would tend to foster
efficiency among import substitution activities.  As for the Government's
taxation policy, existing taxes on industrial products are not altogether
consistent wíth the sectoral growth strategy. Notwithstadning the Govern-
ment's efforts to eliminate export taxes, some still remain in effect.
These taxes, although low, are burdensome for some products which compete



ANNEX 1
Page 7
in international markets with others that are probably subsidized and ori--
ginate in countries with a more favorable transport cost structure. Incorne
taxes, on the other hand, appear to be low and do not provide appropriate
incentives for investment. The law, as currently applied, sets relatively
low levels of asset depreciation, discouraging plant and equipment renova--
tion.  An expanded industrial development effort would require some modifica-
tions and some fíne-tuning of existing policies. The Government has already
initiated this process by proceeding to reform the investment law. In the
near future, it would also need to reform its fiscal policies towards the
sector.
C.   Growth Prospects and Investment Reguirements
16.       Although industrial production suffered a setback in 1975, due to
the contraction of the wood and meat subsectors, over the medium term the
development prospects of the sector appear to be good. This expectation is
based on two premises: (a) forecasted favorable market conditions for
Paraguay's processed and semiprocessed agroindustrial exports; and (b) a
rapid expansion of aggregate demand stimulated by the large expenditures
programmed for the construction phase of the Itaipu and Yacyreta hydroelec-
tric projects (they will have a combined generating capacity of about 18,000
MW). During the 1976-80 period, industrial output could grow at an average
rate of 6.6%. This rate is somewhat lower than the one achieved between
1970 and 1974 (7.2%), mainly because the EEC ban on meat imports is like:Ly
to continue to affect the livestock sector. 1/  However, some domestic in-
dustries with the capacity to supply some of the demand for goods generated
by Itaipu and Yacyreta may grow faster than in previous years and would
counterbalance the negative effect of the EEC ban. During the 1976-1980
period, agroindustries are expected to grow at about 5.6% per year compared
to 5% achieved during the past ten years. Among the agroindustries, food
and tobacco are expected to grow at an annual rate of 6% and wood production
is expected to slow down from 13% to 8% per year, reflecting the slowdown
of the Argentinan economy. 2/ The leather and chemical industries are ex-
pected to maintain their historical growth rates of 7% and 2.5% respectively.
For manufacturing industries, the growth rate for the next five-year period
is estimated at about 8.37%, slightly above the 7.5% achieved during the
last ten years. Within this category, construction materials may expand
at a level of about 13% compared to a 5% per annum achieved in the past.
1i.       In the longer term, after the large hydroelectric projects are
completed around 1985, Paraguay will attain a comparative advantage for
electricity-intensive industries which may offer significant new opportuni-
ties for thé evolution of the industrial sector. For these prospects to
1/   Meat packing is an important industrial activity; in value-added terms
it accounted for about 20% of the sector's total and in exports it
accounted for 21% of the country's total.
2/   In 1974, Argentina imported about 90% of Paraguay's wood exports.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
materialize, however, the country would need to substantially improve its
infrastructure, tax system, and most signíficantly, its capital market.
18.       To reach the sectoral growth target of 6.6% set for the 1977-80
period, fixed investments in industry must average about US$47.7 million per
year. Overall, the realization of this level of investment seems plausible,
particularly in light of past trends.
Table 5: ESTIMATED INVESTMENT REQUIREMENTS, 1977-1980
(in millions of US$)
Industrial         Incremental               Estimated Gross
Value Added        Value Added           Investment Requirements
Year        (1975 Prices)      (1975 Prices)      (1975 Príces)  (Current Prices)
1977            265.8               17.3             34.6               38.9
1978            284.4               18.6             37.2               44.3
1979            304.3               19.9             39.8               50.2
1980            325.8               21.5             43.0               57.7
1977-80       1,180.3               77.3            154.6              190.9
Source: Central Bank statistics and mission estimates.
19.       During the 1970-74 period, industrial investment averaged about
US$34.7 million per year. During the last ten years, it grew at an annual
average rate of 12.8%.  The bulk of industrial investnent was directed towards
three activities: wood, food and textiles, which in 1974 accounted for about
three fourths of total industrial investment. The wood processing industry
alone accounted for more than 50% of total industrial investment. This
rapid expansion in the wood processing industry was induced by a government
regulation prohibiting the exportation of logs and the enactment of the In-
vestment Promotion Law, which granted very attractive incentives to export-
oriented industries. It is estimated that, on the average, about one fourth
of industrial investment is earmarked to replace depreciated equipment and
three fourths are directed to the expansion of installed capacity. As for
the foreign exchange component of industrial investments, it is estimated to
be about 60% of total investment.
D. Industrial Financing
20.       To achieve the target growth rate, it will be necessasry to mobilize
a larger flow of internal and external resources. Paraguay's capital market
is not yet well developed, however, and the pattern of industrial financing
ís not conducive to accelerated growth. At present, the share of equity
financing is relatively low vis-a-vis credit financing. As a result, new
business firms must initiate their operations under very restrictive liquidity



ANNEX 1
Page 9
conditons. During the next few years, therefore, it will be appropriate to
foster the development of a capital market to make available an íncreasíng
flow of risk capital to new business ventures.
21.       Equity and credit financing account for about 55% and 45% respec-
tively of total industrial financing. About one half of new equity invest-
ments involve foreign capital inflows and the other half is financed with
retained earnings. As to credit financing, this consists mainly of credit
from development banks (53%), credit from commercial banks (29%), and
suppiiers' credit (18%). Paraguay' s two development banks, Banco Nacional de
Fomento (BNF) and Compania Paraguay de Desarollo (COMDESA) remain still the
main sources of long-term development credit. Commercial banks, however,
have substantially increased their level of financing to industry since
1972, in large part due to a Central Bank regulation (Regulation No. 3) which
requires commercial banks to allocate 20% of their portfolio to industrial
activities and 25% to exports.
Table 6: PATTERN AND SOURCES OF INDUSTRIAL FINANCING
(in percentages)
Estimated
1972       1973        1974         1976-80
A. Equity Financing
1. New Equity                    40.5        39.1        21.6          30.2
2. Retained Earnings             28.4        21.1        27.4          25.0
Subtotal                   68.9        60.2        49.0          55.2
B. Credit Financing
1. Development Banks
BNF                         18.9        12.7       20.9          20.0
COMDESA /a                   4.8        2.3         3.9           4.0
23.7       15.0        24.8          24.0
2. Commercial Banks               6.1        17.2        11.1          12.9
3. Suppliers' Credits             1.1         7.6        15.1          7.9
Subtotal                   31.1        39.8        51.0          44.8
Total                      100.0      100.0       100.0         100.0
/a   A private DFC.
Source: Central Bank statistics and mission estimates.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
22.       The above financing pattern is likely to remain unchanged during
the next five years unless the Government succeeds in its efforts to develop
a capital market. Congress is presently studying a new capital market law
which will regulate the market for bonds and stocks. The law will provide
some tax benefits to both savers and issuing enterprises mobilizing resources
through the market. In addition to helping expand the sources of equity fi-
nancing (stocks), the proposed law would also help mobilize domestic resources
through the banking system by enabling these institutions to issue funds to
finance domestic investment activities.
23.       The participation of development banks in industrial credit financ-
ing has decreased during the past four years from about 32% in 1970 to 25% in
1974 due to a shortage of lendable funds. COMDESA, a private DFC, has a
relatively small paid-in capital and has been unable to keep pace with the
growth of demand. BNF, seriously undercapitalized, has already utilized
most of its external credit lines and has reduced drastically its industrial
lending, particularly in 1975 and part of 1976. Development bank financing,
however, is critical because it is the main source of long-term loans for
capital goods financing. While COMDESA finances mainly the purchase of
fixed assets, BNF provides financing in addition to working capital require-
ments. The table below suminarizes the development banks' credit to the
industrial sector during the 1972-75 period.
Table 7: DEVELOPMENT BANK FINANCING TO THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
(In current 0 millions)
1972         1973        1974         1975
Banco Nacional de Fomento
Disbursements for Fixed
Assets Acquisition
Development Department           339          426         1,230        1,158
Commercial Department            191          217           177          193
Subtotal                       530          643         1,407        1,351
Increases in Outstanding
Short-term Industrial
Portfolio
Development Department            30          31            (91)          43
Commercial Department             40          24           (164)         (17)
Subtotal                        70          55           (255)          26
Total BNF                   600        698          1,152        1,377
CONIDESA
(For acquisition of
fixed assets)                       153         125            213          200
Total Development Banks   753           823          1,365        1,577



ANNEX 1
Page 11
24.       In conclusion, from the financing point of víew it appears that
there ís an urgent need to mobilize resources towards equity financing and to
help strengthen the financial position of development banks. In this regard,
the achievement of a satisfactory sectoral growth target will depend heavi]Ly
on the institutional and financial improvements of Paraguay's main developrnent
bank, Banco Nacional de Fomento. In line with this assessment, the proposed
project would seek to strengthen BNF ínstitutionally and financially.
LCPID
April 1977



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Gross Value of Industrial Production
(o million of 1972)
1965     1966      1967     1968      1969      1970     1971      1972      1973      1974
Food                         15,963   16,281   17,559   17,757   17,821   19,066   18,575   19,744   21,005   21,777
Beverages                       966    1,O40    1,130    1,257    1,370    1,838    1,727    1,715    1,839    1,886
Tobacco                         778       696       806      863       822       853      839       945       805       852
Textiles                      2,568    1,856    2,038    2,075    2,421    2,446    2,355    2,647    3,345    2,952
Footwear                      1,362    1,296    1,341    1,351    1,437    1,576    1,601    1,827    1,794    1,667
Wood                             832      796       790      891    1,480    1,506    1,604    1,735    1,587    2,485
Furniture                       212       218       221      240       248       252      310       345       366       347
Paper                              5       53        52       57        59        59       61        57        58        75
Printing                        331       340       329      336       344       349      476       48o       487       476
Leather                       1,051    1,298    1,303    1,172    1,164    1,173    1,165    1,597    2,012    1,935
Rubber                           11        10        10       10        10        10       10        10        10         8
Chemicals                     2,579    2,464    2,336    2,559    2,642    3,166    3,306    3,103    3,282    3,232
Petroleum Products              387    1,227    1,226    1,388    1,374    1,360    1,660    1,896    2,221    4,132
Non-metallic Minerals           792       752       699      797       952    1,124    1,089    1,169    1,092    1,230
Basic Metals                     36        36        36       37        37        38       34        35        51        48
Metal Products                  418       423       434      444       569       571      654       592       886       773
Machinery excl. Electric         338      332       333      341       339       338      353       343       337       310
Electric Machinery              207       222       240      253       259       266      269       256       303       279
Transport Equipment             536       565       604      722       688       589      637       617       656       625
Others                          194       198       204      210       228       234       246      250       329       431
SOURCE:  Mission Estimates based on Central Bank statics.
LCPID
April 1977



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CRLDIT PROJECT
THROUG'IC BtNCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Projected Growth of Industrial Value Added
(in millions of 1972 Guaranies)
Historic Real   Estimated Real
Growth Rate       Growth Rate           Actual                            Projected
1962-74 (%)      1976-80 (%)        1974        1975        1976     1977      1978      1979      1980
Agroindustries
Food                         3.4              6.0            6,729       6,689       6,800    7,208    7,640    8,099    8,585
Tobacco                      1.0              5.0               541        717         753       790       830       872      915
Wood                        12.9              8.0             1,243      1,644       1,766    1,918    2,071    2,237    2,416
Leather                      7.0              7.0            1,054       1,054       1,128    1,207    1,291    1,382    1,478
Chemicals                    2.5              2.5            1,115         690         707       725       743       762      781
Sub-total               5.1              5.6           10,680      10,794      11,154   11,848   12,575   13,352   14,175
Manufacturing Industries
Beverages                    7.7              8.0               819      1,221       1,319    1,424    1,538    1,661    1,794
Textiles                     4.8              7.0               990      1,436       1,537    1,644    1,759    1,882    2,014
Footwear                     2.3              3.0               571         449        462       476       491       505       521
Furniture                    5.6               7.0              179         161        172       184       197       211       226
Paper                        6.0               7.0               21          26         28        30        32        34        36
Petroleum Products          30.0             10.0             1,942      1,047       1,152    1,267    1,394    1,533    1,686
Construction Materials       5.0             13.0               589         825        932    1,053    1,190    1,345    1,520
Others                       4.8              7.0            1,414       1,021       1,092    1,169    1,251    1,338    1,432
Sub-total               7.6              8.3            6,434       6,186       6,694    7,247    7,852    8,509    9,229
Total                          6.3               6.6           17,116     16,980      17,848   19,095   20,427   21,861   23,404
Adjustment±/                                     7.0            1,246       1,019      1,090    1,167    1,248    1,336    1,429
Total Gross Value Added        6.3               6.6           18,360     17,999      18,938   20,262   21,675   23,197   24,833
1/  Due to changes in inventories, and profits stemming from industrial services (see Central Bank statistics) .                      t
Source:  Mission estimate.
LCPID                                                                                                                            f
April 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 3
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Value of Fxports bv Industrial Sector
(millions of current 1)
1969     1970      1971     1972      1973      1974
Food                      2,178    3,102    3,635    5,183    7,414        6,907
Textiles                    404       510      105       526    1,570      2,200
Wood                        676       755      747    1,087    1,483       3,088
Leather                     253       273      218       492      525        665
Chemicals                 1,038    1,204    1,590    1,349    1,940        2,720
Non-metallic Minerals       -          41       60        34       15        130
Others                       35        28       52        27       40         27
TOTAL                     4,584    5,913    6,407    8,698   12,987
SOURCE: Banco Central del Paraguay.
LCPID
April 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 4
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Value Added Gross Investment and Icor, 1967-74
kin current mlallons or y >
Incremenital
Incren1?.-ntaJ.      Gross             Gros.a--Cap-t:¿aí
Indu~ tr:al       Inziu¿-:ria3       Industríal              Output
Ycar      Val.u^-Added      VaJ1m-Aded         llnvestr.nt           P.ato (ICOR)_/1
1967        10,076              943              2,393-                  2.53
196S        10,567              491              1,984                   4.04
1969        11,374              807              1,053                   1.3
19 -        21497            1,123              2,605                   2.32
1971.       13,730            1. 233             2,871                   2.33
1972        15,693            1,963              3,694
1973        20,033            4,340              6,758                   1,56
19.74       30,338           10 2'5              5,933                   0.60
/1  Tie average ICOR -for the 1967-1974 peri.od is 1.93.
Source:  i4t 0!1 ESLíh:¿stes
LCPID
April 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 5
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROTJTH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Estimated Investment Requirements, 1977-80
(in millions of US$)
1977     1978      1979    1980    1977-80
Value Added /a (1975 prices)
265.8    284.4    304.3    325.8   1,180.3
Incremental
Value Added (1975 prices)         17.3      18.6     19.9      21.5       77.3
Investment Requirements
(1975 prices)                    34.6      37.2      39.8     43.0      154.6
Investment Requirements /b
(Current prices)                  38.9     44.3      50.2     57.5      190.9
la Assuming an annual 6.6% sectoral growth rate.
lb Assuming a 6% annual increase in investment prices.
Source: Central Bank statistics and mission estimates.
LCPID
April 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 6
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Investment Reguirements and Financing, 1977-80
(in míllions of current US$)
1977-810
1977    1978    1979    1980   Amount         %
A.  Equity Financing
1.  New Equity             13.3    13.0    14.4    16.8       57.5.    30.2
2.  Retained Earnings       9.7    11.1    12.6    14.4    ,47.8        25.0
Subtotal Equity    23.0    24.1    27.0    31.6    105.3         55.2
B.  Credit Financing
1.  Development Banks
BNF                  6.1      9.1    10.7    12.3       38.2     20.0
COMDESA              1.6      1.8      2.0     2.2       7.6      4.0
Subtotal           7.7    10.9    12.7    14.5       45.8      24.0
2.  Commercial Banks        5.1     5.8      6.5     7.3      24.7      12.9
3.  Suppliers' Credit       3.1     3.5      4.0     4.5      15.1       7.9
Subtotal Credit    15.9    20.2    23.2    26.3         85.6     44.8
C.  Total Requirements
and Financing           38.9    44.3    50.2    57.5    190.9    100.0
/a Assumed structure of fínancing pattern.
/b  Investment requirements were estimated as shown in Table 5, Annex 1.
LCPID
ADril 1977



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Investment Comtonents of Industrial Projects
(in perce:ntages)
Industrial                          Buildings and                   Working                         Foreign
Sector                    Land     Civil Works      Equipment    Capital    Others    Total    Component
Food                           1.4          12.8             51.5        27.0        7.3      100.0       53.2
Textiles                        -           11.8             55.8        10.3       22.1      100.0       60.0
Wood                           0.7          11.8             58.4         26.1       3.0      100.0       59.8
leather                         -            4.o             47.9         29.8      18:3      100.0       62.0
Chemicals-                                   1.3             62.4         33.7       2.6      100.0       64.3
Construction Material          6.1          30.0             44.0        18.2        1.7      100.0       50.6
Paper                                        7.9             23.1         61.9       7.1      100.0       71.3
Metal Products                  -            -               60.7         20.8      17.5      100.0       65.0
Tourism                       11.7          65.8              9.3          8.1       5.1      100.0       21.3
Average Total                  1.0          12.0             52.0         25.0      10.0      100.0       57.0
SOURCE: Mission Estimates based on a sample of 25 subprojects financed by BNF.
m |
LCPID
April, 1977



ANIEX 1
Table 8
PARAGUAY:   INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Investment Component of Industrial Buildings and Civil Works-
(in percentages)
Domestic            Foreign Exchange               Total
Cost                    Cost                     Cost
Concrete Structure            14.9                     3.7                     18.5
Metallic Structure            27.0                    14.0                     41.0
Concrete Floors               11.0                     3.2                     14.2
Other Concrete Works           3.2                    0.9                       4.1
Water Wells                   12.3                     3.1                      15.4
Sewerage                       2.6                      -                       2.6
Storage Spaces                 2.5                                              2.5
Fencing and Others             1.6                      -                       1.6
75.1                   24.9                     100.0
1/ Mission Estimates based on sample of 25 subprojects financed by BNF.
LCPID
April, 1977



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Economic and Financial Ratios of Paraguayan Industry
Financial   Economic   Financial   Bruno   Value         Value   Capital-   Investment    Value Added Per   Value Added
Industrial              Internal    Internal   Break-even  Ratio   Added-    Added-   Output    Per  Job                   Worker        Wages Ratio
Sector                Rate of      Rate of       Point       1/      Capital   Output   Ratio                           Current
Return     Return                             Ratio      Ratio                              (¢'000 per year
(%)        (%)           (%)        (%)                                    ($ US/job)        per worker)
Food                          26          53           40         80      0.45       0.38     0.63         12,370            1,593               4.81
Textile                       29           50          51         89      1.32       0.34     0.39          3,560              493               2.32
Wood                          37           56           25        60      0.88       0.49      0.62        13,530            1,415               5.22
Leather                       28          80           64         88      1.24       0.17     0.14         4,710               746               2.96
Chemicals                     21           34          29         88      0.67       0.35      0.53        11,467              943               5.00
Paper                         16          30           15        100      0.35       0.33     0.94        21,600               967               3.87
Construction Material         22           54          50         75 -   0.55        0.60      1.11         8,730              601               2.40
Metal Products                25           60           24        60      1.89       0.82      0.43         3,540              845               2.73
Tourism                        3            5          51         40      0.12       0.62      5.24        68,830            1,034               3.46
Average Total 2/              29           53           37        74      0.72       0.42      0.66        12,100            1,062               4.47
1/   Ratio of domestic resource cost on international price.
2/   Weighted by investment costs.
3/   Not relevant, because inost of the products are non-tradeable.
SOURCE:  Industrial Survey Mission Estimates, September 1975.
LCPID
April, 1977



ANNEX 2
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Estimation of Costs of Bank Deposits
The average cost of bankdeposits is about 9%, given the current average mix
of funds in the bankíng system between savings, demand and foreign exchange
deposíts. That cost has been established as follows:
TABLE: Costs of Bank Deposits
(in percentages)
(1)        (2)            (3)            (4)          (5)              (6)
Percentage   Interest to       Legal        Legal plus
Deposit    of Total       Accounts       Reserve  Working Reserve       Cost to
Accounts    Deposits       Holders      Requirement   Requirement    the Bianks-
Savings        60          7.5 p.a.         42             45            8.1 p.a.
Foreign
Exchange      10          7.5 p.a.         15             16            0.9 p.a.
Demand          30           0              42             45            0.0
Weighted average               9.0 p.a.
Cost/of00anksColumn (3)               Column (2)>
-   Cost of Banks = (l0-Column (5)         100   ¡
LCPID
April, 1977



I'ARAGUAY INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF JANUARY 1977
| Administrative Council 
President'_                              
Department     Screaríaeptrapatmeent
Computation & Data  |   |         Advisor                    S                                       Legal Advisor              Internal AuditorA|   |         Treasury                   De Df       of
Processing                                                                                                                                                                                 dminíst_at
Agriculture                                   mmere a;;;                               uevelon                                 Ag¡|;ies
& Livestock                                 Saving Department                                                             Loan   ecton                                  eneral Accounting
S  Department~~~~~~~~~D     *Dprtment                                                                                    Office                                          Office
;  Agric. Proiinotion    l      +   Di~~vision of Analyí                         Cor i'-xts  
Fin, Admin.         '                        oeg   xhne |W                               Studies &       lj                        Pronl           li                        Bde 
of PIDgaPmn                                                                               AnaAayssly Spevsionsirnhsi                                lii                      &Foet
Progr ~        ~                   Programs &                                  pm                                      aitennc          l                       Acontno
Pur chases          ,gn                       Supervision                                                                        &Seve
Studies &           ld                     Oeain   iio                                                                               ea 
-¡Analvsis
Sprvision 
World Bank-17342
| giul tu re
Mchanization        |
LCP ID
April, 1977



ANNEX 4
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
BNF's Administrative Council
(As of March 31, 1977)
1.  Dr. Julio M. Rejis Sanguina                 President,BNF
2.  Dr. Alejandro Vaezken                        Ministry óo  Finance
3. Mr. Carlos Romero Pereira                     Ministry of Agriculture & Livestock
4. Sr. Alejandro Velazquez                       Ministry of Industry & Conmmerce
5. Dr. Nicolas Barrios R.                        Banco Central del Paraguay
6. Sr. Felipe Barboza Nufnez                     Agricultural Sector (Agricultural
-Association member and fEarmer)
7. Dr. Heliodoro Maciel Mendoza                  Livestock Sector (Cattle líen As-
sociation member and rancher)
8. -Dr. Nery A. Bedova                           Industrial Sector (Consultant)
Alternates
1.  Dr. Eulalio R. Palacios                      Ministry of,Finance
2.  Dr. Luis A. Niery Huerta                     Ministry of Agriculture & Livestock
3. Dr. Ismael Azuaga Galli                       Ministry of Industry & Cornmerce
4. Dr. Isidro Cardozo                            Banco Central del Paraguay
5. Dr. Ramon Acosta Barreto                      Agricultural Sector
6. Dr. n.iguel A. Pfannl                         Livestock Sector
7. Dr. VJictLor Scavone                          Industrial Sector
LCPID
April, 1977



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BR.NCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Staff Composition by Specialties
Adinnistrative                                                  As of December 31, 1976
Council Staff                                                                                                     Syetegs &                         Total
Presidency & Other       Commercial   Development   Agricultural  Admiaiutrative  Treasury                Legal      Computera          Total         Branch &    Total
Offices            Department   Department         Department       Department   Iepartment    Counicil    Department    Read.cu.rter B   Agencies             BNF
Economist                                 14                  4             9                8                2              1             -            2               40              7            47
Lawyera                                    -                  -                              1                5              1             5            -               12              1            13
Arquitecto                                 -                                1                -                                -            _             _                1             -             1
Administrative Officers                    3                  2             1                2                2               3            -             1               14             5            19
Dentists                                   -                  -             -                                 4               - _                        -                                            4 4
Miscellaneous Specialists                  -                  1             -                                 1               1            -             1                5             2             7
Actountante                               20                 12             1               12               26              19            _             1               91            54           145
Engineer Agronomista                       -                  -             -                7                -                            -                              7            54            61
Veterinarian                               -                  _             _                2                        -             -                    -                2                
Agronomiste                                -                                -                1                -               -            -             _                1            31            32
Nedical Consultante                        -                  -              -               -                1               -            _             _                1              -             1
Civil, Indust., & Chemic. Engineers    1                      -             3                -                -                               -          -                4              -            4
College Students (advanced) Aasta.    21                     16            12               52               85              64            -            24              274            168          442
Attendants and Trades                     15                  1              5              17               50              10             1            3              102            101           203
TOTALS         74                 36             32              113              177             99             6            32              558           427           985
LCPIID
Apríl, 1977



PARAGUAY:  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT                                    ANNge 6
BANCO NACIONAL DE FPMERM0                                          Page 1
Consolídated Pat Fíinancial Statements (1971-76)
Historical 8alance Sheets
(io uillion *                                                 Average
Annual
22   1972                    194          1975       29ó        Growth()
-     73        19_4                   176         1971-76
ASSETS
Cash and Deposite in Banks                       263         231         277         419         645        609         18.3
Reserve Requirements                             498         674         935       1.165       1.478      1J,           28.1
Loan Portfolio:
- DeveLopment Department
Current                                  3,627       1,811       1,851       2,675       3,247       3,378          1.2
In Arrears                                 159         269         291          349         279        424         21.7
Outstanding                              3,786       2,080       2,142       3,024        3,526      3,802          1.2
Less Provision for Bad Debt                 54          97           74          76          93        160         24.3
Net Portfolio                            3,732       1,983       2,216       2,948       3,433       3,642          1.2
- Agricultural Department
Current                                  3,809       3,272       4,273       5,275        5,684      6,636         11.7
In Arrears                                 364         221         291         531          620      2,006         40.7
Outstanding                              4,173       3,493       4,564       5,806        6,304      8,642         15.7
Less Provision for Bad Debt                384         403         495          445         442      1,516         31.6
Net Portfolio                            3,788       3,090       4,069       5,361        5,862      7,125         13.5
- Comercial Departnent
Current                                  1,069         974          908         973         906      1,267          3.5
In Arrears                                 326         446         474          446         433        551         11.1
Outstanding                              1,395       1,420       1,382        1,419       1,339      1,818          5.4
Less Provisions for Bed Debts               68          107         128         133         119        155         17.9
Net Portfolio                            1.326       1.313        1.510       1.286       1.220      1,662          4.
Total Net Portfolio                  8.847       6.387       7.795       9.590      10,516    12,429            7.C!
Interest Receivable:
- Development Departmsent                       239         295         337         277         307        383          9.9
Less Provisions                             56           62          87          64          55         38
Net Interest Receivable                    182          233         249         213         252        345
- Agricultural Department                       402         208         245         425         617      1,012         20.3
Less Provisions                             43           s1          62          65          79        189
Net Interest Receivable                    359          157         184         360         538        824
- Comercial Department                           12          13          34          26          27         30         20.1
Lees:  Provisions                           -           -          -             -           -          -
Net Interest Receivable                     12           13          34          26          27         30
Total Net Interest Receivable          552         404         467         599         817      1,199          16.8
Merchandise Inveetory                            189         225         332         466         668        421         17.4
Lees:  Provisions                           12           32          19          19          20        102         53.4
Net Merchandíse Inventory                  176          193        313         447          648        319         12.6
Total Net Fixed Assets                 216         226         243         243         240        230           1.3
Government Account (Art. 12)                     209       2.086       2.042       2.181       2.017        832         31.8
Other Assets                                     809         862       1.059         612       1.486        989          4.
TOTAL ASSETS                                    11.570      11.62       13.131      15.256      17.199    18 327           9.6
LLABILITIES
Checking Accounts                                542         612         726       1,090       1,093      1,468         '2.1
Savings Accounts                                 642         876       1.398       1.656       2.321      2,880         35.0
Total Depoeits                              1,184       1,488       2,124        2,746       3,414     4,348          29.7
Central Bank Debt                              1,064       1,356       1,717       2,539       2,995      3,981         30.2
External Debt                                  6,711       5,463       6,254       6,686       7,609      7,311          1.7
Other Liabilities                                650         740         923       1,050         979        773          3,5
Governeent Counterpart Contributions             254         307         306         335         322        593         18.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                9.864       9.355      11,323      13,356      15,319    17,006          11.5
EQUI E
- Development Departnent
Paid-In Capital                            576         576         576         576         576        tIl          1.. 2
Reserves                                    82          82         180         246         217        225         22.. 4
Retained Earoings                           13          22          19          51          47         47         29.3
Subtotal                               671         679         774         873         840       883          5.6
- Agricultural Departíent
Paid-In Capital                            700         700         700         700         700     1,196          11.3
Reserves                                    23          24          24          24          27         25          1.7
Retained Earnings                                       -           -           25          23     1,127           ND
Subtotal                               719         724         724         749         750                  - 71375?
- Cosmercial Department
Paid-In Capital                            245         247         247         247         247       247
Reserves                                    66          66          66          66          66        66
Retained Earnings                            4          í8)         fl)        (35)        (23)       30        _D
Subtotal                               315         305         310         278         290       343          1.7
TOTAL EQUITY                                     1.705       1.707       1.808       1.900       1.880     1,321          5.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                   11.570      11.062      13.131      15.256      17.199    18,             9.6
Current Retio                                     1.8         1.3         1.2         1.2         1.9        1.5
Longter= Debt/Equity Ratio                        4.6         3.0         3.0         3.4         5.6-       4.9
Total Debt/Equity Ratio                           5.8         5.5         6.3         7.0        8.1        12.9
-   Taking into account that CB rescheduled all BNF debt (July 1, 1976) and converted it into long-ter=
debt.
Source: Audited accounts, escept for 1976 which still are unaudited.
LCPID, April 1977



PARAGUAY:  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT                           ANNEX 6
Page 2
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Consolidated Past Financial Statements (1971-76)
Historical Income Statements
(in milliong)
A.verage
Growtl
Rate (7)
1971     1972         1973       1974       1975       1976   1971-)976
Financial Revenue
DD                     204       251         280        291        318        333       10.3
AD                     404       487         386        477        584        718       10.9
CD                     204       2,in        9R         °          2          3.a
Subtotal                  812       968         921      1,055      1,200      1,372       11.1
Subtotal~~ ~~~~==            ====        ====8     1==         ===       :===        =
Financial Expenses
DD                      74        86          96        130        148        145       14.4
AD                     178       200         264        323        382        446       20.2
CD                      97       104         128        183        165        133        6.5
Subtotal                  350       390         488        636        695         724       15.6
Financial Income (Spread)
DD                     130       165         184        161        170        188        7.7
AD                     226       287         122        154        202        272         3.8
CD                     107       126         127        104        133       _ 188      11.9
Subtotal                  462       578         433        419        506           87.0
Operational Expenses
DD                      67        82         101         80         62         115       11.4
AD                     214       247         300        326        406         475       17.3
CD                      89        83         103         97         98         111        4.5
Subtotal                   7                                                      701       13.
Operational Profits
DD                      63        83          83         81        108          73        3.0
AD                      12        40        (179)      (172)      (204)       (203)        ND
CD                      18        43          24          7         35          77       33.7
Subtotal                   93       166         (72)       (84)        (61)       (53)        ND
Other Income
DD                      (1)      (11)         11         24          6          -         -
AD                      (6)       (8)         (1)       134         81          -         -
CD                       8         4           5         (2)        47          -          -
Subtotal                    l       (15)         15        156        134          -         -
Less Provisions
DD                      49        49          75         56         32           72        8.0
AD                     250        33         139        126        286         924        29.9
CD                      22        5S          24         37         71          24        1.o
Subtotal                  321       140         238        219         389      1,021        26.0
Net Profits
DD                     l13        23          19         4a         32            1
AD                    (244)       (1)       (318)      (164)      (409)    (1,127)         ND
CD                       3       (11)          5        (32)        11           53        ND
Subtotal                 (228)       11        (294)       (147)      (316)     (1,072)       ND
Source;  Pudited accounts. exceDt for 1976 which still are unn lit-A.
LCPID
ADril, 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Development Departnent
Portfolio Analysis, As of December 31, 1975-
(ín míllion ¢)
A.    By Size              Number of Loans       (%)     Amount       (%)
Up to 0.3                     706            47        93           3
From 0.3 to 0.5               171             12       62           2
0.5 to 1.0              268             18       186           6
1.0 to 3.0              215             14       371         12
3.0 to 5.0               44              3       186           6
5.0 to 10.0              52              4       371          12
10.0 to 20.0              17              1       216           7
Above 20                       24              2    1,609          52
Total                1,503            100    3,094          100
B.  By Location                     Amount Outstanding            (%)
Asunción                             2,131                   68.9
Departamento Central                   453                   14.6
Presidente Hayes                       103                    3.3
Itapua                                  53                    1.7
Others                                 354                   11.4
Total                          3                   ,4100
C.  By Types of Guarantees                Amount Outstanding
Real Property Mortgages                        554                   18
Collateral Equipment                           383                   12
Real Property Mortgages plus
Collateral Equipment                       1,859                   60
Banks Guarantees                               193                    6
Personal Guarantees                            106                    3
Total                                 3,094                   100
-/ Statistics are only available for headquarter's portfolio
(87.7% of DD's portfolio)
Source: BNF
LCPID
April, 1977



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Sub-Sectoral Distribution of Approved Industrial & Tourism Loans from 1974 through 1976
(ín míllion ¢
1976                    1975                    1974
Subsector                             Amount         %        Amount         x         Amount        %
Food                                            80.2        11.0        102.9       30.9         121.8       12.1
Beverages                                        0.5         0.1           3.0        0.9          0.9        0.1
Textiles and Clothing                           68.5         9.4         12.0        3.6         110.9       11.1
Wood and Wood Products                         146.6        20.1          19.1        5.7        690.2       69.0
Paper Products                                  64.0         8.8               -                  -           -
Graphic Industry                                10.2         1.4         56.4       16.9           4.7        0.5
Leather                                          3.3         0.5           0.4        0.1          1.2        0.1
Chemicals                                       19.0         2.6          4.2        1.2           5.0        0.5
Construction Materials                         128.0        17.6         97,8       29.4          21.9        2.2
Electrical Equipment                             9.1         1.3                     -            -           -
Mechanical and Transport Equipment              21.6         3.0         29.1         8.7         17.8        1.8
Miscellaneous Manufacture                       36.5         5.0         -           -            -
Tourism                                         81.8        11.3         -           -           -            -
Land                                            57.0         7.8         -           -           -
TOTAL                 726.3       100.0         332.4      100.0      1,000.8    100.0
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento
LCPID
April, 1977



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Analysis of Portfolio in Arrears as of December 31, 1976
A.   Reported Level of Arrears, as of December 31, 1976
(Amounts in millions of 0)
Total Portfolio        Reported Total
BNF                  Arrears 1/
Department           Amount       X            Aount     Z
Commercial Dept.      1,818      100%           551      30
Agricultural Dept.   8,642       100%         12,194     25
Development Dept.    3,802       100%           424      11
Total           14,262      100%        |3,169      22
B.   Breakdown of Reported Arrears, as of December 31, 1976
(Amounts in millions of 0)
Arrears in Collection              Arrears in Judicial Actions           Total
AAnci6n >Branch Off   Subtotal            suncin Branch urfst. Subtotal
Amount   Z   Amount %   Amount   7       Amount  %  Amount %   'o V%   Amount   %
Commercial        186   34   199   36       385   70         88   16   78   14   166   30 1  551   100i
Agricultural   1,205   55   595   27   1,800   82           320   15   74    3   394   18   2,194   ___
Development       341   80    22    5       363   86         59   14    2    0   ,61   14         424   100,
Total       1,732   55   816   26   2548_80              467   15  154    5   621   20   3,169
1/ Figures used here were extracted from BNF's Computing Division, which for the Agricultural
Department are slightly different from figures of BNF's unaudited accounts. Unaudited ac-
counts show arrears for AD of 02,006 million, while computer's print-outs indicate 02,194
míllíon.
LCPID, April 1977



ANNEX 9
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Analysis of Development Department Portfolio in Arrears
(As of December 31, 1975)
(in millíon ¢
Number of Loans      Amounts
Loan Size                in Arrears         Overdue    Percentage
Up to 0.5                     365               53.9         15.4
From 0.5 to 1.0               56                40.3         11.5
From 1.0 to 3.0                39               66.9         19.2
From 3.0 to 5.0                 9               37.1         10.6
From 5.0 to 10.0                7               54.1         15.5
From 10.0 to 20.0              -                  -            -
Above 20.0                      3               96.8         27.7
Tucal Arrears-            4/9              i49.i        100.0
11 Amounts ín volume to 10% of DD's outstanding portfolio.
Source: Banco Nacional de Fomento
LCPID
April, 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Description of "Other Asset" Account
1.        The National Grain Program (NGP):  Initiated by the Government in
1966 to increase local production of wheat and other food grains, under the
program between 1966 and 1970, areas cultivated in wheat increased from 1,300
to 54,000 has. In most cases, however, cultivation was undertaken wíthout
adequate analysis of climatic or soil conditions. Under the program, BNF made
large loans for up to 100% of project costs, often involving absentee land-
owners who had little or no experience in grain cultivation. As a result, BNF
incurred massive losses, which amounted to more than one half of BNF's paid in
capital of about 01.6 as of December 31, 1976.
2.        At the end of 1972, 104 National Grain Program loans totalling 01,864
million, including overdue interest of 0391 million, were transferred to the
special "other assets" account, receivable from the Government. This transfer
was made under the provisions of Article 12 of BNF's Organic Law (para. 3.03),
by which Governnent is responsible for repaying operating losses incurred by
the AD. One apparent impact of the transfer was to reduce the arrears corntent
-f An s l     rnn p---f,1" from 35.8Y to 1 0.2". Ho-ever, the Governinent subse-
quently refused to accept responsibility for the transferred loans, insisting
that BNF make greater efforts to reduce the outstanding loans by rescheduLing
them and by increasing its recovery efforts.
3.        As of July 1, 1976, an agreement was signed between the Ministry
of Finance, the Central Bank and BNF ( Annex 11), by which the Ministry of
Finance agreed to repay to BNF AD's accumulated losses. Included in that
amount was a small portion of the NGP losses. As part of its financial
rehabilitation program, on December 31, 1976 BNF transfered almost 01.2 billion
in overdue NGP loans from the "Other Asset" to portfolio account. After review
of the status of these accounts BNF, at the end of 1976, took 0971 million
in provisions leaving a net portfolio of only 0188 million.
4.        Interest Receivable:  As of December 31, 1976, the interest receivable
account equalled 0895 million net of provision equivalent to more than one vear
of BNF's annual interest income. A significant deterioration in the qua:Lity of this
account occurred between 1974 and mid-1976 (along with the deterioration of
portfolio), when the average age of BNF's interest receivable increased from
about l0 to 12.5 months. Provisions for probable losses of interest receivatle
were increased from 0135 to 0227 million in 1975-76.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
5.       Merchandise Account:  The merchandise inventory account, representing
mainly farm inputs, was carried at 0421 million as of December 31, 1976.
Many of these inputs have either deteriorated or have dropped in value
since their purchase at high international prices several years ago. BNF's
new management has undertaken a program to sell off the balance of the
merchandise at cost or better; these efforts have met with some success as
about 0240 million in sales were made during 1976. About 0100 million in
additional provisions were made against this account in 1976.
LCPID
April 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
(Unofficial Translation)
AGREEMENT
between the Minister of Finance, the President of the Central Bank
and the President of the National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de
Fomento) of Paraguay on July 1, 1976
1.   The Central Bank of Paraguay grants to the National Development Bank
the consolidation of its obligations to the Central Bank of Paraguay,
up to the amount of 02,959,535,796.32 (two thousand nine hundred and
fifty nine million, five hundred and thírty five thousand, seven
hundred and ninety six guaranies with 32/100) arising from several loans
previously granted.
2.   The National Development Bank shall pay to the Central Bank of Paraguay
the consolidated debt in a period of 12 (twelve) years.
The first payment of principal shall take place on December 30, 1979.
The second amortization shall take place on the 30 of July 1980.
The remaining payments shall be made on July 30 in each year until
the complete cancellation of the debt.
3.   The Central Bank of Paraguay shall receive interest at the rate of 4%
(four per cent) per annum on the balance of the consolidation agreed
to by means of this Convention and calculated to fall due yearly.
Interest in respect of the period July 1, 1976 to July 31, 1978, shall
be paid on July 31, 1978 and thereafter annually in accordance with the
Amortization Table that forms part of this Convention.
4.   The Ministry of Finance grants the guarantee of the National Treasury
in favor of the Central Bank of Paraguay, the amount of the consolidated
obligation of the National Development Bank.
5.   Starting with the signature of this Convention the sum of  010,500,000
(ten million, five hundred thousand guaranies) arising from the exchange
surcharges that the Mínistry of Finance transfers monthly to the National
Development Bank shall be allocated to the amortization of 0886,651,688.05
(eíght hundred and eighty six million, six hundred and fífty one thousand,
six hundred and eighty eight guaranies and 05/100) in accordance with the
provisions of Article 12 of Decree-Law No. 281/61, approved by Law No.
751 of September 11, 1961.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
The Ministry of Finance undertakes to continue transferring the said
sum of 010,500,000 monthly until the total cancellation of the
obligation arising from Article 12 of Decree-Law No. 281/61 mentioned.
6.   The Ministry of Finance shall provide, in the General Budget ot the
Nation for the year 1977, a sum which shall be designated for the
capitalization of the National Development Bank equivalent to 10% (ten
per cent) of its capital. Thereafter the annual sum that the Ministry
of Finance shall designate for the capítalization of the National
Development Bank shall be agreed upon.
In calculating the said inereases, the amounts received from external
credíts and the exchange surcharges that are specifically pledged shall
not be taken into account.
7.   The National Development Bank undertakes to submit to the Mínistry of
Finance and to the Central Bank of Paraguay, within ninety days, a program
for the recuperation of its loan portfolio and a schedule of dates in
which its external obligations become due, as well as the provísions
adopted to cover losses that it may incur in its operations.
8.   The National Development Bank undertakes to inform quarterly to the
Ministry of Finance and to the Central Bank of Paraguay the evolution of
the recuperation of its loan portfolio and of the measures adopted to
improve its financial and administrative structure.
9.   The National Development Bank undertakes not to request postponements in
respect of new credits that the Central Bank of Paraguay grants to it in
the future, which must be based on production programs well defined and
duly studied.
Signed on July Ist. 1976
LCPID
April, 1977



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(1977-81)
The basic assumptions utilized in preparing the financial projec-
tions were:
A. DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
1.        Approvals:   In 1978 DD would again reach the lending level of 1974.
The annual expected growth of the industrial sector is 6.6% and would be
sufficient to reach again the investment levels of 1973 and 1974. During the
period 1977-80 total industrial investment would amount to 024 billion (see
Annex 1, table 6) of whích DD would contribute with 05,920 million, which
amounts to about its historical share of one-fifth of total industrial invest-
ment.
2.        Disbursements:  DD would disburse 60% of current year approvals in
the same year and 40% in the next year.
3.        Loan recovery:  The average existing portfolío would be recovered in
six years and average furture disbursements would be recovered in eight
years (including one of grace).
4.        Average yield:  The average yield on current portfolio (arrears
deducted) will be 11.5% in 1977, 12.5% in 1978 and 13% thereafter.
5.        Operating expenses:  Operating expenses were assumed to increase at
10% in the 1976-81 period.
6.        Increases in external borrowing:  The proposed Bank loan of US$10
míllion would be made at an interest rate of 9% of BNF and a comnitment fee of
0.75%. In addition, a fee of 0.5% p.a. would be charged by the Government to
cover the foreign exchange risk. Additional borrowing was estimated from DD's
uses and sources of funds. The interest rate of additional borrowing was
estimated by weighting KfW (future third line at 7% interest), Banco de la
Naci6n Argentina (9%), and Banco do Brasil (9%). Terms were also averaged by weights.
7.        Other liabilities:  Other liabílities were assumed to increase at
8% per year.
8.        Paid-in capital:  DD's equity was assumed to be increased between
1976 and 1981 by 0217 million from the capitalization of IDB loan 407 SF-PR.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
9.        Reserves:   Reserves were assumed, according to BNF's organic law,
to reach by 1977 and maintain thereafter, a proportion of 10% of DD's outstanding
portfolío.
B. AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
1.        Approvals:   AD would increase its lending for crop financing at an
annual average real rate of 10% in 1976-81. Its lending for capital goods
financing would increase at 18% due to additional funds available from AID,
KfW and IBRD loans.
2.        Disbursements:  In the same year AD would disburse amounts approved
both for capital goods and for crop financing.
3.        Loan recovery:  Future disbursements would be fully recovered; average
loans for capital goods would be recovered in 7 years including 2 years of grace,
and loans for crop financíng would be recovered 40% in the same year and 60%
in the next year.   The existing portfolio would be recovered according to actual
terms of loans.
4.        Arrears: In 1977 arrears would be reduced from 01 billion to about 0825
million, equivalent to 10% of the 08.2 billion total outstanding portfolio. From
then on, arrears would be maintained at 10%.
5.        Provisions:  In 1977 there would be additional estimated provisions of
092 million. Thereafter, additional provisions equivalent to 6.5% of increased
outstanding portfolio were assumed.
6.        Average yield:   The assumed average yield on current portfolio was
11.5% in 1977, 12.5% in 1978, and 13% thereafter.
7.        Merchandise sales:  Sales of merchandise have been recorded at cost.
Therefore, no imnact is recorded in the Profit and Loss Statement.
8.        Operating expenses:  Operating expenses were assumed to increase in
current prices at 10% p.a. in 1976-81 period, equivalent to 4% p.a. in real
terms.
9.        Increases in borrowing:  Additional borrowing was estimated fromn AD's
uses and sources of funds. All the resource shortfall was assumed to be covered
by new borrowing.
10.       Other líabilíties:  Other liabilities were assumed to inerease at 8%
per year.
11.       Paid-in capital:  It was assumed that paid-in capital would be increased
by 02,346 nillion between 1976 and 1981 from:  (a) the capitalization of 0266 million
(US$2.1 míllion) of IDB Loan 407SF-PR, (b) the Government's annual contribution
of 0126 million (US$1 million) to repay past losses under Art. 12, (c) the Govern-
ment's budgetary contribution of 0150 million (US$1.12 million) in 1977, and  (d)
the Government's commitment under the present proposed loan to contribute 01,300
million in 1977 out of bonds to be sold to the Central Bank.



Annex 12
Page 3
C.  COMMERCIAL DEPARTMENT
1.        Approvals:  According to available resources, CD's external out-
standing portfolio would increase at an average annual rate of 18% during the
1976-1981 period.
2.        Disbursements:  CD would disburse loans in the same year they were
approved.
3.        Loan to the Agricultural Department:  CD would not increase its lending
to the AD, thus AD's liabilíty to the CD would remain at its 01,300 million
level.
4.        Provisions:  Additional provisions amounting to 6.5% of increased
lending were assumed.
5.        Deposits:  Both saving and checking accounts were assumed to increase
annually at an average rate of 8%.
6.        Other liabilities:   Most other liabilities were assumed to increase
at 8% per year.
7.        Paid-in capital:  Paid-in capital would remain constant during the
períod.
LCPID , April 1977



P_ARAUAY: INDUu TRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NAC ONAL DE FOMENTO
Actual (1974-76) god Prolected (197-1981) Balance Sheete - Consolidated
(As of December 31 -      ln milíions of Guaranies)
Actual                                                                      Projected
A85ETS                                                              1974             1975            1976                         1977             1978            1979             1980             1981
Cash and Bank Deposits                                                419              645             609                          600              600              600             600              600
Legal Reserves                                                      1.165            1477B           1.721                        1.972            2.130           2.300            2.484            2.683
Portfolio:  Loans Net of Arreara                                    8,923           9 838           11,097                       12,549           14,887          17,534           19,779           21,898
Loans in Arrears                                        1,326           1,332            2,010                        1,954           1,738            1,884            2,123            2,354
Total outetanding                                      10,249          11,170           13,107                       14,503          16,626           19,418           21,902           24,252
Less Provisions                                           654             654              866                          958           1,098            1,283            1,447            1,602
Net Portfolio                                           9,595          10,516           12,241                       13.545          15,528           18,135           20,455           22,650
NGP Loans                                                 -               -              1,159                        1,100            1,050             971              971              971
Less Provisíons                                          -                -                971                          971              971             971              971              971
Net NGP Loans                                             -               -                188                          129               79             -                -                -
Interest Receivable of NGP Portfolio                                  -                -            -                               3                200          _     ____
Interest Receivable                                                   728              951           1,122                        1,000              900            1,080            1,260           1,417
Less Provisiona                                            129             134              227                          240              260              280             305              330
Net Interest Receivable                                    599             817              895                          760              640             800              955            1.087
Fixed Assets                                                          341              351             368                          387              389              391              408             424
Less Depreciation                                           98             111              138                          155              174              193             212              231
Net Fixed Assets                                           243             240              230                          232              215              198             196              193
Merchandise Inventory                                                 466              668             421   -                      300              200              120              120              120
Less Provisions                                             19              20              102                          120              120              120              120             120
Net Merchandise Inventory                                  447              648             319                          180              '80              -                -               -
Goverosent Account (Art. 12) 1>879                                                   2,017             832                          -                -
Other Assets                                                          909              838             989                        L050             1.150            1.250            1.350           1,45ti
TOTAL A8SETS                                    15 256           17.199           18.327                                       20.622           23.483           26240            28863
LIABILITIES
Deposite:  Checking Deposite                                        1,090            1,093           1,468                        1,585            1,712            1,849            1,997           2,156
Saving Deposite                                          1,656           2,321            2,880                        3,110            3,359            3,628           3,918            4,231
Total Deposits                                           2.746           3.414            4.348                        4,695            5.071           5.476            5.915            6.387
Central Bank Debt                                                   2.539            2.995           3.981                        2.680            2.474            2.271            2.074            1.880
Outstanding Debt (before 12-31-75) 6>686                                             7.609           6.8d3                        6.160            5,550            5.000            4.500           4.00W
New Debt (after 12-31-75) at 7% p.a. average                          -                -               468                        1.277            3.287            6.026            8,442           10.589
Governaent Counterpart Contributions                                  335              261             593                          593              593              593              593          __593
Other Liabílítíes                                                   1.050            1,040             773                          850              920              990            1.070            1,160
TOTAL LIABILITIES                               13.356           15.319           17.006                       16.255          17.895           20.356           22,594           24.608
EQUITY
Paid-ln Capital (as of 12-31-75)                                    1,523            1,523           1,523                        1,523            1,523            1,523            1,523            1,523
Capitalization of IDB  Loan 407SF-PR                                  -                -               210                           693             693              693              693              693
Capitalization of Government Counterpart Funds + Art, 12
(at 0126 million p,a.)                                                -                                321                          447              573              699              825             951
Capitalization Under IBRD Loans                                       -                -               -                          1,450            1,450            1,450            1,450            1,450
Total Paid-ln Capital                                    1,523           1.523            2,054                        4.113            4.239            4.365           4.491            4.617
Reserves and Reteined Earnings                                        377              357             <734)                      (1.650)         (1,512)          (1.238)            (845)            (362)
TOTAL EQUITY                                      1.900           1.880            1.321                        2.463            2.727           3.127            3.646            4.255
TOTAL Llh3ILITIES AND EQUITY                    15.256           17.199           18,327                       18.718          20.622           23.483           26.240           28.863   '
D/E Ratio                                                 6,4             8.1             12.9                          6.6              6.6              6.5              6.2             5.8
Current Ratio                                             1,2             1.9              1.5                          1.5              1.7              1.7              1.7              1.7
Current Ratio (Exclud. Central Bank Debt)                  -                -              1.9                          1.9              1.9              2.0              1.9             1.9
Current Ratlo (Exclud. Legal Reserves)                     -               -               1.7                          2.0              2.0              2,0              2.0             2.0
Source:   Audited Accounts (1974-75); Unaudited Accounts (1976); and Missior Prciections
LCPID, April 1977



PARAGUAY. INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANIO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Actual (1974-76) and Projected (1977-81) Income Statements - Cot 30lidated
(in millions of ¢)
Actual                                           Proj !cted
1974        1975        1976          1977         1978        1979        1980        1981
Revenue
Development Department                  291          318         333           414         510          6>6         695         787
Commercial Department                   287          298         321           400         493          515         704         819
Agricultural Department                 477          584         718           774         964        1,1 7       1,350       1,473
Subtotal                          1,055       1,200       1,372          1,588       1,967       2,318       2,749        3,079
Financial Costs
Savings Accounts                      )           )            )               209          226         2 5         264         285
Central Bank Debt                     ) 636          694         724           148          114         11r7        100          93
Outstanding Debt (before 12/31/75)                )                            343          303         2 8         251         223
New Debt (after 12/31/75)                                                       61          160         3: 6        506          666
Subtotal                            636         694         724            761         803         9 6        1,121       1,267
Financial Income (Spread)                  419         506         648           827        1,164       1,4:2       1,628        1,812
Operating Costs
Direct Costs                             199         211         232           255          281         3(9         340          374
Indirect Costs                          305          355         469           516          567         6:4         687          755
Subtotal                            504         566         701            771         848          9^3       1,026       1,129
Operating Profits (Loss)                   (85)        (60)        (53)            36         316         499          602         683
plus other income                        156         134         -              -           -           -           -
less provisions for:
bad debt                           )           )              908            92          140         185         164          155
interest receivable                )   9         390           14            13           20          23          25          25
merchandise inventory                  9           9           82            18           -           -           -            -
depreciation and others            )           )               17            17           19          13           19          19
Total Provisions                 219         390       1,038            140         179          22>         208         199
Net Profits (Loss)                        (148)       (316)     (1.073)           (84)        137          271         393         483
Source: Audited Accounts (1974-75); Unaudited accounts (1976); and Mission Projections.
LCPID
April, 1977



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO - CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
Actual (1974-76) and Projected (1977-81) Income and Cost Structure
(in percentages of average outstanding portfolio)
ACTUAL                                            PROJECTED
1974       1975        1976           1977        1978         1979        1980       1981
Average Outstanding Portfolio (in million ¢)   9,168          10,710       12,233        13,964       15.669      18.062      20,660    23,077
Revenues-/                                          11.5        11.2         11.2           11.4        12.6        13.2         13.3       13.3
Financial Costs
Savings Accounts                                          .                            1.5         1.4          1.4         1.3        1.2
Central Bank Debt                                                                      1.1         0.7          0.6         0.5        0.4
Outstandíng Debt (before 12-31-75)            ' 6.9         6.5         5.9            2.5          1.9         1.5         1.2        1.0
New Debt (after 12-31-75)                                                              0.4          1.0         1.8         2.4         2.9
Sub-total)                             6.9         6.5          5.9           5.4          5 1         5.3         5-4         5.5
Financial Income (Spread)                            4.6          4.7         5.3            5.9         7.4          7.9         7.9        7.9
Operating Costs
Direct Costs                                    2.2         2.0          1.9           1.8          1.8         1.7          1.6        1.6
Individual Costs                                3.3         3.3         3.8            3.7          3.6         3.5         3.3         3.3
Sub-total                              5.5         5.3          5.7            5.5         5.4         5.2          5.0        4.9
Operating Profits (Loss)                             (0.9)       (0.6)       (g.4)           0.4         2.0          2.8         2.9        3.0
plus other income:                              1.7         1.3           --                         -           -            -          -
less provisions for:
bad debts                                                          7.6            0.7         0.9          1.0         0.8        0.7
interest receivable                                                0.1            0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1        0.1
merchandise inventory                      2.4         3.6         0.7            0.1          -            _     -                 -
depreciacion and other                  !               -          0.1            0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1        0.1
Total provisions                           2.4         3.6         ___            1.o         1.1          ~17__       IU          M9
Net Profits (Loss)                                   (1.6)       (3.0)       (8.9)          (0.6)         0.9         1.5          1.9        2.1
1/ Deducting transfers anong departments.
Source:   Audited Accounts (1974-75); Unaudited Accounts (1976); and Mission Projections.
LCPID April 1977



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
LiEt of Long-Term External Borrowing, As of June 30, 1976
(in   million)
Date of                               Rate of                       Exchange          Amount      Amount                      Loan
Creditors                                                      Contract              Curreney         Interest        Terms           Rate           of Loan       Used       Cancelled    Balance        Date Due
(1)          (years)
1.   Inter-American Develooment Bank
a)   IDB 49 TF-PR    US$2,900,000                          1-2-63                  US$             1.25 p.a.      20              126           365.4         3ti5.4         -            -            1983
b)   IDB 44 SF-PR         4,000,000                        18-8-64                                4.0             15              126           504.0         504.0          -            -            1979
c)   IDB 97 SF-PR           700,000                        30-9-66                                3.25            16              126            88.2          54.9         33.3          -            1982
d)   IDB 119 SF-PR        6,000,000                        28-4-67                                3.25            25              126           756.0         756.0          -            -            1992
e)   IDB 211 SF-PR        4,000,000                        5-8-69                                 3.25            15              126           504.0         499.5          -            4.5          1984
f)   IDB 295 SF-PR       8,000,000                         30-6-71                                2.25            25              126         1,008.0       1,006.4          -            1.6          1996
g)   IDB 407 SF-PR        8,000,000                        19-12-74  Za                             -              -              126         1,008.0         173.8          -          834.2            -
2.  Agency for International Development
a)   AID 526-L-012   US$3,000,000                          25-9-74                 Us$             0.75 & 2       40              126           378.0         3;'8.0         -             -           2004
b)   AID 526-L-012        1,000,000                        4-8-68                                  2.0 & 2.50    40               126            126.0        124.8          1.2           -           2009
c)   AID 526-L-012B       5,000,000                        19-9-69                                4.5             25              126           630.0         61.4.6         -           15.5          1994
d)   AID Agric.Contr.  ¢  123.480                          17-9-65                 0              0.75            25                 -           123.5        123.5          -             -           1990
3.  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufrau (KfW)
a)   KfW lst Contr. DM 12,000,000                          2-12-63                 DM              5.5            15               48.25         579.0        579.0          -             -           1978
b)   ffW 2nd Contr.    12,000,000                          7-6-67                                 5.5             20               48.25        579.0         577.1          -             1.9         1987
e)   KfW 3rd Contr.    10,000,000                          12-7-71                                 5.5            30               48.25        482.5         411.7          -            70.8         2001
4.   Eximhank               US$3,000,000                         6-8-69                  us$            6.0            10               126           378.0        319.5          58.5          -           1982
5.   Banco Nacion Argent. US$7,000,000                          4-2-72                   Us$            6.0            10               126           882.0        375.2         506.8          -           1982
6.   Banco do Brasil       US$10,000,O00                         7-7-72                  Us$            7.0            10               126         1,260.0      1,101.4           -          158.6         1982
7.   Banco do Brasil        US$1,000,000                        5-9-72                   us$            2.0 LIBOR+2    4                126           126.0        126.0           -            -           1976
8.   Union de Bcos.Suizos US$1,500,000                           10-10-73                US$           11.5             5               126           189.0        189.0           -            -           1978
9.   Banco Nacion Argent.US$20,000,000                           8-8-74                  US$            7              10               126         2,520.0      1,155.9           -        1,364.1         1984
10.   I.C.I.P.U.       Lit 2,000,000,000                          26-6-74                 Lit /b         6.5            10                 0.20        560.0        560.0           -            -           1985
11.   Bank of America(SF)  US$1,500,000                           23-10-75                us$            1.5 LIBOR+2    3                126           189.0        189.0           -            -           1978
12.   IDA 509/PA             US$6,200,000                         26-9-74                 Us$            5.0            20               126           781.2         70.6           -          710,6         1994
13.  S,outh African Loan    R 4.000.000                           14-8-75                 R   /c         7.0            18               189           594.1        144.7           -          449.4          1991
14.   SuRpliera of Machinerv                                                             us$             6.0             5               126         1,600.2        871.6         641.0         87.6         1977
TOTAL                                                                                                                                   16211.1    11.271.5           2408
/a    Repayment of IDB loan 407/SF-PR, in the amount of US$8 million is an obligation of the Govemment, not the BNF.
/b    Italían lira.
/e    Rand.
Source:  Banco Nacional de Fomento
LCPID
April, 1977



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Development Department
Employment and Foreign Exchange Impact of Previous Industrial Loans
(in units indicated below)
K1A-T II      IKF  IV          IDB            Total
credit         credit          credit
A. Emplo nt (in US$  1.,000)
nestent per job for
expansion subprojecta                    8.o             8.4             8.3            5.9
Investaent per job for
new subprojects                          5.5             3.Y             5.2            4.8
Investment per job for
all subprojects                          6,9             5.6 6.o                        6.2
B.   Foreian Exchange ITpact (in USP1/US$)
Producction Value/Investnent              2.4            2.5             1.             2.0
Annual Exports Value/Investmelit          0.9Y           o.64            0.80           0.80
Annual Imports Value/Investment          0.85            0.47            0.20           0.o4
Ecportus minue Impor-ts/Investnent       0.12            0.).1           0.60           0.33
Source:  Banco Nacional de Fomento
LCPID
April, 1977



ANNEX 15
Page 1
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures - Draft
(Unofficial Translation)
To accomplish the objectives established by Decree-Law
No. 281. March 14. 1961. creatinR the National Development Bank, and
the amendments to its supplementary legislation, and in exercise of its
funetions, the Board of Directors of the Natíonal Development Bank hereby
lays down the following guidelines concerning the policies and procedures
to be followed in its operations. This statement of policies and
procedures may be amended by the Board of Directors when need and experience
so warrant.
T.   PURPOSE
The National Development Bank is a governmental development bank
whose primary objective is to accelerate economic growth, for which purpose
it shall promote and finance general programs and specific projects to
develop farming, stockraising, forestry, industry and commerce of local
materials and products, the hotel trade and tourism, as well as to promote
the development of the capital market. Consequently, it shall follow a
prudent policy for promoting, financing and assisting by various means
productive enterprises in accordance with the national development plans.
The National Development Bank shall conduct its activities in accordance
with sound criteria and investment practices, pursuant to its charter law,
its regulations and other supplementary legislation and to this statement
of polícíes and procedures.
IL.   FUNCTIONS
The National Development Bank has the following funetions and
activities:
(a) Development operations
(i)  It shall promote the formation of farming, stockraiíing,
forestry and industrial enterprises, including hotel
trade and tourism enterprises, aimed at boosting
national production.
(ií) It shall grant short, medium and long term loans to
individuals and private enterprises for the
development of production in the sectors referred
to in (i) above.
(iii) For such purposes it may obtain loans and issue
development bonds and mortgage certificates, with
the approval of the Central Bank of Paraguay.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
(b)  Commercial and savings operations
(i)   It shall receive sight, term and savíngs deposits
and carry out all types of banking operations in
general, both within the country and abroad.
(íi)   It shall grant discounts and advances on current
accounts and transact all other operations normally
involving a conmercial bank.
(c)  Agricultural and Lívestock credit operations
It shall grant short and medium term production loans to
small farmers, grain-farmers, dairy-farmers, fruit-
growers, forest-product producers, vegetable-growers
and small industry.
III.   GENERAL LENTDING POLICY
1.       In the conduct of its activities, the National Development Bank shall
exercíse due prudence, in accordance with sound financial practices, as to
the risk involved in financing operations, and it shall seek to diversify
its financial activíties from both a geographic and sectoral point of view.
2.       The National Development Bank shall consider all financing proposals
on theír financial and socio-economic meríts and shall select those that yíeld
a satisfactory return and promote the economic growth of the Republic of
Paraguay.
3.       The National Development Bank shall take into account the socio-
economic aspects of the projects that it finances. When a loan is for more
than US$150,000 equivalent, a detailed appraisal of the project's socio-
economic aspects shall be made. For this purpose an analysis system usíng
social-rate calculations and other methods shall be used as the basis for
decísíons.
4.       Loans shall be adequate to cover the necessary costs as indicated in
the investment program for the project. The terms and grace periods for
financíng by the National Development Bank shall duly reflect the useful
life of the goods financed and the cash-flow projection for each project.
5.       -,,e :'atíonal Development Bank shall not finance more than 70% (seventy
Dercen', of the total cost of a project, excluding the cost of land.
Exceptions to this general rule may be made only if there is special
justifícation, as in the case of financial assistance to small and medium
enterprises or of expansion of projects in which the borrower has a substantial
investment.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
6.       Loans secured by a pledge or lien shall not exceed fifty percent
of the value of the article pledged. Loans secured by mortgage shall not
exceed sixty percent of the value of the real estate mortgaged.
7.       The National Development Bank may refinance mature loans in sp,ecial
círcumstances on the basis of a study made in each instance.
8.       The National Development Bank shall require borrowers to conduct
their activitíes wíth due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with sound
financial, administrative and technical practices, and to maintain proper
documents and records as well as to submit financial statements at least
once a year but more frequently ín the case of enterprises facing difficulties.
It shall further require the enterprise to keep up to date in the payment of
its taxes and social security obligations.
9.       The National Development Bank shall ensure that the goods and
services for the projects it finances are purchased only after prior
comparison of prices and technical specifications quoted by several suppliers,
whenever possible, with a view to ensuring lowest prices and suitable goods
and services for each project.
10.      The National Development Bank shall require borrowers to obtain and
maintain adequate insurances against risks. In addition, they shall cover
other risk factors related to the purchase, transportation and delivery of
the goods financed to the place of their use or installation.
11.      The National Development Bank and its branches/agencies shall not
grant loans, surety bonds, endorsements or other guarantees to government
corporations or autonomous institutions.
IV.  PROJECT SUPERVISION POLICY
1.       The National Development Bank shall secure to itself the right to
inspect real property, equipment, activities, plant and works included in
the projects it finances, their operations and any relevant documents or
records.
2.       The National Development Bank shall strive at all times to improve
and strengthen the technical, commercial and financial administration of the
enterprises it finances, issuing appropriate guidelines, either through its
own personnel or through consultants or experts, as necessary. The National
Development Bank shall not assume management responsibilíty in the enterprises
ít assísts.
3.       The National Development Bank shall disburse its loans in step with
the progress of project implementation and shall ensure that the funds
dísbursed have been properly used.
4.       The National Development Bank shall establish a permanent information,
supervision and collection system, with a view to reducing arrears by its
borrowers and keeping them ot a minimum.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
5.       In the case of borrowers with outstanding balances exceeding
0 5,000,000 (five million guaraníes), independently of the periodic
review of the financial statements of each borrowers, the National
Development Bank shall inspect the facilities and operations of each
borrower at least once a year, and in the case of enterprises facing
difficulties, as often as it deems necessary.
6.       The inspections shall include valuation of  the guarantees
furnished by each borrower, in order to ensure that the borrowers maintain
suitable insurance, with responsible insurers, based on sound commercial
practices.
7.       The National Development Bank may if necessary, depending on the
status of the enterprise, impose the following conditions:
(a) That the enterprise shall not contract new obligations
without prior authorization of the National Development
Bank, except for normal credits for working capital;
(b)  That a firm of independent auditors satisfactory to the
National Development Bank shall be engaged; and
(c) That the enterprise undertake not to pay dividends if
its financial position so dictates.
V. FINANCIAL POLICY
1.       The National Development Bank shall conduct its operations in such
a manner as to ensure at least a reasonable return, sufficient to maintaín
the real value of its capital.  Interest rates, conmitment fees and other
charges shall be determined by the Board of Directors to ensure proper
implementation of this policy.
2.       TIe National Development Bank shall not assume foreign exchange risks in
its operations; it shall pass such risks on to its clients or shall adopt
other measures to cover them.
3.       The maturity periods of assets of the National Development Bank
shall be shorter than those of its obligations.
4.       The National Development Bank shall not contract obligatíons, including
contingent liabilities, in excess of 8 (eight) times its paid-up capital and
reserves, minus losses.
5.       In general, the National Development Bank shall not commít itself
in any enterprise, whether in the form of loans, guarantees or endorsements,
for an amount aggregating more than twenty percent of its paid-up capital,
general reserves and undisbursed earnings. If the Central Bank of Paraguay
so authorizes, the National Development Bank may grant loans and guarantees
for amounts beyond that limit, up to a maximum of thirty percent, in the case
of operations between banking institutions, or purchase or advances against
letters of credit or other documents covering export operations which



ANNEX 15
Page 5
entitle the bearer to receive payments from abroad, or any other operations
conducive to the development of productive activities.
6.       The National Development Bank shall at no time have committed under
its responsibility, whether as loans, surety bonds, endorsements or other
guarantees, in a single enterprise or project, an amount aggregating more
than 30% (thirty percent) of its paid-up capital and general reserves plus
undistributed earnings or minus accumulated losses, if any.
7.       The National Development Bank shall operate a system of periodic
evaluation of its loan portfolio and other accounts, on the basis of which
shall establish adequate reserves to cover doubtful debts and other losses,
consistent with financial practices. In the case of debtors in arrear in
excess of two million guaraníes (O 2,000,000) it shall review the net worth
and economic and financial position on the borrower every six months.
8.       The National Development Bank shall have its accounts, financial
statements, balance sheets and profit and loss statements audited each
financial year by the Superintendency of Banks, pursuant to the General Law
on Banks and Other Financial Entities.
VI. ADMINISTRATION POLICY
1.       The National DeveloDment Bank shall keeD its oDeratine costs to the
minimum compatible with its objectives and the scope of its operations.
2.       The National Development Bank shall provide additíonal training
for its administrative and technical personnel, in order to develop a
suitable organization that can carry out project appraisals and subsequent
supervision of its borrowers.
3.       The National Development Bank shall apply a suitable remuneration
and incentive system for its personnel and shall allocate adequate resources
for their instruction and training.
4.       The personnel of the National Development Bank shall be recruited
and promoted in conformity with their competence and professional expertise.
5.       The departments of the National Development Bank shall submit to
the Board of Directors annual or more frequent reports which include:
(a) appraisal of new projects;
(b) progress of projects financed;
(c) financial statements;
(d) overdue borrowers;
(e) other matters of importance to the financial and
operating status of the National Development Bank.
6.       The Board of Directors of the National Development Bank shall ensure
thé uniform application of the policies and procedures defined herein.
LCPID
April, 1977



ANNEX 16
PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
THROUGIH BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(in US$ '000)
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fisc¿I Year and Quarters                              at end of Quarter
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                              100
December 31, 1977                                               300
March 31, 1978                                                  600
June 30, 1978                                                 1,000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                            1,400
December 31, 1978                                             1,900
March 31, 1979                                                2,500
June 30, 1979                                                 3,200
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                            4,000
December 31, 1979                                             4,900
March 31, 1980                                                5,800
June 30, 1980                                                 6,700
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                           7,400
December 31, 1980                                             7,900
March 31, 1981                                                8,400
June 30, 1981                                                8,800
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                           9,100
December 31, 1981                                            9,400
March 31, 1982                                               9,700
June 30, 1982                                                9,900
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                          10,000
1/  Terminal date for submission of subloan proposals
LCPID
April, 1977



ANNEX 17
Technical Assistance Program                     Page 1 of 16
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
Pro,;ect of the Government of
Paraguay
Project Document
Title:   Assistance to Banco Nacional de Fomento
Number:  PAR/76/013/D/01/42                         Duration: Two years and
four months
Primary Function: Direct Support
Secondary Function: Institution Building
Sector: General economic and social policy and planning (20)
Subsector: Public and financial administration (2020)
Government
Implementing
Agency:     Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF)
Executing Agency: International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
Estimated Starting Date: June 1977
Government inputs:                                  UNDP inputs:  496,150
Guaranies                                 US doll.ars
Signed:                                             Date:_
on behalf of the Government
Signed:                                            Date:_
on behalf of the Executing Agency
Signed:                                            Date:__
on behalf of the
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRA1ME
Resident Representatíve



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 16
PART I    LEGAL CONTEXT
This Project Document shall be the instrument (therein referred
to as a plan of operation) envisaged in Article 1 paragraph 2,
of the Agreement between the Government of Paraguay and the
United Nations Development Programme concernlng assistance under
the Special Fund Sector of the United Nations Development
Programme signed by the parties on 22 June 1961, The legal
framework for this project is set out in Annex I,
PART II  A.  Development Objective
To strengthen Paraguay's main public financial intermediary,
Banco Nacional de Fomento, in order to improve resource
allocation and increase the flow of resources for financing
investments in agricultural and industrial activities in
accordance with the objectives of the National Development
Plan, 1977-81.
B.  Immediate Objectives:
1.  To help establísh within the office of the President of
BNF, a financial management office to prepara BNF's
short and medium term operational programmes, budgets,
and determine BNF's manpower and financial resource
requirements.
2,  To design and implement a low cost system, which based
on existing information, will provide the necessary cost
accounting data to prepare and monitor BNF's operational
programmes,
3,  Establish a program unit within BNF's Agricultural
Department to: (a) prepare short and medium term
programs; (c) undertake preliminary evaluations of the
impacts of levels of agricultural credit upon producers,
institutions and the economy; (d) propose new policy
directions in the field of agricultural credit making
adjustments in the program as experience is gained; (e)
prepare project which may be appropriate subjects for
international lending institutionte loans,
4.  To prepare short and medium term manpower plans, policies
and procedures for; (a) recruitment, (b) training and
(c) career development,
PART II  C.  Special Considerations
Not applicable.
PART II   D.  Background and Justification
a)  Background
BNF is the major agricultural and industrial financing
institution in Paraguay and it is the Government's
principal instrument for stimulating productive investment
activities. In 1975, BNF provided 83% of total agricultural



ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 16
credit, 48% of total livestock credit and 45% of total
industrial credit. BNF is virtually the only source
of term development credit, particularly to small and
medium size agricultural and industrial enterprises
in the country.
BNF is a complex institution, composed of three sectoral
lending departments: the Development Department (mainly
industry), the Agricultural Department and the Commercial
Department (commercial banking). With a staff of about
1,000 employees, BNF operates out of its headquarters
in Asuncion and 38 branches and agencies around the
country. It makes a large number (about 6,000) of loans
annually and has some 27,000 credits outstanding, mainly
to small size agr`cultural and industrial enterprises.
During 1965-75, BNF expanded its lending activity to
all productive sectors and increased its outstanding
portfolío from US$13.6 million to about US$100 míllion.
During the past decade of rapid growth, however, BNF
has made few changes in its methods, policies or
organization to improve its financial management or
programming and budgeting activities. Consequently, in
recent years BNP has had increased operating losses which
have affected the liquidity of the institution and eroded
its capital position.
At the departmental level, the Development Department
has been operating profitably and has developed sound
appraisal and evaluation systems, and satisfactory follow
up procedures. On the other hand, the Commercial Department
has lacked adequate polícies to guide its commercial
banking operations and the Agricultural Department has
not had the technical skills and methodological basis for
preparing its annual lending programmes. As a direct
consequence, BNF has assumed, without sufficient analysis,
both high risk and high cost agricultural progranmes,
for which it had neither adequate financial nor professional
resources. Finally, BNF's accountíng system has not been
designed to provide management with the required financial
and cost information needed to analyze and plan BNF's
financial operations or departnental programmes.  Thus, it
has been almost impossible to control costs or manage
programmes and measure their results.
In the period 1961-66, several technical assistance
programmes have been provided to BNF, especially by IDB,
in the fields of organization, credit handling procedures,
and agricultural credit operations. In 1974, IDB approved
additional assistance for industrial credit evaluation,
computarization of accounting systems, and reorganization
of small farmers lending. However, no new assistance has
been provided to BNF in agricultural credit operations
since 1966.  That BNF now requires is technical assistance
to undertake better management of its financial and human
resources and to improve its financial position. As BNF



ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 16
needs to improve its financial position in the medium
and long term, there is a need to complete past
technical assistance to BTF.
b) Justification
During the last five years, BNF has increased substantial
annual losses in its operations, partly as a result of
its full-fledged support for high priority, but risky,
national development programmes. To reverse this trend,
the Government of Paraguay has placed top priority on
the rehabilitation of BNF and it has taken effective
action to improve its management - in early 1976 the
Government changed BNF's top management.  The Governnent
has also taken the necessary steps to insure that BNF's
urgent requirements for technical assístance and financial
support receive priority attention from international
financial and development assistance agencies.
In July 1976, a World Bank appraisal mission cooperated
with a Special Committee of BNF Department Directors to
develop termis of reference for institutional improvements
of BNF. Technical assistance requirements were identified
jointly by BNF and the Bank. BNF requested that UNLDP
provide technical assistance, the terms of which were
reviewed by a UNDP Preparatory Assistance Mission in
September 1976. The proposed project represents the
consensus of views of all these parties with respect to
a priority course of action to be followed during the
next three years.
The project will focus on providing management support
and help equip BNF with tools needed to undertake better
evaluation of its programmes, in addition to on-the-job
training to BNF's staff. This technical assistance project
and a programme designed to restructure and improve BNW's
financial position would be part of the overall effort
to strengthen BNF and would be complemented with TWTorld Bank
operations involving possible loans of US$10 million
channeled through BNF (to finance industrial, agroindustrial
and tourism projects) and US$22 million, of which US$5
million would be channeled through BNF (to finance an
integrated rural development project). TUnder the proposed
World Bank loans, BNF would be asked to commit itself to
a programme of cost reduction, debt collection, overall
improvements in fínancial management, and improved programning
and budgeting systems. The technical assistance is required
to accomplish these essential objectives.
PART II E. Outputs
a)   Institutional Development
As a result of the establishment of the financial manage-
ment office (within the office of the president) and



ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 16
partícularly of the increased programming capabílity
of BNF's Agricultural Department, expected results
are as follows:
1.  Improved short and long term planning of BNF's lending
activities.
2.  Improved financial planning and management.
3. Reduced costs and improved resource allocation.
b)  Training and Human Resource Development
Through improved manpower planning and on-the-job
training, expected results are:
1.  Upgrading of professional staff to prepare operational
and financial plans.
2. Improved capability of the accounting division to produce
information useful for the management and control of the
institution's resources.
c) Systems and Methods
1. Improvement of a financial reporting system based upon
analysis of data needs of BNF's management, operating
units and branches.
2.  Improved monitoring of overall performance of BIT
departments.
3. Improvement of the organizational and procedural basis
for programme and budget planning linked to financial
and manpower programming.
4. Improved data systems for cost control.
PART II  F.   Activities
1.  Related to Immediate Objective No. 1:  Establish within
BNF a new capability in fields of financial management,
programming and budgeting.
Project  Activities                Location    Starting date
and proposed
duration
a)  Financial Management
A Senior Adviser will be appointed
to carry out the following activ-
ities:
-   Serve as senior adviser to BNF's    Asuncion       June 1977
President and Consejo Administra-                  through
tivo, on financial policies and                    Sept. 1979
programmes affecting BNF's
commercial and development banking
operations.



ANNEX 17
Page 6 of 16
Project Activities                  Location    Starting date
and proposed
duration
Review existing and develop       Asuncion      June 1977
new financial polícies and                      through
management methods; prepare                     January 1979
a programme for its imple-
mentation; and prepare
instructions and manual to
guide BNIF's financial
operations.
Help design and establish                       June 1977
an office of financial                          through
management including the                        October 1979
design of a budgeting and
programming system. Serve
as senior adviser to the
director of the office of
financial management and
programmes.
Provide on-the-job training                     June 1977
to senior staff in fínancial                    through
management techniques and                       October 1979
banking practices.
b)   Programme and Budget Management
A programning and budgeting
advisor will be appointed to
carry out the following
activities:
Collaborate with the Financial                  June 1977
Management advisor in providing                 through
assistance to the director of                   April 1979
the office of financial
management and help review
policies and financial require-
ments for BNF as a whole and
at the operating department
levels.
Develop methods and procedures                  June 1977
needed to implement and improved                through
central and departmental                        October 1978
programming and budgeting system;
develop operational manuals for
the programming and budgeting
activities.



ANNEX 17
Page 7 of 16
Project Activities                   Location   Starting date
and proposed
duration
-    Provide on-the-job training         Asuncion    June 1977
in techniques of operational                    through
and financial programming                       April 1979
and budgeting for annual and
multiannual periods.
2.   Related to Immediate Objective No.2:  Improve both procedures
and professional capability for general and cost accounting
systems and help improve financial reporting systems
(coordinating with the existing IDB programme to upgrade
use of computers within BNF) to provide management with
necessary data for evaluation, control and planning.
An accounting adviser will
be appointed, and with the
assistance of BNF personnel
carry out the following
activities:
Project Activities                   Location   Starting date
and proposed
duration
a)   General Accounting
-    Evaluate existing general           Asuncion    September 1977
accounting procedures with                      through
the Internal Auditor and                        February 1978
General Accountant, in the
context of BNF's requirements
to manage and assist in
development of new procedures
anu train staff in preparation
of selected improved financial
reports.
b)   Cost Accounting
-    Evaluate BNF's present system                    June 1978
for allocating cost among                       through
vrari.ous departments and                       April 1979
functions, in conjunction
with BNF's staff (internal)
auditor, general accountant
and budget office.



ANTEX 17
Page 8 of 16
Project Activities                   Location    Starting date
and proposed
duration
Establish a cost accounting         Asuncion     July 1978
system, needed to understand                     through
and manage BNF's operations.                     February 1979
Direct the preparation of a                       July 1978
cost accounting procedures                       through
manual.                                           February 1979
Provide on-the-job training                       September 1978
to BNF staff in use of cost                      through
accounting procedures.                           April 1979
3.   Related to Immediate Objective No. 3:  Establish a planning
unít within the Agricultural Department to prepare and
monitor annual lending programmes.
An agricultural credit and
economic planning adviser
will be appointed to carry
out the following activities:
Project Activities                   Location    Starting date
and proposed
duration
Review present methods of            Asuncion    July 1978
analysis, programming and          (Substantial  through
evaluation of agricultural          travel to    June 1979
credit operations.  Provide        branches)
on-the-job training to BNF's
staff in these tasks.
Advise staff on risk assessment                  July 1978
techniques, prior to adoption                    through
of plans for financing agri-                     December 1978
cultural programmes.
Improve methods and procedures                   January 1979
for evaluating agricultural                      through
credit operations.                               June 1979
Develop programmes, for planning                 January 1979
purposes, for collecting data                    through
both at the headquarter's and                    June 1979
branch levels.



ANNEX 17
Page. 9 of 16
4.   Related to Immediate Objective No. 4;   Prepare short
and medium term manpower plans, policies and procedures
for (a) recruitment, (b) training, and (c) career
development.
Project Activities                  Location   Starting date
and proposed
duration
A manpower planning adviser
will be appointed to carry out
the following activities:
Review with personnel division    Asuncion   July 1978
the current programmes, problems               through
and requirements in the field                  December 1978
of manpower development and
planning.
Help establish a methodology                   November 1978
for manpower planning, detailing               through
first the functions performed                  June 1979
by BNF's divisions, departments
and branches and then analyzing
the uses of human resources in
performance of these functions.
-    Help prepare a multi-year                      November 1978
programme of staff recruitment,                through
training and career development.               April 1979
PART II  G.  A.   Governnent Inputs
1,   Financial Obligations
BNF will provide for the cost of the counterpart staff, and
the administrative and logistic support needed for the
successful development of the project.
2.   Personnel Assignments
The President of BNF will act as National Director of the
Project. By December 31, 1977 the BNF would designate a
Director for the cffice of the Financial Administration,
The following personnel classifications will be designated
to serve as counterpart to the project staff.
(a) Financial Administration and Budgeting
2 economists
(b)  Agricultural Planning
1 agricultural engineer
1 economist



ANNEX 17
Page 10 of 16
(c) Personnel Planning
2 personnel administration technicians
(d) Accounting
1 accountant/economist
1 auditor
3. Administrative Personnel
1 bilingual secretary (spanish-english)
4. Training facilities
On the job training facilities will be provided.
5.  Equipment
(a)  Consumable equipment:  fuel and lubricants for
project vehicle; paper and miscellaneous.
C,  OfC_i.e eguiprnent:  Ofrice macnines
1 typewríter
1 calculator
Office furniture:
1 desk for assistant
4 chairs
1 executive desk
1 typewriter table
(c) Local equipment: The RiF will provide an office as
required, next to the President's office for the
Principal Adviser and the Programming and Budgeting
Adviser, and other necessary facilities for the
proper functioning of the project.
6. Expenditures:
The BNF will provide for maintenance of equipment
used for the project. It will also provide for
necessary communication and other míscellaneous
expenses necessary for the normal functioning of
the technical assistance program.



ATNEX 17
Page 11 of 16
B,   UNDP Financial Inputs
1.   Personnel (Assignnment of           Location    Starting date
International Staff)                            and preposed
duration
Senior Adviser. Responsible        Asuncicrl      June 1977
for the project and for            with travel   28 months
achieving Immediate Objective       as required
No. 1. He should be a senior
fínancial manager with
extensive experience as senior
executive in a financial
institution. Experience in
developing countries and with
Development Finance Companies
would be required.
Programming and Budgeting                         June 1977
Adviser, will under the                            23 months
general direction of the
Senior Adviser, be responsible
for establishing a programme
and budget system under
Immediate Objective No. 1.
He should be a senior economist,
financial analyst with at least
seven years of experience in
preparation of planning,
budgeting and programme systems
in financial or development
planning institutions. Experience
in developing countries would be
required.
Agricultural Credit and Financial    "            July 1978
Planning Adviser will, under the                  12 months
general direction of the senior
advíser, under Inmmediate Objective
No. 3, be responsible for helping
the Agricultural Department
improve credit and project planning
operations. He should be a senior
agricultural economist or specialized
in financial programming with at
least 8 years of experience with
development institutions or with an
appropriate combination of uníversity
teaching plus consulting experience
in developing countries.



ANNEX 17
Page 12 of 16
Location    Starting date
and 2proposed
duration
Manpower Planning Advisor,          Asuncion       July 1978
will under the general                             12 months
direction of the senior
adviser, be responsible
for activities under
Immediate Objective No. 4.
He should be a senior
executive with manpower
planning and personnel
administration experience,
who could define personnel
requirement plans of large
financial institutions in
the context of Paraguay.
Accounting Advisor, will                           Sept. 1977
be responsible for Immediate                       through
Objective No. 2.  He should                       Feb. 1978 and
be a senior accountant who                        June 1978 to
car establish improved general                    April 1979
and cost accounting procedures
and policies and train personnel
in their execution.
2.   Administrative support personnel
One driver                                        June 1977
28 months
3.   Missions
Preparatory assistance mission                    Sept. 1976
which analyzed request for                        2 weeks
assistance and made recommendations
4.   Training
On-the-job training will be carried
out by the experts in their respective
fields.
5.   Equipment                                     Cost in US$
A)  Non-expandable equipment                    4,000
1 vehicle will be assigned to
the project for its duration,
and returned to UNDP at the
close of the project.
B) Expendable equipment
n.a.
TOTAL      4,000



ADNNEX 17
Page 13 of 16
6.   Miscellaneous                              Cost in US$
A)  Reports - Agency final                   7,000
report and other unforeseen
reporting costs
B)  Sundry                                   6,100
TOTAL      13,100
PART II H.   Preparation of Work Plan
(see attached Bar Chart)
Detailed work plans for the implementation of the project
will be prepared under the direction of the Senior Advisor
assigned to the project, in consultation with the appropriate
senior BNF officials. These plans will be prepared at the
start of each stage of the project and brought forward
periodically. The agreed-upon work plan will be considered
as part of this project document.
PART II I.   Preparation of the framework for effective participation of
national and international staff in the project.
The activities necessary to produce the indicated outputs and
achieve the project's Immediate Objectives will be carried out
jointly by BNF and foreing advisory staff assigned to it.
The respective roles of the national and international staff
will be determined by their leaders by mutual discussion and
agreement, at the beginning of the project.
PART II J.   Development Support Communication
Not applicable.
PART II K.   Institutional Framework
Incorporated into Section II D, Background.
The present project will be located in BNF headquarters in
Asuncion, but project staff will be expected to travel in the
country periodically to train BNF staff in the areas of
programming and budgeting, financial management, and accounting
procedures.
PART II L.   Prior Obligations and Prereguisites
Prior Obligations
The Governtrent, before the arrival of the international experts
for this project, will ensure that the counterpart staff described
under Part II G, "BNF inputs", will be fully available for the



ANNEX 17
Page 14 of 16
duration of the project; that the necessary office space and
supporting facilities described under BNF inputs will be
available for the duration of the project; and that BNF will
release the necessary local funds to ensure the successful
implementation of the project.  The World Bank has made a
technical assistance programme a condition for a US$10
million industrial credit, this credit will be released in
two parts and evaluation of BNF's performance under the
ongoing technical assistance programme will be part of the
analysis preceeding the decision on release of the second
part of the loan.
PART II M.   Future UNDP assistance
No further UNDP assistance to BNF is envisaged at present, but
this will be reviewed during the course of the present project.
PART III.    SCHEDULE OF MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTS
A.  Tripartite Monitoring Review:_technical reviews
The project will be subject to semi-annual tripartite reviews
in accordance with thte pollcies and procedures escablished
by UNDP for monitoring project and programme implementation.
The Government of Paraguay, the IBRD, and UNDP will participate
in these meetings on mutually convenient dates in BNF.
B.  Evaluation
The Bank and UNDP will evaluate the progress of implementation
of this project in accordance with their normal operating
procedures. No additional evaluation mission is foreseen.
C.  Progress and terminal reports
Type of Report                  Prepared by          Date Due
Project Progress report         Senior Adviser        Ouarterly -
initial date:
September 1977
Draft Agency Terminal Report                          August 1979



PART IV
PROJECT BUDGET COVERING UNDP CONTRIBUTION
(in US Dollars)
Country:         Paraguay
Project Number:  PAR/76/013/D/01/42
Project Title:   Assistance to the Banco Nacional de Fomento
Total             1976             1977             1978            1979
m/m       US$      m/im  USS        m/m     USS      m/m     USS    m/m    USS
10.       PROJECT PERSONNEL
11     Experts
11.01  Senior Adviser/Project Manager  28    182,000        -     -          7    459500     12   78,000    9   58,500
02  Progremme and Budget Adviser    23    115,000        -     -          7    35,000     12   60,000    4   20,000
03  Agricultural Adviser             12     48,000       -     -         -        --       6   24,000    6   24,000
04  Manpower Adviser                 12     48,000       -     -          -       -        6   24,000    6   24,000
05  Accounting Adviser               16     64,000       -     -          4    16,000      8   32,000    4   16,000
11.99  Subtotal                         91    457,000       -     -        18    96,500      44  218,000   29  142,500
13.    Administrative Support                  11,200             -                2,800            4,800          3,600
15.    Official Travel                          5,000             -                1,200            2,400         1,400
16.    Missions                                 5,850           5,850                -                -             -
.19.    Component total                        479,050           5,850           100,500          225,200        147,500
49.    EQUIPMENT                                 4,000            -                4,000              -              _
50.       MISCELLANEOUS
52.    Reporting Costs                          7,000             -                1,500            2,500          3,000
53.    Sundry                                   6,100             100              1,500            2,500          2,000
59.    Component total                          13,100            ?00              3,000            5,0C0          5,0G9
99.       GRAND TOTAL                             496,15.0         5,950            107,500          230,200        152,500
o,



PARAGUAY: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Technical Asaistance to Banco Nacional de Fomento
1977                           1978                              1979
Proiect Activities                                                   J J A S O NDE F M A M J J A S O N D|E F MAM T                                    J A S
(. <a)  Financial Management
-   Serve as advisor to BNF's President
- Revise methoda of financial management supervise preparation of
programa and manual.
-   Help establish an office of financial management and programa
-   Provide on the job training
(b) Administration of Programa and Budgets
- Assist the director of the office of financial management
- Help in the revision of financial policy
-   Develop methods and procedures to improve programing
and budgeting operations for BNF and its departments,
help prepare appropriate manuals.
-   Provide on the job training.
II.  (a)  General Accounting
-   Evaluate existing accounting systems
(b) Coat Accounting
-   Evaluate requirements and propose a system
-   Establish a cost accounting system                                                                                      -
-   Direct preparation of cost accounting manual
- Provide on the job training
III.      Agricultural Planning
-   Review present planning methods                                                                                         -
- Advise staff on program risk assessament techniques
-   Improve methods for evaluation of credit operationa
- Develop data collection programs
IV.       ManPower Planning
5 Pz
-   Review current programs, problema and requirements                                                                      _      _     _
-   Help establish mnanpower planning methods                                                                                              _
-   Help prepare a multi-year program of staff recruitnent                                                                                                                                o'
training and professional development..
.h



i- ;.             f;-          g-=---E--;-i-7r> -
-  f                       r, X       =       t  I ; j        . . S se   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y
XS't,:tE 9    JosB5: ER-                    W       i\,,   .X, ;SX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 
W, .,   i.f..0V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,' D -  no« Ner la qe"*¡*jic *
\   |        FuPrç  A X    X    Xi °z ii ° \-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  li
V   CÁIJ KA dD   MUR K( L Eqa r L U t  n  _  _  U E   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  J
X X   Cfl   PED;S    O   NEFIÁ  l       TCOJO   GC                   .  C;'  <S  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'X i  i   _   ;  e   .   f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A          \        t.tor<c Rc ss    s   I¡>erto   apucs Nw ;Ws  z] lu F   7   ( ^ dALL;Pe  X   ''C C  _ °~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.
. <     _-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -S-=   -E  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0 X  t1\ V R9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wr  t /<~~~~.i ~
-; e r E E z w  : . i,;   .  ¡ ! : D, g   :  >   ,    . . ^, . w; . .   , _   \  X   , ¡  ¡, i;    . ¡    ¡ ¡  ; « . r  ¡ , O, .;~~~~~~~~~~~~j Y5 
Éo  te  e    4;r    zl eD.1«e  1r'                     >/                      Bm7
o.;  .   i  .  .r   < u  . r.  -2  3  S  lM L, erJ9E 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 p DRO l C 0o1 m , SÁW~~í 1Qui
oe¡   *   «E ¡ C ~~~~~~~:~Z E-; s   -e,        ;. u*Al  eTtdeP1.eS
i   'í-'ii-k  ' '; 3, 'E2 ''  t@ j;   ;   1   
t  e  r  t  <<< Zez X f 4¿; rDm < s . ~~~~~n7 
>  r  ,?t-Dr ; _ s¿; S X ~~~~~~~~~ f 5 W X < MsI   ." .                                      
3'5ii~~~~~~~~~ J '  'j~;;;;mS-ó,ó«'-3r  r i:., ioi2y°iEL,e-0'>,   |c;sg; ¡i; :5nr7;.ttT-Ir*:s
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  íX a 
S i   L ¡  ¡  ue;S  -S   ad    E ~~~~~~~~~n
; g,  t  3S   .  -  -  Z;   I  S ; 1   * ¡  .   -  g     g   ¡   V A   çF  S   A  :AÁ  ÁN   U F   '   ;   -  Í-
- 'C..' < °, e ze,; _ _w3 c°  ..|   i; 3  i.;, 
, -E3.;f,SRe ,3«e ¡iSL>,  
F                                                                                                       ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
pu~~~~~.     



