CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1419 PA
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 18, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement by making the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by Banco Nacional de
Fomento with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Banco Nacional
de Fomento the proceeds of tie Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C)   the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Banco
Nacional de Fomento; and
(D)   the Borrower has requested the assistance of United
Nations Development Programme for the carrying out of the
Technical Assistance Program defined hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "BNF" means Banco Nacional de Fomento, a banking
institution wholly owned by the Borrower, established by Decreto-
Ley No. 281 of the Borrower, dated March 14, 1961, and approved by
Law No. 751 of the Borrower, dated September 8, 1961, as amended
to the date of this Agreement (hereinafter called the Organic
Law);
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and BNF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes the schedules to the Project
Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"   means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BNF pursuant to Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the Loan provided
for in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by BNF out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement;
(e)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
BNF proposes to make or has made a sub-loan;
(f)   "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan;
(g) "Guaranies" means the currency of the Borrower;
(h)   "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(i) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of operating
policies and procedures to be approved by the Administrative
Council of BNF and referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement;
(j)   "Technical Assistance Program" means the program
described in Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(k)   "Debt Recovery Plan" means the plan to improve BNF's
debt collection procedures and the quality of BNF's portfolio, set
forth in Resolution No. 25 dated April 5, 1977 of BNF's Board of
Directors; and
(1) "unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves"
means the aggregate of the total unimpaired paid-up capital, plus
the unallocated surplus plus free reserves of BNF less such
amounts as shall represent provisions for probable losses on the
outstanding amount of all loans made or guarantees given by BNF,
as shall have been determined by BNF to be adequate to cover such
losses in accordance with sound business and financial practices,
less an amount equal to the amount registered in the account
maintained by BNF pursuant to Article 12 of Decree-Law No. 281/61
of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to l,nd to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for:
(i) amounts expended by BNF for an Investment Project
or, if the Bank shall so agree, for amounts to be
expended by BNF for an Investment Project, to
finance:


﻿-4-
(A) the reasonable foreign currency cost of:
(1) importing equipment and machinery; (2)
services; and (3) initial stock of raw
materials, all required under a sub-loan for
the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal is requested; or
(B) the equivalent of sixty per cent (60%)
(representing the estimated foreign exchange
component) of the reasonable cost in Guaranies
of imported equipment and machinery purchased
in Paraguay and required under a sub-loan for
the Investment Project in respect of which
the withdrawal is requested; or
(C) the equivalent of twenty-five per cent (25%)
(representing the estimated foreign exchange
component) of the reasonable cost in Guaranies
of civil works required under a sub-loan for
the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal is requested; and
(ii) amounts in foreign currency which shall not exceed
$250,000 equivalent expended or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be expended by BNF to finance
the reasonable cost of the communications equipment
and the study relating thereto referred to in
Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
provided, however that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a sub-loan unless (1) the sub-loan shall have been approved by the
Bank, or (2) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which
the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account,
or (3) the sub-loan, when added to all other sub-loans made or
proposed to be made to the Investment Enterprise which will carry
out the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested, shall not exceed the equivalent of $750,000.
The amounts specified in this paragraph shall be subject to change
from time to time as deteimined by the Bank.


﻿- 5 -
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $150,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing
amount being subject to change from time to time as determined
by the Bank.
(c)   Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made:
(i) on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan before the
date of this Agreement; or in the case of a
sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval, if such
expenditures shall have been made more than
ninety days before the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
the application and information required by
Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement; or in
respect of a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety
days before the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such free-limit
sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement; and
(ii) on account of the expenditures described in
paragraph (a) (ii) hereof if such expenditures
shall have been made before the date of this
Agreement.
(d)  If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item of the communications equipment required
for the Project is inconsistent with the procedures referred to in
Section 2.10 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-6-
Section 2.03. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.02
of this Agreement, the Bank shall have the right not to approve or
authorize withdrawals from the Loan Account for any sub-loan
which, when added to all other amounts withdrawn or to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of sub-loans approved
or authorized by the Bank, exceeds the equivalent of $4,000,000
unless the Bank shall have been satisfied that: (1) BNF has taken
all action to be taken in 1977 and 1978 under the Debt Recovery
Plan; (2) BNF's operating costs for calendar year 1978 have not
exceeded the percentage specified in Section 2.13 of the Project
Agreement; (3) BNF has obtained the yield specified in Section
3.08 of the Project Agreement for calendar year 1978; and (4) the
unit referred to in Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement is
operating with such staff, facilities and resources as required in
the light of the Technical Assistance Program.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and BNF of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans which have
been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account
under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take into account
any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions
and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.09 of


﻿-7-
this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be
made on June 1 and December 1 in each year. Such amendments of
said Schedule 1 sha1l include amendments to the table of premiums
on prepayment, if necessary.
(b)   The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless
the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall not
extend to less than four years and not beyond twelve years from
the date of approval by the Bank of such sub-loan, or in the case
of a free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii)
shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of
principal.
(c)  The Borrower shall cause BNF to transmit to the Bank,
for its prior approval, any substantial changes proposed to be
made by BNF in respect of the repayment provisions of any
sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree:
(a)  If (i) a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to BNF in advance of maturity or, if (ii) a sub-loan or any part
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed
of for value by BNF, then the Borrower shall promptly cause BNF to
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from
the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or part thereof and
not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.


﻿- 8 -
Section 2.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods required for the part of
the Project described in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.11. BNF is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
The Project and its Execution
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
BNF in financing such productive facilities and resources in
Paraguay as will contribute to the economic and social development
of the country. The Project consists in: (i) the financing of
specific development projects in the industrial, agro-industrial
and tourism sectors through loans to private enterprises in
Paraguay in furtherance of the corporate purposes of BNF; and (ii)
the acquisition and installation of communications equipment to
improve communications between BNF's headquarters and branches
and a technical study relating thereto.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause BNF to carry out the Project
and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and
personnel, and in accordance with the Organic Law, the Statement
of Policy and the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to BNF under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BNF, on terms and conditions whici.
shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include,
inter alia, the following: (i) the Subsidiary Loan shall be
denominated and repayable in Guaranies; (ii) the annual rate
of interest on the principal amount outstanding of the Subsidiary
Loan shall be of not less than 8.20% (that is to say, equal to the
rate of interest on the Loan) plus 0.5% (on account of the
exchange risk to be retained by the Borrower), and the repayment


﻿9
terms of the Subsidiary Loan shall be such as are applicable to
the Loan; and (iii) if any of the events specified in Section
2.09 of this Agreement occur, BNF shall repay to the Borrower
such amounts as the Borrower shall require for purposes of said
Section.
(b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)  The Borrower shall not, without the prior agreement of
the Bank, suspend or terminate the right of BNF to have access to
the proceeds of the Loan under the Subsidiary Loar Agreement, or
declare the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan thereunder due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity, unless the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan shall have been
suspended or terminated by the Bank or the Bank shall have
declared the principal amount of the Loan relent to BNF to be
due and payable immediately, or a default shall have occured in
the due and punctual payment of any monies payable by BNF to the
Borrower and such default shall continue for thirty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Borrower to BNF.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall contribute one billion
three hundred million Guaranfes to BNF's capital. For this
purpose, the Borrower shall: (i) issue bonds with such aggregate
amount, to mature after 25 years and bear interest at the rate of
2% per year; (ii) cause Banco Central to subscribe to such issue
entirely; (iii) cause such bonds to be repaid out of the net
profits of Banco Central, in accordance with article 103 (c) of
Decree-Law 281/61 of the Borrower, after meeting Banco Central's
capital and current expenditures budget, and in such ratios as its
Board of Directors shall determine annually; (iv) enter into an
agreement with Banco Central and BNF, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall provide, inter alia, the
utilization by BNF of such funds; and (v) take and cause to be
taken all measures required regarding the increase of BNF's
authorized capital    referred to in Section 3.07 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall promptly pay to BNF a sum equal to the amounts
due and payable to BNF for more than three months on account of


﻿- 10 -
principal of, or interest on, any loan made or guaranteed by BNF
but only if, and to the extent that, at the time such loan or
guarantee was made or given, the sum of such loan or guarantee
plus the principal of all loans made or guaranteed by BNF to
the same borrower or for the same project exceeded 30% of BNF's
unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves at the end
of BNF's immediately preceding fiscal year.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall grant the Investment
Enterprises, regarding the import of goods financed under Sub-
loans, fiscal incentives not less favorable than those granted
to the import of capital goods financed by BNF with other external
funds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall provide such funds,
facilities and services as shall be required by BNF to carry out
the Technical Assistance Program.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with retpect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a)  a default shall occur in the due and punctual payment
of any amount payable by BNF under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)  a default shall occur in the performance of any other
obligation on the part of BNF under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or under the Project Agreement;
(c)   BNF shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BNF or
by others whereby any of the property of BNF shall or may be
distributed among its creditors;
(d)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to BNF
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance w4th its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(e)  a change shall have been made in the Organic Law which
will materially and adversely affect the financial condition or
operations of BNF;


﻿- 12 -
(f)   a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy without the Bank's consent;
(g) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BNF or for the suspension of its operations; and
(h) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of BNF.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) or
paragraph (f) or paragraph (g) or paragraph (h) of Section 5.01
shall occur;
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall conntinue for a period of thirty days; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of
Section 5.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of BNF
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and goveramental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Ageement on behalf
of the Borrower and BNF has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)  the Statement of Policy has been approved in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank;


﻿- 13 -
(d)   BNF has adopted a manual for debt collection
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the procedures
established in the Debt Recovery Plan, and the measures
required to carry out such plan are being taken; and
(e)  BNF has received and utilized the funds referred to in
Section 3.03 hereof pursuant to the agreement therein provided
for.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by BNF and is legally binding upon BNF in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BNF and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BNF in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of September 20, 1977, is hereby
specified for purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                  Telex:
INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Asunci6n
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
fist above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By /s/ Mario L6pez Escobar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)**
On each June 1 and December 1
Beginning June 1, 1981
through December 1, 1991                        435,000
On June 1, 1992                                      430,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph 19 is added to Section 2.01:
"the term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth
in Section 1.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement."
(2) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(3)   The wcrds "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(4)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (e) of Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may by notice to
the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
(5)  The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Guarantee Agreement" in Section 6.06.


