CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1419 PA
Project Agreement
(Industrial Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Dated May 18, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
REC(NSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO (hereinafter called BNF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Paraguay (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars
($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that BNF agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
BNF, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be relent to BNF on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
(C)  BNF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Project; Management and
Operations of the Borrower
Section 2.01. (a) BNF shall carry out the Project described
in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and conduct its operations
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
with qualified and experienced management and personnel, and in
accordance with the Organic Law and Statement of Policy.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all the
proceeds of the Loan relent to BNF under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement for use under Sub-loans shall be administered by its
Development Department.
Section 2.02. BNF shall enter into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, BNF shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Loan Agreement and paragraph (f) below, BNF
shall present Investment Projects to the Bank for approval or for
authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Loan Account.
(a)   When presenting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, BNF shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a
description of the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment
Project to be financed thereunder (including a description of the
expenditures for such Investment Project proposed to be financed
by BNF and an appraisal of the Investment Project and its internal
economic rate of return) and the proposed terms and conditions of
the sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the
sub-loan and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Each request by BNF for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace and,
unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, (i) shall
not extend to less than four years and not beyond twelve years
from the date of approval by the Bank of such Investment Project
or of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan


﻿- 3 -
Account in respect of such Investment Project, and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal, or gradually increasing,
semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal
and interest or approximately equal, or gradually increasing,
semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(d)   BNF shall charge Investment Enterprises such rates of
interest and other financial charges on sub-loans as shall be
required by BNF to obtain a yield of not less than 13% per annum
on the principal thereof outstanding from time to time.
(e)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before September 30, 1980.
(f)  BNF shall not present to the Bank requests to approve
or authorize withdrawals from the Loan Account for any sub-loan
which when added to all other amounts withdrawn or to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in respect of sub-loans approved or
authorized by the Bank exceeds the $4,000,000 equivalent unless
all the action specified in Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement has
been carried out to the satisfaction of the Bank.
Section 2.04. BNF shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the sub-loans, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects and the sub-loans.
Section 2.05. (a) BNF undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms whereby BNF
shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise
or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and BNF, including, in the
case of any sub-loan the right of BNF to: (i) require the
Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, other
than those referred to in Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement,
be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services,


﻿-4-
of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them,
and (2) such goods and services be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require th  t: (1) the
Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2)
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall
cover marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or BNF shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of
the Investment Enterprise to the -use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with BNF.
(b)   BNF shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Bank and BNF, (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods required for the part of the
Project described in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) BNF undertakes to insure, or make adeqiate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods referred to in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by BNF to replace or repair
such goods.


﻿-5-
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BNF shall cause
the goods referred to in paragraph (a) above to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) BNF shall prepare and carry out a Technical
Assistance Program, satisfactory to the Bank, to improve, inter
alia, BNF's (i) financial resources management and programming,
and its budgeting and resources allocation; (ii) general data
collection and accounting procedures with a view to provide
BNF's management with adequate operational, financial and cost
information; (iii) agricultural credit planning, and analysis and
development of annual and multiannual financial and operational
programs; and (iv) capability to deal with manpower planning and
to carry out training and upgrading programs for its personnel.
(b)  In order to assist BNF in carrying out the Technical
Assistance Program, BNF shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.09. BNF shall take such action as shall be
appropriate on its part to enable the Investment Enterprises to
obtain the fiscal incentives referred to in Section 3.05 of the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. BNF shall, not later than December 31, 1977,
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, establish and
thereafter maintain a financial management, programming and
budgeting unit.
Section 2.11. BNF shall duly perform all its obligations
under agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put
at the disposal of BNF by the Borrower or its agencies or others
for relending, investment or management, including the contract
between the Borrower, the Borrower's Central Bank and BNF dated
July 1, 1976. BNF shall promptly inform the Bank of any action
which would have the effect of assigning, or of amending,
abrogating or waiving any material provisinn of, any such
agreement.
Section 2.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BNF: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer, encumber or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations


﻿- 6 -
and to acquire and mai tain all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.13. BNF shall take such action as shall be required
to reduce its operating costs so as to obtain that said costs
during 1978 and each year thereafter will not exceed 5.4% of the
average of its outstanding loans during the corresponding year, or
such other ratio as the Bank and BNF may agree in the light of the
recommendations of the studies included in the Technical
Assistance Program and its conclusions.
Section 2.14. BNF shall carry out the Debt Recovery Plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BNF shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 3.02. BNF shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of BNF and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BNF shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner
as shall be necessary to maintain at all times its debt/equity
ratio within the limits referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement; and (ii) if the applicable limits shall, for reasons
beyond BNF's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such
ratio within such limit.


﻿-7-
Section 3.04. BNF shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of BNF which, in the
judgment of the Bank, would materially affect BNF's ability to
meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and BNF, BNF shall not incur any debt if, after the
incurring of such debt, the debt of BNF then incurred and
outstanding would be greater than eight times the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of BNF. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by ENF;
(b)  debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on
the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to
the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding; and
(c)  whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Guaranies debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by BNF for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BNF
shall maintain a liquidity ratio -,f not less than 1.1:1. As used
in this Section "liquidity ratio" means the ratio of assets
recoverable within twelve months to liabilities to be met within
such twelve months but excluding short term financing from
the Borrower's Central Bank.
Section 3.07. BNF shall take all action required on its part
to increase its authorized capital for purposes of Section 3.03
of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.08. Starting on September 1, 1977, BNF shall charge
such rates of interest and other financial charges on its loans
made through its Development and Agriculture and Livestock
Departments as shall be required to obtain an average yield of not
less than 13% per annum on the principal amount of such loans
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-8-
Section 3.09. BNF shall not make or guarantee any loan
if the principal of such loan or guaranteed amount plus any other
loans to the same borrower or for the same project made or
guaranteed by BNF shall exceed the amount specified in Section
3.04 of the Loan Agreement, unless the Borrower shall undertake to
pay to BNF, if the event specified in such Section shall occur and
shall continue for the period therein set forth, the amounts
specified in such Section.
Section 3.10. BNF shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the Guarani and any foreign currency, or between any two foreign
currencies, used in its operations.
Section 3.11. The Bank and BNF shall, from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of BNF, and BNF shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of BNF.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE IV
Amendment of Project Agreement
(Credit No. 509-PA)
Section 4.01. The Project Agreement (Small Farmers' Credit
and Rural Development Project), dated September 6, 1974, between
the Association and BNF (hereinafter called the First Project
Agreement) is hereby amended by the deletion of Sections 3.03
and 4.05 and the replacement thereof by Sections 2.14, 3.03, 3.05
and 3.06 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BNF thereunder snall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BNF:
Banco Nacional de Fomento
Independencia Nacional y Cerro Cor&
Asunci6n
Paraguay
Cable address:                      Telex:
PYTYBO                              138 PY BANFO
Asunci6n


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BNF may be taken or executed by its
President or such other person or persons as the President shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. BNF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BNF,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted
to be taken or executed by BNF pursuant to any provision of
this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written, and the Association, acting through its
duly authorized representative, has evidenced its agreement to the
amendments of the First Project Agreement as provided in Section
4.01 of this Agreement.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
By /s/ Alberto Llanes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
P:ocurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for the purchase of goods for the purposes of the
part of the Project described in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of the
Loan Agreement shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the General Introduction and in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, BNF shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, BNF shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform BNF and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 12 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submisssion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


