Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rq.ot No. P-r6016-BJU
OF THE
PRESIDENT OP THE
I TTIONA DEVE lOENT ASSOCIAION
TO THE
EKECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 3.9 XL3ION
TO THE
KDOM OP BHUTAN
THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.1hIN 7 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:P- 6016 BHU   Type: (PM)
Title: THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PRO;
Author: VAN WERSCH, H.
Ext.:81880 RoomsD 9049 Dept.:SAIAG
Thi document has a resticed dtibut*io  nd may be ued by recpien only if the performanc of
their ofci duties. Tits contents may not otherwi be disdosed without World Bank authorizadon.



IUNlC ELOUIVAL:EDN
(May 1992)
Ngultrum (Nu)            US$0.036
US$1               =    Nu 28.0
?    MEASLRE
1 hectare (ha)               10,000 rn2 = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 cubic meter (m3)     =    3532 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 cubic meter          =    28.28 cubic feet (for true
board measurement)
A1mxREMM AND ACRONM M
BCCL       -    Bhutan Calcium Carbide and Chemicals Limited
BLC        -    Bhutan Logging Corporation
DFO        -    Divsional Forestry Officer
DOA        -    Department of Agriculture of Ministry of Agriculture
DOF        -    Department of Forestry of the Ministry of Agriculture
FLAS       -    Foreig Investment Advisory Service
GDP        -    Gross Domestic Product
GEF        -    Global Environment Facility
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
MOA        -    Miistry of Agriculture
MW         -    Megawatt
NGO        -    Non-Governmental Organizadon
Nu         -    Ngultruin
PFO        -    Project 1rucilitation Office
PPD        -    Planning and Policy Divion of Ministry of Agriculture
SDC        -    Swiss Development Cooperation
PFO        -    Project Facilitation Office
UNEP       -    United Natinns Environment Programme
BHUTAN - FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJEC;
Credit and Pfoject Summary
Borrower:               Kingdom of Bhutan
Amount:                  SDR 3.9 million (US$5.4 million)
erms:                    Standard, with 40 years I maturity
Financing Plan:         Kingdom of Bhutan               US$0.8 million
]DA                            US$5.4 million
Swiss Development Cooperation UL$2.7 million
Total                   US$8.9 million
Economic Rate of Return: 19%
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 11666-BHU
Mag:-1                  IBRD No. 24019 - Third Forestry Development Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the prform wnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autr! ation.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECrORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
EDE A THIR FOREM7IRY l:)EPNJY=F PR=
1.       I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on
a proposed development credit to the Kingdom of Bhutan for SDR 3.9 million, the
equivalent of US$5.4 milion, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years, to help
finance a Third Forestry Development Project
2.       A report entitled "Recent Economic Developments"was distributed on February
10, 1992 to participants at the 1992 Round Table Meeting for Bhutan and is available upon
request.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AMD BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANC   TTG
A. Backgound anId-Recent Economnic Performance
3.       Bdackground. Bhutan is a small Buddhist kingdom in the remote eastern
Himalayas, bordered by Inhdia and the Tibet region of China. Bhutan's terrain is among the
most nrgged in the world. Within fewer than 100 kldometers, the land rises from an altitude
of less than 160 meters above sea level in the south to more than 7,000 meters to the north
More than half the country is covered with forests. Most of the population of some one
million people engage in subsistence agriculture in the foothills of the Himalayas, which
have a generaRy temperate dlimate. The hills are transversed by a number of relatively
broad river valleys wbich, along with sections of flatland bordering India, account for most
of the readiy cultivable land in Bhutan.
4.       Until the late 1950s Bhutan was inaccessible by road and remained largely
untouched by the modem world. Since 1961, however, the country has embarked on
controlled development through a series of seven Five-Year Plans. One East-West and
three North-South roads have been built to connect Bhutan with the Indian transport
network. The 336 MW Chhukha hydroelectric project has begun to hamess the countrYs
vast hydropower potential permittg power exports to India as well as the establishment
of energy-intensive industries producing cement, calcium carbide, and forestry products.
Throughout this period of rapid change, the Government has attempted to balance efforts
to improve living standards with protection of Bhutan's unique ecology and its traditional
cultural values. Embarking on modem development relatively late, the Government has
consciously sought to, avoid the envronmental and scia damage which has occurred m
other countries as A result of uncontrolled development and overexposure to outside cultural
influences.



-2-
S.       In view of Bhutan's small population (about 1.4 million) and its access to
generous gtant aid from other donors, the scope of the Bank Group's involvement m Bhutan
is limited. Neither the Bank nor the IMF has had an economic mission since mid-1991; and
the Bank's information o the economy is less comprehensive than for most other countries.
The discussion below reflects this linited involvement, but also highlights the unique
features of Bhutan's development.
6.       ReIent Performance I 1991, agriculture, forestry, and services accounted for
70 percent of GD)P, and an even greater share of employment (Schedule A). Because of
the very small size of Bhutaus economy (GDP about US$250 million), the commissioning
of a single new industrial or hydropower project can bave a lage and hence somewhat
misleading effect on GDP statistics. Thus the coming on stream in the 1980s of new
projects producing hydropower, calcium carbide, cement, particle board, polythene, and
other export products caused the economy to double in size. Conversely, a relative decline
in economic growth to an average of about three percent in 1990 and 1991 probably reiects
the absence of any major new industrial or hydropower projects rather than a secular change
m growth rates. Planned industral and hydropower projects are expected to cause GDP
growth to accelerate again over the next ten years. Designed primarily for export to India,
such projects provide a valuable source of finance for development investments and
government services. However, the industrial sector has very little direct impact on the lives
of the majority of the Bhutanese people; and annual per capita income is below US$200.
7.       Government Priorities and Financing.  Substantial foreign aid on highly
concessional terms, combined with rising domestic revenues from industrial and power
investments, enabled the Government to increase public expenditures five-fold between 1981
and 1990. Investments have been concentrated in basic infrastructure, power, industry, and
fort ;try. There bas also been a notable expansion of basic health care and primary
ducatiLln to remote areas. However, the allocation of capital and current expenditures in
the Seventh Plan (FY93-97) suggest that the Government has not yet given sufficient
attention to the recurrent cost implications of these achievements. The heavy reliance on
external (especially Indian) financing of the fiscal deficit makes Bhutan vulnerable to
external shocks-as was the case when Indian grant aid declined temporarily in FY92. While
the Government has received substantial pledges in support of its current five-year
development program, it is aware of the need to become more self-sufficient. Historically,
Bhutan's debt-service ratio has been low as a result of the highly concessional terms of its
debt.
B. Bhutans LExtmnal Environment
8.       ndian Reforms. The Bhutanese economy is closely linked to India. The Indan
rupee circulates with the Bhutanese currency as legal tender and ninety percent of Bhutan's
exports are to India. The existence of a vast Indian market,' including an effecdvely
unlimited demnwd for hydropower, allowed exports to grow ten-fold in the 1980s to 30
1.    India's GDP is almost one thousand times that of Bhutan.



-3 -
percent of GDP. Nevertheless, Bhutan still has a large trade deficit with India which is
financed with ITndian grant aid. This aid has in the past financed about a quarter of
government expenditures. In addition, India has financed Bhutan's major hydropower
projects (including Chhukha) and some of its large industrial investments.
9.       The ongoing liberaiiztion of the Indian economy presents both opportunities
and uncertainties for Bhutan. On the one hand, since the Bhutanese currency is linked to
the Indian rupee, exports to third countries should benefit from the recent depreciation of
the rupee. On the other hand, as India reduces its external taxiffs, Bhutan will lose the high
level of protection on light manufactures in the Indian market from which it has benefitted
along with local producers. The Bhutanese Government had already begun to encourage
exports to third countries. To compensate for the overvalued rupee, in 1988 Bhutan
introduced a 30 percent subsidy on third-country exports, and merchandise exports to third
countries increased seven-fold in three years. Markets have been developed in Bangladesh
(for fruits), and to a small extent in Thailand and Japan (for agdicultural products) and
Germany and Belgium (for wood products). In response to the rupee depreciation of the
last two years, the Government is phasing out the costly export subsidy.
10.      Unrest in the South. As a sparsely populated country with relatively abundant
natural resources, Bhutan has attracted in recent decades a growing number of migrants
from populous neighboring countries. This has led to rising tensions and, in the last four
years, to civil unrest in the southern part of the country. The disturbances have had adverse
economic conse4uences: (a) production has been interrupted in Bhutan's principal
industries, most of which are located in the South, (b) trade-related transport to and from
India has become more difficult and costs have risen, and (c) the departure of many trained
workers from throughout Bhutan has aggravated the shortage of skilled and managerial
personnel and had an adverse effect on the delivery of social services. The Government's
success in resolving this complex problem will have a significant effect on its ability to meet
its development and poverty alleviation goals.
C. IDA Assistance Strategy
Country Development Objectives and Policies
11.      Bhutan's Seventh Five Year Plan (FY93-97) reiterates the goals of earlier plans
which stressed national identity and economic self-reliance, human resource development,
and improved rural living conditions. Added to these is a new emp'aasis on the
private sector. The central themes are discussed below.
12.      Sustainable Development. The Government's development objectives reflect a
deep commitment to preservation of the country's natural resources and the way of life they
sustain. The Seventh Plan places an explicit emphasis on sustainable agriculture, particularly
through measures to protect soil fertility. Although the majority of Bhutanese are farmers,
agricultuM has not yet achieved dynamic growth. There has been little irrigation or
mechanization, and the introduction of high-yielding varieties and the transfer of improved
methods has been slow and difficult. Because of the mountainous terrain and Bhutan's



-4-
commitment to forest conservation, only a small proportion of the land is farmed; and there
is reportedly little scope for further expansion. The Government appears to have
abandoned its earlier goal of self-sufficiency in staple foods. This is consistent with analysis
by the Food and Agriculture Orgniation of the United Nations (FAO) suggesting that the
present production of import-substituting staples such as rice, wheat, barley, and oilseeds is
not economically viable. On the other hand, exports of apples and oranges already give
Bhutan a trade suiplus in agricultural produce, and there is considerable potential for
further exploitation of the country's comparative advantage in horticulture. In response to
the relatively poor performance of the agriculture sector, the Seventh Plan includes a
massive aistrict-level development program covering the agriculture, forestry, and livestock
sectors. Previous Government attempts to spur agricultural development have been
hampered by an inadequate supply of qualified technical and managerial personnel. In view
of a continuing shortfal in trained workers, this program Wil probably need to be scaled
backl
13.      Bhutan's forests constitute a vital source of sustenance and export income, as
weRl as a habitat for flora and fauna whose preservation is of concern to both the Bhutanese
people and the rest of the world. The Government's commitment to forest protection over
commercial exploitation is seen in the fact that only 40 percent of the forest area can legally
be used for commercial forestry. Twenty percent of the land are,s has been declared wildlife
sancaries, game reserves, reserved forests, and a national park. Despite these efforts,
growing demands for wood and other forest products have placed pressure on the forest
resources in some parts of the country. The Third Forestry Development Project for wbich
IDA support is proposed (see Part H of this Report) would address this problem in the
eastern part of the country where it is most severe. Bhutan has not experienced wide-spread
land degradation, but serious localized problems of erosion have been caused by overgrazing
and inappropriate road construction on steep slopes. The Government intends to address
this problem by involving the local population in renewable natural resource management.
14.      The Govermnent also recognizes the need for an updated and more comprehen-
sive review of Bhutan's environmental problems and solution. With assistance from the
Danish Government, a National Environmental Strategy is scheduled for completion in
FY94. A National Environment Commission has already been established to revise
environmental regulations; and all applications for industrial licenses must include an
environmental assessment. Notwithstanding the Government's generally far-sighted
atention to the environment, there is a danger that pressures from economic development
and the growth of human and animal populations will outweigh the Govermment's weak
institutional capacity to enforce the laws and implement natural resource protection projects.
To reinforce its efforts, the Government has established an innovative Trust Fund for
Environmental Conservation which received funds last year from the UNDP/UNEP/World
Bank Global Environment Facility, the World Wildlife Fund, and the Netherlands. The
income from the Trust Fund will enable the Government to expand the system of protected
areas and improve its management. During the first five years, emphasis will be given to
strengthening human resources and the institutional capacity to manage conservation
programs. Funds will also be used to develop an ecological information base and undertake
long-range environmental planning. The Trust Fund will contribute to the pteservation of
biological diversity in the eastern Himalayas which is considered to be of global significance.



,5 -
In addition, preservation of Bhutan's forest-overed watershed is expected to provide
regional benefits to downstream inhabitants of India and Bangladesb.
15.      Hman Resource Develnpet. Until the 1960s, education was provided only
by monasteries, and modem medicine was virtually unknown. Since then, Bhutan has made
great strides in introducing basic education and health care to the urban and rural
populations, but it has a considerable way to go. The Government hopes to achieve
universal access to primay education by the year 2000. Since fewer than one-half of school
age children are currently enrolled, this goal is not likely to be met. The Seventh Plan
contais an ambitious expansion program for all levels of education tbrough high school.
Efforts wil also be made to i"crease the quality and relevance of the curriculum, and to
expand teacher training and adult literacy programs. The Seventh Phn allocates 75 percent
of the education budget to skldls training in an effort to meet the growing needs of the
economy for skdlled workers and to increase the proportion of Bhutanese in the civil seriice
and the private sector. Alog with a number of other multilateral and bilateral donors, IDA
is currently supportng the Government's efforts to expand prmary education and improve
its quality. In providing assistance, we have stressed the need to temper expansion
objectives with a realistic assessment of the availability of trained teachers and resources to
finance recurrent costs.
16.      Given the late start Bhutan's progress in providing modem medicine (albeit
rudimentary) and preventive bealth care services in urban and rural areas has been quite
remarkable. Nevertheless, as a result of the inaccessibility of many villages and the lack of
knowledge about sanitation, ventilation, and the basic causes of disease, mortality and
morbidity are still high. Birth rates are also very high, contributing to high population
growth and maternal mortality. The Seventh Plan will continue the program to strengthen
the delivery of primaiy health care and improve hygiene. Substantial improvements in water
supply and sanitation facilities are also planned. Family planning became available in 1976,
and in recent years it has been integrated into the matarnal and child health care progran.
The Government is concerned about the impact of rapid population growth on the
environment, as well as on general health. The Seventh Plan includes ambitious targets to
increase the availability of family planning services. In Bhl tan, the legal -stus  women
and their position in the home is higher than in most other South Asian countries-although
as elsewhere, they shoulder a workload in agriculture equal to or greater than that of men,
along with responsibilities for the home and childcare. There is a need to increase the
access of women to education and health care, as well as to increase the number of women
teachers and providers of health, family planning, and agricultural extension services.
17.      Fiscal Policies and the Incentive Structure. The Government's stated goal is to
meet all recurrent expenditures from domestic revenues. Although no target date is given,
achievement of this objective soon is likely to be difficult given the ambitious programs in
the Seventh Plan. Control of recurrent expenditures is planned by limiting new capital
investments that create recurrent costs. However, further prioritization of capital projects,
especially in education and health, may be needed to ensure that their recurrent costs can
be met. The Government hopes to iricrease its revenues by exploiting the country's water
and mineral resources in new projects to produce ferro-silicon, hydropower, and cement.
Little is known about the economic viability of the proposed projects. In any case, the



- 6 -
Government may need to introduce new taxes (including possibly an income tax) and
increase user charges. On both revenue and efficiency grounds, the Government should also
give priority to proposals to reform import tariffs and controls. There has been a wide
range of tariffs on imports from India, but the Government has started to rationalize the
tarif system and improve taiff collection rates. iAberalization of third-country import
restrictions needs to be timed to Indian reforms. In any event, Bhutan should replace the
current quantitative restrictions with a uniform tariff.
18.      Fivte Sector Development. While agriculture and forestry are expected to
remain the mainstay of the economy and employment for the medium-term, the
Government seeks to diversify the economy towards sectors with more potential for rapid
growth. Export-oriented manufacturing and mining were promoted in the past through
public sector investments. In more recent years, the Government has explicitly encouraged
private sector investment and minority foreign participation. This has resulted in rapid
growth of manufcturing for export to India.  The Bhutan Development Finance
Corporation was established in 1988 to promote small and medium-scale industry. The
Seventh Plan includes plans to continue privatization of public sector manufacturig firms
and to consider privatizing some government services. The main constraint to further
expansion of ma ring and mining is the shortage of skilled Bhutanese workers, a
problem the Government is addressing in its emphasis on human resource development
Another constraint is the cumbersome investment licensing system which the Government
intends to reform. Reconsideration should also be given to the current policy of promoting
industrial investment in the remoter areas of Bhutan, which have inherently limited access
to markets, supplies, power, and skilled labor.
19.      Bhutan's hvdrwewr potential is estimated at 20,000 MW. Current available
hydropower capacity is 322 MW of which 318 MW is from the Chhukha project whose
installed capacity is 336 MW. Almost aU (90 percent) current power production (1530 GWh
in FY91) is exported to India. Electricity accounts for only about two percent of household
energy consumption. As noted earlier, India is expected to continue to play a major role
in future hydropower development. The Power Sector Master Plan (see para 23) will
provide guidance to the Government in this process; and it will assist in pricing and planning
the extension of domestic electrification.
Past IDA Assistance
20.      IDA has approved five credits to Bhutan totalling US$22.8 million. The first
credit of US$3.0 million was in FY84 for a Technical Assistance Project, followed by a
credit of US$5.5 million in tne same year for a Forestry Development Project. A third
credit of US$9.0 million in support of a Calcium Carbide Project was approved in FY85.
Two ongoing IDA operations, co-financed with the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC),
were approved in FY88: a Second Forestry Development Project and a Primary Education
Project supported by credits for US$1.1 million and US$4.2 million, respectively.
21.      Project Implementation. Each operation has involved a substantial learning
process, demanding considerable flexibility on the part of both IDA and the Bhutanese. The
Technical Assistance Project achieved its primary objective of preparing a pipeline of



-7 -
investments, including the IDA-financed education and calcium carbide projects and a
number of projects which have received financing from other donors. The Technical
Assistance Project also financed the country's first te!ex system, which made a dramatic
improvement in Bhutan's ability to communicate with the outside world. However,
disbursements were very slow, in part because of the borrower's unmiliarit with IDA
procedures, but largely because of the availability of grant funJs from bilateral and other
multilateral agencies. In its contribution to the Project Completion Report, the Government
stated that it would prefer to use reimbursable (i.e. IDA) funds primarily for "hard"
Technical Assistance such as expensive detailed engineering or refining the feasibility of
projects that have already passed a pre-feasibility exercise. Almost half the credit funds
were used for vehicles, computers, and other electronic equipment for project development.
The Calcium Carbide Project was designed to serve the Government's strategy of developing
a number of relatively large, capital-intensive, export-oriented industries based on the
country's natural resource comparative advantage. Although the project has achieved an
economic rate of return of over 11 per.    the local limestone deposits on which the
investment was premised were found to be inappropriate, and the miig component (SDR
3.7 million) was canceled Besides having had to import limestone, domestic production of
charcoal has not worked out as planned, and energy supplies have had to be largely
imported (see para 31).
22.      Both the previous forestry projects have focused on sustainable forest
management and conservation (see Part II of this report). The recently completed first
project achieved generally good results in spite of start-up difficulties. However, since the
project is located in southern Bhutan, the sustainability of the project's achievements are
uncertain Civil unrest has threatened the plantations with arson and has frustrated attempts
to carry out required forest maintenance. The second forestry project is located in Western
Bhutan and is proceeding on schedule (see para 31). While the Primary Education project
has made satisfactory progress and the Government's commitment to sectoral reforms
remains strong, this nationwide project has also been affected by the unrest. Some southern
schools have been temporarily closed, and the entire project has suffered from increased
costs and difficulty in obtaining construction materials, as well as from a shortage of
managerial staff. Overall, Bank staff involved in project appraisal and supervision have been
impressed by the commitment and ingenuity of the Bhutanese engaged in project execution.
This may reflect in part the selectivity of the Government in seeldng external assistance,
especially when it carries a repayment obligation.
Main Objectives of IDA Assistance
23.      The Bank and the Government are in full agreement on the suitability of a
limited and selective role for IDA in Bhutan's development. The Govemment values highly
the presence of the Bank as co-sponsor of the UN Round Table on Bhutan which meets as
needed: in the last two instances, following release of a new year five year plan. The
economic reports drafted by Bank staff in preparation for these meetings have provided
policy guidance and helped guide pledges of concessional aid from other donors. The
Bhutanese Government also views the Bank as an objective source of expertise in selected
sectors. For example, although funding for hydropower development has been in the past
and is likely to continue to be available from India, the Bank is the executing agency for



-8 -
preparation (fnanced by the UNDP and the Norwegian Government) of a Power Sector
Master Plan. Bhutan has been reluctant to borrow substanti amounts from IDA in view
of the countys limited access to hard currency for repayment and the availability until now
of generous grant assistance from bilateral and other multilateral donors. Exceptions have
been in the forestry and basi. education sectors where IDAWs help in formulating a sectoral
strategy has been seen as likely to enhance the effectiveness of other donor assistance.
24.      Given the limited absorptive capacity and the small number of beneficiaries for
any given project, the Bank agrees with the Goverment that other donors are likely to have
a comparative advantage in most sectors. Aside from India, the leading donors are the UN
system, Japan, Switzerland, and the ADB. Assistance from these donors, especially
Switzerland, predates IDA by many years and has encompassed more activities. At the
same time, IDA can provide limited but strategic assistance in support of the Government's
demonstrated commitment to human resource development and preservation of Bhutan's
unique ecological and cultural heritage.
25.      Qpeaismnal Empbasis. IDA's strategy builds upon the exdsting program and
priorities.  We will concentrate staff and IDA resources pimarily in three areas:
(a) economic policy advice; (b) natural resource management; and (c) primary education.
Depending on the progress of the ongoing projects in forestry and education, IDA is likely
to propose additional credits of about US$54 million as appropriate. Given the limitations
on staff resources, ID)A's macroeconomic advice will complement that of the IMF and will
feature periodic reviews of the Government's budgetary documents to assist the officials and
other donors in planning and fiscal management. Forestry projects will continue to balance
the needs of economic growth and the environment through emphasis on strengthened
management, popular participation, private sector involvement, and conservation. In
primary education, IDA will stress the need for improvements in efficiency and quality as
well as expansion. Both in forestry and education, IDA!s role will involve donor
coordination. If the Government is reluctant to borrow from IDA for advisory services and
training in these sectors, an important condition of our assistance wiU be assurances that
appropriate assistance will be provided by other donors.
26.      Co.geration wit Multilateral and Bilateml Agcies Although Bhutan is not
yet a member of IFC or MIGA, a UNDP grant has recently been made available to finance
Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIIAS). IDA and the IMF cooperate closely on
Bhutan in an effort to make efficient use of limited staff resources. The Fund's last Article
IV consultation was in 1991, and another is tentatively planned for July 1993. The IMlF
provided assistance in setting up the Royal Monetary Authority, which was created in 1983
to perform the basic functions of a central bank; and the Fund has provided subsequent
technical assistance in research and statistics, as well as on the financial system and bank
supervision.
27.      As noted earlier, the Round Table which the Bank co-sponsors with the UNDP
provides a valuable opportunity for Bhutan to obtain pledges and coordinate assistance from
the international community. The Fourth such meeting was held in March 1992 and was
attended by 11 governments and a number of multilateral funding agencies and NGOs. At
this meeting, Bhutan received pledges, mostly in grants, in support of the Seventh Plan



- 9 -
(FY93-97) which exceeded in real tenns the amount committed, as well as actually
disbursed, under the Sixth Plan. The next meeting is ttntatively planned for 1994.
nSuMmna- Assessment
28.      While behind in the start of modem development, Bhutan has in many ways
been .head of most of the world in focusing on the preservation of its natural and cultural
resources and development of its human resources. The Bhutanese people and their
Government bave pursued these objectives with resourceful pragmatism. And their
achievements, especially in basic education and health, have been impressive. Moreover,
Bhutans purposeful broad-based approach to development has won it the generous support
of a wide assortment of donors. Unfortunately, in recent years unrest in the southern part
of Bhutan has interfered with economic activity, including trade with India, and impeded
project implementation. The depEture of skilled workers and managers, whether or not
officially inspired, has adversely affected project implementation and the provision of
services througbout the countty. Government expenditure plans have also been affected by
increased security requirements.
29.       Provided the unrest does not escalate, we anticipate continuation of a selective
but strategically important IDA presence. General indicators of progress will be attention
to the policy concerns discussed above. Of particular importance will be measures to ensure
that budget allocations (a) prioritize new investments and (b) reflect the growing recu' -ent
cost requirements to maLVaain investments, especially in infrastructure and social services.
We will also give special attention to strengthening the management capacity of government
agencies engaged in implementing development programs and protecting the environment
Decisions to provide further assistance in sectors where IDA is already active-forestry and
primary education-will be made on the basis of sectoral needs and performance under
ongoing projects. Assistance beyond these sectors will only be considered following a
determination that the activity is a high priority for the Govermment and that IDANs
involvement will fil a critical gap which cannot be met by some other donor.



- 10-
PART 11  THE CREDIT
30.      Backgroud. Forests are the largest renewable natural resource in Bhutan, and
because of its low population density the !ountry has the highest forest area per capita
despite very high utilization rates of wood. I he Go- .nment has been extremely conscious
of the potential for environmental damage from uncontrolled exploitation of forest resources
and unsustainable land use practices. The Government has consistently emphasized
conservation and natural resource management in its national development plans and is now
preparing a comprehensive conservation strategy. The Government's commitment to
environrmental conservation is reflected in its deliberate choice of a slow development pace
to safeguard the environment and national culture. The Government has created the
Bhutan Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation to meet, on a long-term basis, the
recurrent costs of its conservation programs. The Trust Fund is being supported by grants
from the Global Environment Facility, the World Wildlife Fund, and the Government of the
Netherlands in 1992. Although the overall situation with regard to preservation of the
natural environment is vastly better than in most countries at a comparable stage of
development, there are indications that this situation is deteriorating. Icreasing human and
livestock populations are beginning to exert appreciable pressure on forest and land
resources in accessible forest areas, especially in eastern Bhutan. While resource
degradation is not acute at existing population and extraction levels, it can become severe
in 20-50 years. In the more populated areas, forests are becoming degraded in quality due
to overextraction of valuable species for fuelwood, timber and minor forest products, and
uncontrolled grazing by livestock. There is a growing demand for construction timber in
urban and rural areas as development activities increase and cash incomes rise.
Development is also creating more wood-based industries dependent upon forest resources.
And the road network is being expanded, providing greater access to-and pressure on-
forests. In line with its major concern for rational management of forest and agricultural
resources, and for curbing forest degradation and environmental deterioration, the
Government requested IDA!s assistance to implement a forestry project in eastern Bhutan.
31.      Less= Leamed from Previous IDA Involvem   IDA has supported forestry
development in Bhutan since 1984 under two projects. The Foresr Development Proect
(Credit 1460-BHU; US$5.5 million), which became effective in 1984, supported the
Government's efforts to develop the Department of Forestry's (DOF) capacity to plan and
operate an integrated logging and reforestation program in the context of the country's long-
term goal of sustainable management of the forest reserves to ensure the long-term supply
to the newly established wood-based industries and to increase export earnings. The
project's physical targets were either met or exceeded as were its objectives in developing
technical skills. However, the sustainability of the project's achievements is uncertain due
to (a) the Government's reluctance to sustain afforestation activities without external
financing support; (b) lack of a solid commercial basis for ongoing plantation management;
(c) failure to involve local people as beneficiaries of the plantations' products and revenues,
beyond their role as providers of plantation labor; and (d) physical destruction and lack of
effective supervision resulting from the civil disturbances in southern Bhutan. The Second
Forest Development PrQject (Credit 1900-BHU; US$1.06 million), cofinanced with the
Government of Switzerland, became effective in 1988. The project supports the
Government's efforts in salvage logging, pest management and reforestation in pest-affected



- 11 -
conifer forests in three districts of western Bhutan. It provides technical and management
assistance to the Bhutan Logging Corporation (BLC) and DOF. A major institutional
benefit from the project has been the experience gained by DOF in the timely preparation
of forest management plans, which serves as the foundation for expanding planned forest
management under the proposed Third Forestry Development Project. The project is
proceeding according to schedule and expected to be completed at the end of calendar year
1993. A forestry component under the Calcium Carbide Prje  (Credit 1596-BHU), which
was completed in June 1991, aimed at developing a 1,000 ha forest plantation near the plant
site of Bhutan Calcium Carbide and Chemicals Limited (BCCL) to provide raw material for
charcoal required in the manufacturing process. This component has been unsuccessful
because the Government did not allocate the required forest area to the plant, and provided
instead a much smaller area located in eastern Bhutan, thus making the plant largely
dependent on importation of carbon materials from India. IDA has urged the Government
to instruct DOF and BCCL to agree on arrangements for a forest concession of sufficient
size to provide adequate wood on a sustained basis to meet the company's need for
charcoaL
32.      The proposed Third Forestry Development Project builds on the experience
from the previous IDA operations in that it aims at maldng forest development activities in
eastern Bhutan financially self-sustaining through the introduction of a viable management
regime as a basis for national forest management; beneficiary participation through village
forest management, as well as involvement in planning for national forest management; and
rationalizing the economic and financial incentive framework through changes in price policy
and forest legislation.
33.      Rationale for IDA Involvement, JDA's experience with the implementation of
the earlier two forestry projects has been positive and provides a good basis for continuing
lending support to Bhutan in this important sector. The forestry sector has a high growth
potential and its contribution to GDP can be increased considerably. Since IDA initiated
assistance to the forestry sector with its first Forestry Development Project, it has played an
important role in supporting forestry development and conservation, and has been a major
participant among donors on forestry issues in Bhutan. IDA's role increased with the
Second Forestry Development Project, in particular through its key support in the
preparation of forest management plans which have set a standard for the sector. The
Government requested IDA to continue its support for forestry development by asking it to
prepare a Third Forestry Development Project with a specific focus on eastern Bhutan
because of increased pressure on forest resources in that region which has received relatively
litfle development assistance. The project follows the Bankls Forest Policy2 and is fully
consistent with the Government's Sector Strategy and Forestry Sector Programme
Framework in that it addresses the following critical issues: (a) sustainability of forest
management; (b) people's participation; (c) private sector involvement; (d) institutional
capacity; (e) conservation and environmental protection; (f) process of forest policy planning
and legislation; and (g) coordination of donor assistance in the sector.
2.    The Forest Sector. A World Bank Policy Paper, 1991.



- 12-
34.       Pect Obectives and Scoe. To support the Government's efforts to develop
and implement an approach for sustainable protection, management and use of its forest
resources in line with its national development priorities, the project will support, over a
seven-year period, a comprehensive program of activities for forest resource development
in eastern Bhutan with maximum participation of forest users. It would include:
(a) multiple-use national forest management by DOF; (b) social forestry on private farm
land and public forest land through involvement of local communities to meet local needs;
and (c) rehabilitation of degraded forest lands by DOF and local people. It would also
provide for institutional strengthening to achieve the objectives of: (a) defining operational
procedures and criteria and investment programs that will help DOF implement field-level
activities in the forestry sector; (b) conserving scarce manpower and other resources by
defining priority areas for the most cost-effective interventions; and (c) engaging various line
agencies and local communities in jointly-planned development activities and encouraging
integration among the forestry, crops and livestock sectors. It would also assist the
Government in conforming to IDA!s new forestry sector policy directive by reinforcing its
institutional capacity to implement and enforce: (a) policies and programs to ensure
conservation and sustainable use of existing forests and to promote more active participation
of local people and the private sector; (b) a comprehensive and environmentally sound
forestry conservation and development plan; and (c) social economic and environmental
assessments of forests being considered for commercial utilization and setting aside
adequate compensatory preservation forests to maintain biodiversity while safeguarding the
interests of forest dwellers, and specifically their rights of access to designated forest areas.
35.      ,Eroect DigpigQon The project would finance a Nonal ForestMmMment
Comoonent with the establishment of four forest management units in eastem Bhutan which
would involve forest inventory, and preparation and implementation of forest management
plans for Govenmment Reserved Forests, to ensure a sustainable supply of forest products
to meet primarily the needs of the local people, urban centers and forest-based industries
in the project area. The Soial Fopaoonent would include the two subcomponents
of agroforestry and village forest management. Agroforestry activities would be on private
land and include establishment of nurseries managed by individual farmers and/or schools,
monasteries and block development committees; production of seedlings and planting
material; establishment of demonstration nurseries and demonstradon areas; and
preparation and distnbution of extension packages for farm forestry. Under the village
forest management subcomponent, villagers would be given responsibility for management
of local forests, to which they have had traditional access, under the technical guidance and
supervision of DOF. Most of the activities in village forest management would include:
workshops and training programs for forestry officials and for villagers to create awareness
and knowledge of village forest management, provision for contract facilitators to assist in
setting up village institutions for community forestry, development of village forest plans,
and preparation and distributions of forest extension materials. The Affomtaioi
Reforestation Component would be aimed at degraded forest areas outside the scope of
forest management and the social forestry programs in the project. The project would
finance the plantation establishment and maintenance cost in this component Selection
criteria  for  afforestation/reforestation  would  include:    protection  of water
resources/agriculture; supply of forest resources; soil erosion and slope degradation control;
cost-effective and appropriate technologies; community participation and sharing of costs,



- 13-
-benefits and responsibilities; use of an appropriate species mix suitable for the site;
proxmity and functional relevance to demand centers; and terrain evaluation of the selected
area.
36.      The Institutional   ggtuheg COmo=  would finance support to the
Goverment's efforts to improve planing and implementation capabilities through tedhnical
and institutional support to the Ministry of Agricture's Planning and PoUcy Division (PPD)
and DOF. Assistance would be provided to PPD to strengthen its capability in forestry
sector planning and policy formulation to achieve the goals of rationalzg forestry strategy
to assure susaiability and environmental protection in conformity with the Bankes Forestry
Sector policies. DOF would be strengthened at the central level and in eastern Bhutan with
incremental staff, training, tecbnical assistance, facilities and equipment to strengthen its
institutional capacity to manage forest resources.
37.      The project cost is estimated at US$8.9 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of US$5.2 million equivalent. A breakdown of project costs and the
financing plan are presented in Schedule B. Amounts and methods of procurement and
disbursement, and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule C. A timetable of key
project processing events is shown in Schedule D. The status of Bank Group operations in
Bhutan is shown in Schedule E. A map is also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report, No.
11666-BHU, dated June 7, 1993 is being distributed separately. The project will be
cofinanced with the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) with a grant to the Government
of US$2.7 million equivalent to fully finance training and technical asistance under the
project.
38.        lementatiop.  The project will be executed by the Mnistry of
Agriculture (MOA), primarily through its Project Facilitation OfEice (PFO) for eastern
Bhutan. DOF will be the main implementig agency for carying out the project through its
Dvisional Forest Officers in the project area. At the central level, project implementation
will be coordinated by MOA through (a) its PPD for monitoring and evaluation, and co-
ordination of research and technical assistance, and (b) its Administration and Finance
Division for procurement and finacial matters. At the regional level, the head of the PFO
would be given the powers of regional project manager with responsibility for ensuring
project implementation by the Divional Forest Officers and for monitoring project progress
in eastern Bhutan.
39.      Proect Sustail. The project would include training technical assistance,
workshops and study tours to strengthen the capacity and capabilities of the implementg
agencies and to obtain the participation of beneficiaries. It would also ensure that forestry
activities would be governed by environmentally sound practices; villagers' participation
would be sought in both forest development and protection activities; timber, sawnwood and
fuelwood would be priced at appropriate levels to avoid unsustainable exploitation of forest
resources. The financial obligaton of the Government upon completion of the project,
would be limited to the incremental staff costs in the amount of US$160,000 per annum.
This level appears reasonable and sustainable in the light of the increased level of forestry
activities prevaiifng in the project area and the likely need to fiuther expand such activities



- 14-
in response to additional demand for wood and other forest products resulting from
population growth and economic development.
40.     .Aged Acons During negotiations, agreements were reached with RGOB on:
(a) submission of an action plan for pricing and marketing policy reform to be implemented
no later than July 1, 1994; (b) submission of a plan for privatization of seedling production
and distribution to be implemented no later than July 1, 1994; (c) submission of
recommendations for the management arrangemens of national forest management units
to be implemented no later than July 1, 1995; (d) review and confirmation by IDA of the
annual afforestation/reforestation program in the project area; (e) annual monitoring of the
environmental aspects of the project by the National Environment Commission based on a
Memorandum of Understanding signed no later than December 31, 1993; (f) a
comprehensive mid-term review of the project providing the basis, inter alia, for establishing
the technical assistance needs during the project's later years; and (g) forest sector donor
coordination meetings to be held every other year during the project implementation period
for the purpose of assessing project achievements against sectoral program objectives.
41.      Condtons of Credit Effectivens would be (a) the adoption by the Govermment
of revised Community Forestry Rules; and (b) effectiveness of the cofinancing agreement
between the Government and SDC.
42.      Environmental Aspects.  The project will reinforce the Government's
commitment to conservation of the country's natural forests and their biodiversity. The
project will not only maintain and increase the value of eastern Bhutan's forestry assets, but
also clearly demonstrate that sound forest management is synonymous with sound resource
conservation, as more regeneration is aRowed, and as grazing and the extraction of firewood
and other forest products are controlled. In the forest management units, natural
regenerationwill be enhanced and biodiversity maintained; in the afforestation/reforestation
areas and through village forest management, watershed protection will be enhanced; and
through agroforestry, grazing and fuelwood pressure on national and village forests will be
reduced and soil erosion will be controlled. Regular monitoring of the project's
environmental impact wil be carried out by the National Environment Commission under
a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Agriculture and in accordance with
a work program agreed with IDA.
43.      Project Qbjective Categories. The project would provide about 260 new person
years of employment to rural people and improve the incomes of villagers by promoting
forest and farm management practices which would enhance the productivity of local
farming systems. It would also integrate environmental aspects into forestry operations and
support several specific nature conservation activities. In addition, it would enhance
women's roles in the decision making processes affecting forest management, social forestry
and rehabilitation of degraded forest land.
44.      Project Benfta. The project's main direct benefit would be the production of
wood from sustainable, environmentally-managed forest areas for the purpose of meeting
domestic timber and fuelwood needs. Total incremental production by the end of the 20th
year is estimated at about 282 thousand n3, with an economic value of about US$2.3 million



-15-
equivalent through increased availabflity of timber, fuelwood, non-wood forest products and
livestock production derived from incremental   ng and fodder production. Not counting
the additional forestry staff employed and unpaid vohlteer labor provided by vllagers, the
project would generate about 75 permanent and 45 seonal jobs in forestry activities. It
would further strengthen the capacity of sector agencies to promote sustainable forest
management In addition, significant environental and social benefits may be expected
from the projeces conservation activities and from increased participation of villagers in
forest development activities. The projeces economic rate of return is estimated at 19%.
45.      Bikl. The project is subject to two major rsk factors. The first is the potential
delay in project implentation due to the weak absorptive and implementation capacity
of DOF. The institutional support provided by the project and the human resource plamning
that has been part of project preparation will reduce tlis risk considerably. Besides, every
attempt is being made to keep the project manageable and realistic in relaon to the limited
himan resources available witbin the country. Also, the project's mid-term review is
expecte to furnish the necessary feedback for corrections in project design and
impnlementation. The second risk factor is poor response by the intended benefiiaries,
especaly to the Socal Forestry Component The project will pay much attention to
peopie's participation in the management of forest resources. In particular, the success of
the Agroforestry and the Village Forest Management Subcomponents will depend largely
on local involvement Since community management of forests is rather a new concept in
Bhutan, it is not clear how this will be received and translated into action by the people.
Therefore, the project envisages a slow and steady adoption of this idea and will allocate
a sificant amount of time and resources for adequate preparation and extension work to
educate the public, so that their commitment is ensured.
46.      Recommendation, I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
Comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recoend that the
Executive Directors approve it
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 7, 1993



-*16-          .              Sdedule A
Page 1 of 2
BHUTAN: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1985-91
Item                           1955    i986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Growth Rates (%)
GDP                            3.3    10.0    1b.5     3.3      2.6     3.6      3.0
Debt Service/XGS 112V            ..      ..   11.0    18.0    18.9    30.1    22.9
Debt/XGS 1/                      ..      ..  305.6   407.2   492.9   451.7   518.3
Debt1GDP                          ..     ..   10.4    13.9    26.0    30.8    34.0
Ratios to GDP. Current Prices
Investment                   45.3    40.5    30.2    38.5    35.9
Domestic Savings              13.6    13.8    18.1    12.9    21.4
National Savings              -5.3    -2.8     8.4     4.2    13.0
Govemment Revenues 31           ..      ..    9.6    17.1    18.5    19.2    18.1
Govemment Expenditures          ..      ..   37.6    45.9    46.3    39.1    39.0
Deficit 3/                      ..      ..  -28.0   -28.8   -27.8   -19.9   -20.9
Other Indicators
CPI                            2.9     9.9     6.8     9.6      8.5     9.4    10.3
Export Growth Rate 41         16.0    25.3    53.2    58.9    30.4      5.1    -4.9
Exports1GDP                   9.0      9.7    11.8    18.1    23.9    24.7    24.7
Import Growth Rate 41         2.2    20.0    -3.5    35.3    14.2   -15.6    -5.6
Imports/GoP                   35.8    37.1    35.6    30.3    43.0    35.7    35.5
Current Account (US$)        -74.7   -86.7   -69.8   -74.0   -71.0   -32.0   -35.7
Current Account/GDP          -38.7   -39.0   -25.1   -26.1   -26.5   -11.3   -14.4
Gross Foreign Exchange Resrves
(months of Imports)            5.4     5.7     7.3      7.6     7.2     7.7      9.3
Source: Staff estimates based on data provided by Govemment authorities
.. u Not available
t/ Exports of goods and services inciuding transfers
2/ Includes commercial debt Incurred for purchase of aircraft
3/ Excludes grants
41 In nominal and in US$ terms



- 17 -
ScheduleA
Page 2 of 2
BHUTAN: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS 1985-91
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Exports of Goods & NFS            38      41      54       75       93     101       92
Merchandise (FOS)                17      22      33       53       69      73       69
Non-Factor Servioes              21      19      21       22       24      28       23
ImportsofGoods&NFS               113     128      124     149      164     133      127
Merchandise (FOB)                70      83      81      109      124     105       99
Non-Factor Services              43      44      43       41       40      28       28
Net Factor Income                  0       0        0       0        0       0        0
(nterest per DRS)                 0       0        1       1        2       3        2
Net Current Transfers              0       0        0       0        0       0        0
(workers remittance)              0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Curr A/C Bal Before Off. Grants  -75     -87      -70     -74      -71     -32      -36
Net Officiai Transfers           83      95       96      70       77      45       52
CurrA/CSalAfterOtf.Grants          9       9       26      -4        6       13      17
Long-Term Capital Inflow           6      11       16      30       10      17        0
Direct Investment                ..
NetLTLoans(DRSdata)               6      11       16      28        8       4        5
Other LT Inflow (net)             0       0        0       2        2      13       -5
Total Other Items (net)         -20      -29     -59      -30      -22     -17      -29
Net Short Term Capital          -12     -17     -32       -8      -12      25      -26
Capital Flows N.E.I.              0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Errors and Ommissions            -8     -12     -27      -22       -9     -42       -4
ChangesinNetReserves               6       8       16       4        6     -13       13
NetCreditfromthelMF               7       5       18     -11        8
Other Reserves Changes          -1        3      -2       15       -2     -13       13
(in Percent)
Current Acount/GDP             -38.7   -39.0   -25.1   -26.1    26.5   -11.3   -14.4
Excluding Offical Transfers     4.4     3.9      9.5    -1.3      2.2      4.7     6.7
Debt Service Ratio 1/             ..       ..   11.0    18.0    18.9    30.1    22.9
Debt GDP 11                       ..       ..   10.4    13.9    26.0    30.8    34.0
Source: Staff estimates based on data provided by Government authorities
1 Includes commercial debt Incurred on account of aircraft purchases



- 18 -
Schedule A
BHUTA
THIRD FOSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financina Plan
Estimated Costs:                        lQaal          Foreign        Total
-----(US$ million)---------
A. National Forest Management             1.1            2.0           3.1
B. Social Forestry
1. Agroforestry                       0.2             0.5           0.7
2. Village Forest Management          0.3             0.3           0.6
C. Afforestation/Reforestation           0.3             0.0           0.3
D. Institutional Strengthening           1.0             1.8           2.8
Base Cost                             2.9             4.5
Physical Contingencies                0.1             0.1           0.2
Price Contingencies                   0.7             0.5           1.2
Total Project Cost                  3.              La           L2
Financing Plan:                         Local          Foreign        Total
-----------US$ million)----------
Kingdom of Bhutan                        0.8             0.0           0.8
IDA                                      2.6             2.8           5.4
Swiss Development Cooperation                            2.4            2
Total                             12                            8.9



- 19 -
fSched-ml" 
Page 1 of 2
BHUTAN
THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prgcurement Profile
(US$ million)
Procurement Procedure
Prol-act Comoonent                        Bbtr    BE              Total Cost
Civil Works                             0.8      0.1        -           0.9
(0.8)    (0.1)                  (0.9)
Equipment and Materials                  -       1.2        -           1.2
(1.2)                 (1.2)
Vehicles                                         0.9                    0.9
-      (0.9)                  (0.9)
Plantation Work                          -       0.7        -           0.7
(0.7)                 (0.7)
Training                                                   0 -0.9g      0.98
Technical Assistance                     -         -       1.8a         1.8$
Increm. Recurrent Costs                  -       1.6       0.8b         2.4
(1.6)                 (1.6)
TOTAL                        0.f8     Z.5     J.2            8g
(0.8)    (4.5)     (-)          (5.4)
a. Financed by SDC
b. Financed by RGOB
c. Figure does not add due to rounding.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



-20-
Schedulg C
Page 2 of 2
DisbursagZnIg
Amount       Percent of Expenditures
Category                (USS million)2   _    to be Financed
Civil Works                           0.8                 951
Equipment and Materials               1.1                100l
Vehicles                              0.8                100l
Plantation Work                       0.7                 95X
Incremental Recurrent Costs           1.4                 621
Unallocated                           P.
Total                          Lu4
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA FY                    94     95    96    97    98    99    2000    2001
---------(US$ million)------------------
Annual                   0.4    0.4   1.2   1.0   1.6   0.5    0.2       0.1
Cumulative               0.4    0.8   2.0   3.0   4.6   5.1    5.3       5.4



- 21 -
Schedule 
THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processirqg Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare            20 months (July 1990 - February 1992)
(b)  Prepared by                     Government with IDA assistance
(c)  First IDA Mission               November 1991
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure     May 1992
(e)  Post-Appraisal Mission           October 1992
(f)  Negotiations                    April 1993
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness   August 1993
(h) List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs Calcium Carbide Project (Cr. 1596-BHU)
PCR No. 11359 of November 25, 1992



-22-
SzhedulE
TFiE STATUS OF SANK GROUP OPRTMINS IN BHUTAN
A. STAT9MEtT OF UANl LQANS AND IDA CREDiTSa>
(As ofat h  91, 1SII9)
Amount In US$ Million
Olems cancellatIons)
Credit No.        Yeaw       Borror                   Purpos                  Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
2 credits fully disbursed                                                                  8.0
cr.  14W-BHU   1984         Bhutan        Forestry I                                      6.6            1.7
Cr.  1880-SHU   1968        Bhutan        Eduoation                                       4.2            3.8
Cr.  1S00-HU   1088         Bhutan        Second Foresty Development                      1.1           0.7
TOtal                                                         0.0       18.8           62 b>
ofwhich has been repaid                                      0.0        0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                0.0       18.8
Amount sod
of which repaid
Totea undisbursed                                                                      6.2
a>   No Bank loans have been made to Bhutan.
b>   The principal amounts of IDA credits are shown In US Dollar equivalent at date of negotIatins, as shown In the President's Report.
Undisbureed amounts shown In US Doliar equhalent are valued at the exchange rate applicable on the date of this statmen
In some cases, therefore, the undisbureed balance Indicates a dollar amount greater than the original principal credit amount
expressed In ddlars.
B. STATEMIENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As ofash 81. 1080
There are no IFC Investment.



IBhD 24011
a94D0t                       a9J30                        90JcoW                        90!30                         _          PHYSICAL RELIEF IN METERS                       92:00'
B HU TAN N
THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
, 0               XGPROJECT AREA
FORM MANAGEMENT UNIT (hIMUI
25                 SOKJOMTERS                                                                                                                                  -   PAVED ROADS'
I's     AIIMEE                                                                                                                                          UNPAVED ROADS, ROADS
UNDER CONTRiUCTION
t    AIRPORT
________________ ________________ _______________0        NATIONAL  CAPITAL
91'SS                          9130                  0   DISIACT CAPITLS
GASA                                                                                                            0 OTHER TOWNS
2R110           ^,~lfFf                                           ..
'--RIVERS
(                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES  
r   ~~~~~~~~~lINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
07~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70
5IT30 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~NS
2700'                                                                                                               GATSEI.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L-    GTSIHR 
- b    ,.fl.Wd   IGy_l ..
a4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                             PHU                                     r-- i@.6 d b e.SW  _
ARO8930                                9                          RO3                            9100                          9130
,D,I,PHO'D'R'ANGNUARY IN



