Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11666-BHU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRUTAN
THIiRD FORESTRY DEVELOPET PROJECT
JUNE 7, 1993
rMlL Uf-1ML u LUe-Y
Report No.:11666-BHU    Type: (SAR)
Title:  THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PRO,
Author: VAN WERSCH, H.
Ext. :81981 Room:D 9049 Dept.:SA1AG
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restiicted distribufton and may be used by edpients only In the performance of
ther ofcicul duties. its contents may not othernise be dbdosed witout Wodd Bank autorladou



CURRENCY EQUIVALNT
NW 1992)
Nglrum (NO)              -       U19.036
US1                      -       Nu 280
WflCITS AND MEAU%=
1 mtw (a)                         1.09 yad  d
1 -sun kiomte (m.3)           - 100 hb&ar   a)
are m           *              10,000 mm - 2A.4m     (se)
1 kiogram   g                 -    2.2 p_      Ob)
I   rc t  ton(mton)               1,000 kg - 2,2051bs
1 lcbk _mt e )                -   35.32 lcukfeet(cuft)
1 cubic mee On")              =   2828c ft (for true boa memmualt)
1FierS)                      =   0.26pgol
ABBIEVIATIONS. ACRtONYMS AND LOCALs1
AAC                      -Annual Aovable CUt
AiR                      -Affemstoetftoatatinn
BLC                BhW    Lvgf  Co_fvd
DAH                      -     eabetof Animal Heaboanix of Mfinistsy of Agricultu
FPO                      -Di;doa Ift    Offieer
DOA                      -Deparqumut of Agicutre of WMIBnt of Ag_cultr
DOF                      -Deparhment of Foresay
_                        -D
Dsngog-Didre Adhrar
ERR                      -Eco_o ic Rae of Retum
FAO                      -Food and Agcutwre Ornd"a of the Unied Natm
MRMD                     -Forest Rmaos M      ianqmat Dion of DOF
FRR                      -aUmda Rate of Retur
FM                       -Foret M__ogm  Unit
GDP                      -Grom Domestic Product
GE?                      41            r
GOWo                     -Loc Addio Bbok of 300-1,000 HBomudu
GIS                      .Geora*k Iformdtom Systm
IFAD                     -      _taadwal Fund for Agriuturl De _lpaat
LCB                      -Locd C      _mpalMre Uiog
NEC                      -Nationa E1knfrwm  Comm
MAI                      -M     An_nual   ot (mm'/yr/b
M&E                      M       _oit  and Evuao
MOA                      -Midry of Agiculture
AuPF                     -Ma    Pi= fwr Frsay Devpo*t
MTI                      -Miniy d Trade ad I _dary
NRTI                     -Natuil Resoure Training Insdtiu
P4.                      -per a_ne
PFO                      -Prject Factin Oie
PPD                      -4Pning and Pol  Dicy   n    o Minitr of Agcultur
PY                        Prc Year
RGOD                     -Roya GovemmntwofllMtan
RNR                      -Rmewal Natural Resore
SDC                      -swim Devipua Cooperation
SOB                      -StatinowntoFpenUb
TA                       -Techn    Aseistne
TOR                      -Term of R_ofe
UND?                     -United Nibs Devropue  Progrmm
Ub 3ALXK
Jul I to june30



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
sr Ap4AL B UM3RT
lER%D FORESUNRY DEMl]ELOEbUM F1RQ
CM MDrANdDPRM=ChS                      ....RY ......................... v
L $EC=X) AMi PROJECNr BAC1KGROUNdD
A. Intr duction        ........................                    ...1
B. M£aroecononmicSetting                   ...............          . 1
IL 2THE FORFQ RY SECMR
A. Forest Resourcs ....t ...........................Rc    .......... 4
B. Role of Forest Subsector in the Economy                        . 4
C Demndand Supply                          ....5
D. GovernmentPolicies                      .... . 6
E. Forest Legislation....                                             7
F. Forestry Istitutions                           . . . 8
G. M{ai Subsector Isses....                                           8
issues.............                                                9
Remedies                 .....11
HI Lassons from Past IDA Lending           .       ..13
L Rationae for IDA Involvement               . . ... 14
m. THEROEv
A  Project Objectives and Scope        .......16
B. ProjectrArea                  . ..16
C. Detailed Project Features  ........              .     ..17
National Forest             ...a..ge..ei.t..     .    .           17
Socal Forestry.....                                               19
Afforestation/Reforestation.     .......      ..       ......    22
Institutional Strengeng    . . ..            . ... . . . ... 22
Environmental Aspects. .........................*..... 24
This project is based on the findings of an appraisal mission wbich visited Bhutau in May
1992, and a post-appraisal mission caed out in October 1992. The appraisal mission
comprised Mess. S. Frelberg (Mison Leader), A Baneiee (IDA), R. Donovan,
J. Kozub, D. bMer, ?L Stewart (consults) and E Oberhoier (SDC). The post-
appraisa mission consisted of Messmr 0. Baykal and HL van Wersch (IDA).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onl in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatio



-
D. P1red Coss and Financng .. ..............................  25
E. Procureiment ......  ................ .............. ... 26
F. Disbursenents .. ....................................... 28
0. FinancialM angement,Accounts and Audits ...................  29
Iv. PROJECT ]MPLEMENTAllON
A. ProjectOrganizationand Mangement                                      30
Implementing Reeponsibility ....... . .....            ... ..... 30
Central Level Organization ................................. 30
FieldOrganization  ...................  30
Forest  Management Plans  ............ ............... 31
Extension and Training ................. ... .. .....   32
Resac ..........................  32
Tecbnical Assistance                                      .......  32
B. Pzoject Performance Review.        .      .............. ....  33
MIonitoig and Evaluation      ...            ..      ......          33
'Mid-Tern Review ..................... ....   33
Furest Sector DonorCoordination Meetings         . ....              33
V. DUIINR    BENEFI AND BS
A. IncrentProdaction  ................................ .. .. 34
B. Demand anid Markets        .................          ............ 36
Demnand for Wood ........................   36
The Market for Wood and Wood Products ..................... 36
Pies of Wood Products  ...............................   37
C. Project Benefits and Justification.. .......... ..... .....   38
Financial and Economic Benefits  ..........................  38
Financial Adysis .........................   38
Econonic Analysis ..................................... 39
Sensitivity to Changes in Costs and Benefits .................... 40
Initargble Benefits .............. 40
D. Einvironmental Impact . ......................... ........   41
E. Impact on Women           .    .    .......................    41
0. ProjectRisks                       ......... 41
GV.                            Poetik .......^***¢-.....-*¢v^00@***J.s 43
YL AQREBEhffMD REAVCHED AdND BUECX)bfUFlADl...                               43
3.1 ProjedcCostEstinates .......*..**.........................  25
32 Project FiacxglPln ......................           ........  26
3.3 P ocreu. .en.Po.                                  f i......... 27



M-
5.1 Expected Timber Yield from National Forest Management Units ..... 34
5.2   emena Production of National Forest Management Units ....... 34
53 Inrement Production from Afforestation/Reforestation  .     ......... 35
SA Incremental Production from Social Forestry Component ........... 35
5.5 Economic and Finncial Rates of Retum ....................... 40
5.6 Sensitivity of the ERR ................R... ... 40
1. Project Costs
Table1: Forest MnagementPlanning ........................... 45
Table 2: Forest Managementmplem           .. ................... 46
Table 3: Agroforesaty .....................  9....*............ 47
Table4: 4Village Forest nagement        ..      ...................... 48
Table5: Afforestation    ....................................... 49
Tble 6: Institutioal Strengtheng - Eastern Bhutan ..............  .. 50
Table 7:  SsttutionaiStrengtheging - Tbiphu  ......g.............. .   51
Table8: SummaryAccountbyProjectComponent                   ...  52
Table 9. Summary Accounts by Year ........     .................... 53
2. Operational Schedule for Village Forest Maagement Panning  .. ....... 54
3. IstutionaSt gningComponent .5........................... S
4. Technical Assistance .......................................... 56
5. Estinmated Schedule of Iisbursnents ........  ............................ 57
6. Key Perf)nmanceInd        dicatoro ..................s. ................. 58
7. Supervidon1Plan ............................................. 60
8. Economic and Fiaunia Analysis
Table 1: Aggregate Increase of Producdon of Major Forest Products .... 61
Table 2: Estimated Financial and Economic Prices of Logs,
Sawnwood and  ued ... ......................... .... ..  62
Table 3: Economic Costs and Benefits of Agroforestry
and VMage Forest  .anagement . ................. .           63
Table 4: Financal and Economic Costs and Benefits
of National Forest Management Units       .................... 65
Table 5: Fnancial and Economic Costs and Benefits
of Afforestation/Reforestation ....................     ... 67
Table 6: Combined Economic Costs and Benefits
in Eastem Bhutan ......................*.  9*9**9..... 69
9. Selected Doants and Data Avaable in te Project File ............. 71



- iv -
Deparment of Forestry            ...........Oranztin............. 74
IBRD No. 24019 - Third Forestry Development Project



BHUITAN
lIRD POREST RY DIMMVXOPMENT PROJ1a
Credit and Project Suary
lBorrower   lKgdom of Bhutan
Amount:      SDR 3.9 million (US$5.4 million equivalent)
,CoMnacier: Swiss Development Cooperation would provide US$2.7 million equivalent
Standard, with a maturity of 40 years
Project
D~ription:  The objective of the project is to support Bhutan's efforts to develop and
implement an approach for sustainable protection, masnagement and use of
its forest resources in line with its national development priorities. To
acbieve this objective, the project would: (a) adopt multiple-use
management of forest lands; (b) involve local people in managing the forest
to meet their basic requirements, as well Ps in increasing the level of
economic activity through social forestry practices; (c) rebabilitate degraded
forests to maintain their economic and envronmental benefits; and
(d) improve the planning and implementation cacty of government
rganizations. The project consists of four components: (i) National Forest
Management involving the planning and management of selected forests by
the government; (ii) Social Forestry involving rural communities in
managing forest areas allocated to them, and improving farm output by
introducing tree planting on private lands; (iii) Afforestation/Reforestation
involving rehabilitation of degraded forests on government lands; and
(iv) Institutional Strengthening including support for improved planning and
policy development, training and capacity building of the Department of
Forestry (DOF) at the field as well as central leveL
Benefits
AD1 Riss:    The project is expected to increase wood and non-wood producdon, reduce
idsiminate felling of trees, uncontrolled grazing and burning, improve
the value and productivity of forests, and encourage individual and
community participation in the management of forests. The social forestry
activities are expected to raise rural incomes by generating sigpificant
streams of financial and economic benefits. The project would also provide
for institutional strengthening of government entities involved in forestr
activities to support a rational   oach to forestry planning, strategy and
policy formulation, and to strengthen their operational capability. It is
expected that the comprehensive approach to forestry development



-vi -
introduced under the project will lend itself for later replication in other
parts of the country. In order to ensure that the Forest M ement, Soial
Forestry and Afforestation components take into consideration the
appropriate protection of the environment and assure foest sustainability,
the project provides for periodic environmental monitoring throughout the
implementation of the project. The project is subject to two main risk
elements. The first main risk is the possible delay in project
implementation due to low absorptive capacity of DOF and the general lack
of trained personnel in Bhutan. The institutonal support provided by the
project and the human resource planning that went into the prepskration of
the project will reduce this risk considerably. Further, the mid-term project
review is expected to furnish the necessary feedback information to keep the
project mageable and realistic in relation to the limited human resources
available within the country. Ihe second risk is a possible poor response
by the local population to the projeces initiatives. Since the project
emphasizes people's participation in the management of forest resources,
success will very much depend upon involvement of local villagers The
project wil allocate considerable time and resources for adequate
preparation and extension work to educate the public thus substan
reducing the risk of poor participation.
Egimate Proect Costs:
Forei f gn  
--UST  million-
A. National Forest Mnagement      1.1      2.0         3.1
B. Socal Forestry
1. Agroforestry                02        0.5        0.7
2. Village Forest Management   03        0.3         0.6
C  Afforestation/Reforestation    03       0.0         03
D. Institutional Strengthening    1.0      1.8         2.8
Base Cost                        2 9
Physical Contingencies          0.1      0.1         0.2
Price Contingencies             0.7       05         1.2
Total Project Cost            la          



-vii-
Finacing Plan:
Local    EQrB9i         ta
-          US$ milUon
Kingdom of Bhutan                 0.8       0.0          0.8
IDA                               2.6       2.8          5.4
Swiss Development Cooperation    Da        2A           27
Total
EWm=d Disbus n:
IDA Ff                         M   2 94SE 22   222 2001
= =  Us$ million     o
Anmual                         0.4  0.4  12  1.0  1.6  0.5  0.2   0.1
Cumulative                     0.4  0.8 2.0 3.0 4.6  5.1  5.3   54
omiic Rate of R : 19%
.Man: IBRD No. 24'19 - Tbird Forestry Development Project



TlHIRD FOREYI DEVILOMEMM ERJC
I. SECIO-R AND PRQJ=C BA1XGL
A. Jnluctiou
1.1      Forests are the largest renewable natural resource in Bhutan. The Royal
Government of Bhutan (RGOB) has been extremely conscioas of the potential for
environmental damage from uncontrolled exploitation of forest resources and unsustainable
land use practices. The Government has consistently emphasized conservation and natural
resource management in its national development plans and is -..w  -'.paring a
comprehensive conservation strategy.  Nevertheless, increasing humar X ) lvestock
populations are beginning to exert appreciable pressure on forest and Land f ;urces in
accessible forest areas, especially in eastern Bhutan. While resource degrada,on is not
acute at existing population and extraction levels, it can become severe in 20-50 years. In
the more populated areas, forests are degrading in quality due to overextraction of vahable
species for fuelwood, timber and mior forest products, and uncontrolled grazing by
livestock There is a growing demand for construction tmber in urban and rural areas as
development activities increase and cash incomes rise. Development is also creating more
wood-based industries dependent upon forest resources. And the road network is being
expanded, providing greater access to-and pressure on-forests.
1.2      In line with its major concern for rational uanagement of forest and agricultural
resources, and for curbing forest degradation and environmental deterioration, RGOB
requested IDAXs assistance to implement a third forestry project in eastern Bhutan. While
the two previous IDA forestry credits (Credit 1460-BHU and Credit 1900-BHU) were aimed
at undertaig afforestation programs and in addressing a serious pest outbreak, the
proposed Credit would substantially broaden the scope of IDA!s involvement in the sector.
The project would assist RGOB to assess and manage forest resources, rehabilitate degraded
forest lands through social forestry and afforestation, improve the viability of farming
systems through farm forestry, and ensure the sustained supply of forest products to local
inhabitants and wood-based industries. The proposed project would follow a sectoral
development approach focusing on all aspects of forestry development in the eastern region
of the country, which would be replicable in other areas of Bhutan in due course.
B. MacrocconoiSing
13       Bhutan is a small landlocked country covering about 46,600 km2 in the eastem
Himalayas. It is bordered on the west, south, and east by the Indian states of Siddrm, West
Bengal, Assam, and Arunachal Pradesh, respectively, and on the north by the Tibetan



-2-
Autonomous Region of China  Most of the landscape is mountainous, with elevations
ranging from 160 m to 7,600 rn. The total population, of which 95% is rura}, is estimated
at 0.6 million and growing at about 2.4% per annum  The gross domestic product (GDP)
per capita is below US$2001. Overall, the GDP growth rate in the last decade has been
satisfactory at 6.3% p.a, well ahead of the annual population growth rate. Bhutan is one
of the few countries in Asia that has a shortage of labor and there is virtually no
unemployment. Exports have increased tenfold in the 1980s, to 30%o of GDP. Trade with
India is essentially free. The bulk of exports go to India and consist mainly of cement,
timber and forest products, and fruit crops. Prospects for exports to third countries are
limited, but there is increasing potential for trade with Bangladesh and Germany. Imports
consist primarily of nonwood fuel, manufactured goods and some basic foods. Although
imports have grown rapidly, the current account deficit is now 15% of GDP, down from a
high level of 40-60% of GDP in the early 1980s.
1.4      Administratively, the country is now divided into 20 districts (dzongkhas). The
District Admninstrations report directly to the Ministry of Home Affauis through appointed
District Administrators (dzongdags).
1.5      The agricultural sector is the mainstay of the economy, with farming, animal
husbandry and forestry accounting for about 45% of GDP in 1990. Forestry alone
contributes about 11% while the manufacturin and minin sectors account for about 8%.
Servces, including transport, trade, construction, and government services, account for about
30%, with net rental income contributing 8% of total GDP. Although the majority of
Bhutanese are farmers, there has been little development of irrigation and mechanization
or adoption of improv;vd farming practices in agriculture. Shortage of skilled agricultural
workers and of unskldled rural labor has made it all the more difficult to introduce modem
techniques of cultivation in the country. Average farm size is small, 2 ha per household plus
access to public or private forests for grazing, gathering fuelwood, fodder and shifting
cultivation. The proportion of rural landless households is low, about 2%. Sharecropping
or leasing is not yet widespread (about 20%o), but may be expanding due to restricted access
to public land. Since the land reform of the 1950s, the statutory limit of 10 ha of arable
land per household is strictly enforced. There has also been a steady shift in land use,
particularly of broadleaf forests to cultivation and grazing. Livestock continues to be a vital
part of the rural economy contributing milk, meat, manure and draft power. But the
growing stock of cattle is also presenting serious problems of forest degradation since
grazing is not controlled or regulated adequately in Bhutan.
1.6      Through successive five-year development plans, Bhutan has established a
network of basic infrastructure and economic and social services. The Government has
generally pursued sound economic policies, characterized by prudent macroeconomic
management and exemplary emphasis upon protection of the environment and the country's
cultural heritage. Bhutan has, however, been dependent upon foreign aid to finance most
of its development efforts. The country also faces formidable development constraints
1.    Macroeconomic numbers quoted are best estimates available.  Some, in
particular aggregate forest sector statistics, are approximations.



-3 -
associated with Its remoteness and rugged topography, limited  aacity to plan and
implement programs, and a shortage of trained manpower. Bhutau now faces the challenge
of achieving modem development, with only its forests and hydropower as natural resources,
without jeopardizing its political and economic integrity, culturl traditions, rich natural
heritage, and unspoiled eonment. Bhutan's strategy for the future is that development
should not occur at the expense of its natural and cultural heritage and should be integrated
with environmental conservation.



.4-
IL TE FORTRY SECIR
A. FoestR ces
2.1      Bhutan, for its size, has perhaps the greatest biological diversity of any country
in Asia and contains some of the best unspoiled ecosystems in the Himalayas. Located in
the upper catchments of Bhutan's major rivers, the fragile mountain habitats of the country
have national and international significance. The countrys diverse flora and fauna is the
result of its geographic location in the eastern Himalayas, within an area that extends
through both the Indo-Malayan (Oriental) and Palearctic biogeographical regions. Some
500 bird species have been recorded and at least 5,000 vascular plants are believed to exdst
in the country. A nmmber of mammal species found in Bhutan are threatened with
extinction. While RGOB recognizes the need to preserve its unique natural environment
and has established protected areas comprising some 20% of the country's total land area,
only a few of these protected areas are under effective management. These areas are under
threat of habitat modification by uncontrolled forest utilization, livestock grazng and
burning practices. The Government's Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation, which
was set up in 1991 with assistance from external donors, will provide the financial resources
for RGOB to develop and support the institutional capacity for bring the protected areas
under effective management The trust fimd was the beneficiary of a Global Environment
Faciity (GEF) grant of US$10 million in 1992.
2.2      The forests of Bhutan are in two of the country's three physiographical zones,
wMth the Northern Zone covered by perpetual snow, glaciers, barren land, and alpine
grasslands, at altitudes in excess of 4,000 m. The Central Zone, wbich lies between altitudes
of 1,000 m and 4,000 m., contains the important inhabited areas of the country and the
major forest areas. Forests between 1,000 m and 2,000 m in humid areas are classified as
warm broadleaf forest and contain a mixture of evergreen and deciuuous broadleaf tree
species. In the drier areas at this altitude chir pine is common. Cool broadleaf forests are
found on moist exposed slopes above the warm broadleaf forests. Evergreen oak forests
occur at the same elevation as cool broadleaf forast but on drier sites. Forests above an
altitude of 2,500 m consist maily of temperate conifers with some hardwoods. The conifer
forests, especially blue pine and spruce, are the main forest ypes of commercial significance
in Bhutan. In some accessible areas subtropical and warm broadleaf forests are also of
importance. The Southern Zone comprises the foothills of the Himalayas rising to an
altitude of about 2,000 m; here the dimate is subtropical and dense forests still exist
Forests between 200 m and 1,000 ra, found among the southern foothills, are known as
subtropical forests and contain largely tropical species.
B. Role of Forest Subsector in the Economy
2.3      Because so many inhabitants of Bhutan depend on them, forest resources play
an important role in the conservation of environment quality, the welfare of the rural
population and the productivity of agricultural lands. According to a recent estimate from



-s -
the Master Plan for Forestry Development (MPFD), Bhutan is about 57% forested (2.3
million ha). Previous estimates put forested land at 6096, but the difference has been
attnrbuted to a reduced estimate of total land area, now set at 4.04 million ha. A 1983 study
bad estimated degraded forest at 147,000 ha, while the recent MPFD estimates the area at
232,000 ha. The forestry sector contributes directly about 11% to gross domestic product
(GDP) and generates about 3% of government revenues through forest royalties, sales by
the Bhutan Logging Corporation (BLC) and the Department of Forestry (DOF), and excise
duties and sales tax levied on timber and wood products. In terms of export value, major
forest products (such as logs, sawn timber, and veneer) and minor products (such as resin)
account for about 20% of exports, second only to electricity. Furthermore, protection of
watersheds by forests has also contributed greatly to the development of hydropower plants.
The forest sector is estimated to provide employment to more than 25,000 people, mostly
in non-monetized fuelwood collection. Forestry is also of strategic importance because the
young and expanding industrial sector is largely dependent on forest resources. Wood
processing plants have been established in southern Bhutan and the private sector wood-
based industry consists of small sawmills, veneer plants, and enterprises including fuumiture,
packing crates, tea chests, broomsticks, matches, pine resin and charcoal manufactri
Forests are also a major source for leaf litter, forage and fodder, edible fruits, essential oils
(such as lemon grass), and medicinal plants. In addition, the forests are a tourist attraction.
C Demand and Supply
2.4      For centuries the people of Bhutan have depended on the forest to satisfy their
need for fuelwood, home construction and inputs for their farming systems. Although
subject to government rules and regulations, use of Bhutan's forests by households has been
traditionally sanctioned as part of customary use rights. Wood demand from monasteries,
goveznment offices and, more recently urban centers, schools and government institutions
such as the military and police add significantly to the total demand for wood in the country.
More than 98% of the domestic household energy demand and over 83% of the national
energy balance for all uses is met from fuelwood. Total household sector fuelwood
consumption in 1988 was estimated at 1.1 million in3, and all sectors together accounted for
about 1.3 million in3. The estimated annual per capita fuelwood consumption of 2.36 m3
in Bhutan is one of the highest in the world. Villagers also depend on the forest for grazing
their cattle and for collection of fodder and litter for livestock The MPFD estimates that
of the 1.14 million tons of forage potential in Bhutan, about two-thirds comes from forests.
All individuals have the right to use government forest land to graze their catde. Most of
the land now used for agriculture was originally under forest. Wood demand from road
crews is also significant but unquantified, and their right, as well as that of the army and
police, to cut unlimited quantities of timber and fuelwood has often resulted in
indiscriminate felling of trees along the roadsides.
25       The total sustainable annual allowable cut (AAC) in Bhutan is estimated at
about 1.2 million m3/yr (excluding fuelwood) by MPFD with about 560,000 n3 economically
accessible. The present annual wood extraction (excluding fuelwood), however, is about
270,000 n3 (1989) of which about 70,000 m3 is exported to India by the DOF through
auctions. Domestic sawmils process about 45,000 m3 of roundwood, but this is significantly



.6-
less than their rated capacity. There is considerable scopet therefore, for increasing the
current low levels of extraction and expanding receipts from the sale and export of forest
products, provided extrction takes place under a sound forest management and utilization
plan. Unfortunately, there is a lack of reliable forest inventory data --pon which to base
management plans, as well as a lack of trained manpower to prepare such plans. No
estimates for demand and supply of non-wood forest products (such as medicinal plants,
essential oils, mushrooms, resins, dyes, and ornamentals) are currently available, but these
products are also considered valuable resources.
D. fovrmen  Policies
2.6       Forest use in Bhutan has occurred long before legal land tenure systems of
government forest ownership and control were put in place. Initially, government policy was
instituted to ensure an adequate supply of forestry needs for all of its ibihabitants and was
the basis for the development of customary user-rights. The policy also included the
sustained management of the forestry resources, which has been a cardinal rule for all state-
managed forest"y. These concepts were incorporated in the Forest Act of 1969, which
declared that aU land in Bhutan not privately owned was to be 'Government Reserved
Forests" and its use would be allowed through a system of permits for authorized limited
rights. It also led to Bhutan embarking on a program of establishing protected areas of
parks, sanctuaries and reserves whose area now totals 970,000 ha.
2.7       By the late 1970s, with increased contacts outside Bhutan, forest industries,
especially for export purposes, became attractive as a means of earning foreign exchange.
The Gedu mills were established and RGOB considered establishing additional instalations
of this type in the southern part of the country but later abandoned the idea. During this
period, Government inclination was to develop high value-added industrial production on
the basis of intensified utilization of forest resources. During this period it enacted the
Land Act of 1979, which went further in defining ownership of land and consolidated and
superseded all pre-existing conditions of traditional land use. Furthermore, registration of
private lands was limited to a maxium of 25 acres per household for specific operations
such as rice or vegetable gardens and all trees on private lands, except that fruit trees
planted as orchards belonged to the Govermnent. However, by the late 1980s, it became
clear that the sector was unable to fully supply the new forest industries, as no long-range
plan had been instituted to assure regeneration of large areas of harvested forests and global
conditions had made nations cognizant of the need to institute conservation measures to
sustain its natural resources.
2.8       At present, the Government is much more realistic on the need to meet local
demand and including supplies to existing industries, while ensuring the sustaiability of its
forest resources. The close proximity of the forests to the people, the ruggedness of the
terrain, the lack of extensive communication and transport systems makes an effective
control of the forest difficult. The Government further recognizes that if forest utilizadon
is not conducted through a systematic forest management program, existing resources will
continue to deteriorate, especially at locations with relatively high demand. Thus, current
policy is to utilize the forest on a sustainable basis, plan for multiple-use utilization, improve



.7-
and strengthen the efficiency of forestry sector instittutions, and involve and train local
people in contributing to appropriate resource utlization and, to a lesser extent, in resource
expansion.
E. EQr=i LLgislhin
2.9      Tle utilization of forest resources in Bhutan is regulated by several laws and
policies, including the Bhutan Forest Act of 1969, the National Forest Policy of 1974, the
Land Act of 1979, the 1984 Bhutan Logging Corporation charter, the Forest Policy of 1985,
and the Social Forestry Rules of 1990. Under the Forest Act of 1969, Bhutan consolidated
numerous directives relating to forest rights, forest products, and royalties. The Act
protected the countiys forests by claiming as "Government Reserved Forests" those lands
over which no one had permanent, inheritable or transferable rights. Felling of trees,
burning of forests by shifting cultivators, hunting and fishing in forest reserves, national
parks or wildlife sanctuaries were strictly prohibited and brought under the control of DOF.
2.10      To promote social forestry, the Social Forestry Rules were adopted under the
Forest Act in 1990. These rules allow trees planted on private land to remain free of
royalty. The rules also let five or more households obtain users' rights to an area of
degraded government forest as long as a revegetation and management plan is followed.
Royalty rates are then reduced or rescinded. Finally, individuals may apply for leases under
the rules with certain conditions.
2.11      In 199l, as part of its efforts to prepare the Master Plan for Forestry
Development, Government formulated a revised Forest Policy Statement that emphasizes
the necessity for balancing the nation's conservation and economic development goals. It
stipulates that forest resources will be managed in a scientific and systematic manner, and
that this resource base will be expanded through viable investment programs. It
acknowledges the necessity to allocate forest resources to several management regimes, such
as protection forests, production forests and community forests, and to clearly delineate
these. The policy recognizes the importance of peopWs participation in the management,
use and expansion of resources, and calls for multiple-use management in recognition of the
realities of the country. The policy also promotes creation of a rational economic
environment which would place a correct economic value on forest resources with a view
to promoting efficient domestic use as well as industrial development and trade.
2.12      RGOB has taken three significant initiatives toward implementing the new
Forest Policy: (a) preparation of a draft Forest and Nature Conservation Act that would
replace the Forest Act of 1969; (b) formulation of a program framework for development
of the forestry sector; and (c) decision to revise the Social Forestry Rules with a view to
more effectively promote community and private forest management.



-8-
F. EoJInstitutions
2.13    .lfginatry fL AMdW1hure. MOA is the leading government institution responsible
for the Renewable Natural Resources (RNR) sector and is responsible for developing RNR
sector policies and strategies to be implemented by its departments, which include Forestry,
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and the Food Corporation of Bhutan.
2.14     D m n= of Foresy. DOF was established in 1959 to manage the country's
forests, regulate access to and utilization and protection of the forest resources and enforce
restrictions and collect taxes and dues. Its functions also include afforestation, pest
management, and wildlife conservation. DOF has four functional divisions as follows:
(a) Forest Resources ManagementDivision, (b) Afforestation Division, (c) Wildlife Division,
and (d) Research Division, and the Bhutan Forestry Institute. In addition, it has 11
territorial divisions covering together the totality of the country. The territorial divisions are
headed by a Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) who supervises three to five Forest Rangers
which in turn oversee Forest Beat Officers. Territorial duties include demarcation, forest
mnanagement, afforestation, forest protection, wildlife management, watershed management,
and extension.
2.15     Bbutan Logging Co nIkm  In 1984, RGOB established the Bhutan Logging
Corporation (BLC) as a semi-autonomous body to take over logging operations from DOF.
BLC administers logging, reforestation, processig, and marketing of timber and other forest
products. At present, BLC operations do not extend beyond westem Bhutan, so local
extraction and supply of timber in other parts of the countly are the responsibility of DOFs
territorial divisions.
2.16     Minist of Trade and Industry. MTI regulates the establishment of wood-based
industries, provided DOF determines sufficient forest resources exist to support the
proposed industry. The planning link between these two agencies, however, is weak and a
proposal has been made to establish a Timber Industry Authority. Such a body could
coordinate these matters and avoid industnes being set up without adequate assurance of
raw materal supply.
G. Main Subsector Issues
2.17     Unlike most developing countries, Bhutan has been able to avoid excessive forest
degradation because of its favorable land/man ratio. But growing human and livestock
population, economic development and expanding external markets have placed new
demands on forest resources. In certain parts of the country, particularly in the eastern
region, there is growing pressure on forests for fuelwood, timber and forage. Accessible
areas of some forests are being overutilized, with soil erosion problems mounting. This and
major policy, institutional, and economic issues constrain the development of the forestry
sector in Bhutan.



-9-
Issues
2.18     Bhutan's constraints to carrying out its forestry policy are: (a) technical,
(b) institutional, (c) strategic, (d) legal/procedural and (e) economic.
2.19     The ical s.   One of the major constraints to improved forest development
is the lack of local expertise, especially of tecbnical competence in the planning and
management of forest resources. An increase in trained personnel is urgently needed to
strengthen existing institutions in the areas of forestry planning, management, trainng,
research, conservation, agroforestry, extension, and engineering.
2.20     Institutional Issues. There are staff shortages in many government forestry
operations. These indlude staff in DOF and in the Planning and Policy Division (PPD) of
the Ministry of Agriculture at the central government a «l and the Divisional Forest Offices
in the various districts of Bhutan. Shortages have beei i acerbated by the loss of staff who
have left the country in recent years. Plans to increase scientific forest management,
including contacts with local people, will place additional demands on DOF staff. Also,
technically qualified and experienced counterpart personnel are needed to work with
international specialists provided under various externally-funded projects. Because these
shortages limit program implementation and opportunities for transfering expertise to local
staf- serious attention must be given to provide both formal education and trmning.
2.21     At present there are multiple systems for forest management/production
operations in Bhutan. In the Gedu area, the Gedu Wood Man rn Corporation and
Bhutan Board Products Limited have direct responsibility for production, harvesting, sales
and profit of forestry operations in the concessions allocated to them. In the Bumthang
area, a quasi-corporation conducts forestry operations with Swiss Government grant funds,
with RGOB receiving the proceeds net of operating costs. In the Paro and Haa valleys, all
forestry production operations are carried out by the semi-autonomous BLC using their own
funds. A fourth system is being operated by DOF in other areas using budget funds for
operations and with revenues going directly to the Treasury.
2.22     There also exist uncertainties due to the recent decentrization of government
activities. At one time, the country was to be divided into four zones, each with a Zonal
Administrator in charge of all activities. At present the plan is for governmental
administrative responsibilities to be given to the present 20 district (dzonghag)
administrations with a view to reduce dependence upon central government and return more
authority to local levels.
223      Strategic I. Despite the relatively small size of the country, considerable
support has been provided by eternal donors to forestry development programs.
Unfortunately, this support has been overly fragmented and lackng in adequate
coordination. Many of these programs have been initiated too rapidly without sufficient
consideration for the long-range impact on the sector. At present, some ten external donors
are providing about US$21.6 million equivalent for forestry development. The multiplicity
of international agencies involved has resulted in overlapping mandates, poor coordination,
and sub-optimal allocation of resources. Similarly, poor and inadequate coordination among



- 10-
government ministries and departments has resulted in fragmented programs without any
comprehensive overview of the sector as a whole.
2.24      IgaLk=ue& Government, until recently, has been overly conservative and
cautious in adopting reforms for sustaining its forests and involving local people. A Clear
mandate is needed for the implementing agencies to adopt and pursue new development
initiatives. This requires a change in the Forest Act currently in force.
2.25      Statutory government ownership of trees restricts the scope of community and
social forestry programs, as well as private involvement in afforestation/reforestation.
Charging of royalties for sale of forest products from privately registered land dampens
private interest and initiative in farm forestry activities. Amendment of the 1990 Social
Forestry Rules is required to resolve these problems to encourage greater community and
individual participation in forestry activities. Rigid provisions requiring preparation of
management plans for all commercial forest units may delay unduly commercial forest use,
particularly in view of the inadequate institutional capacity for preparing such plans. The
existing laws on shiftng cultivation, which place a lower limit of 12 years on the fallow
period, have resulted in forest degradation  Present laws regulate and limit grazing on
Government Reserved Forests. A total ban on grazing may not be feasible, but measures
to more effectively manage grazing are essential. The existing sitation presents serious
conflicts in land use between the interests of sutnable forest management and livestock
production.
2.26       conomic          Bhutan undervalues its forestry resources because of
government intervention in pricing and distribution. A complex allocation and distribution
system is in place for fuelwood and timber products. In the allocation of forest resources,
traditional use rights (fuelwood and construction needs) are given priority over industial
uses and exports. Forest industries therefore suffer from seiious wood supply shortages,
which are aggravated by the lack of forest management plans.
2.27      In addition to the dual pricing structure which exsts for domestically used versus
exported wood, there is a two-tier pricing structure for urban versus rural use. Unftl the
Forest Act of 1969 become effective, use of the forests was free to all. Since then, highly
subsidized rates for fuelwood and timber for house constructon have been introduced which
are differentiated according to urban or rural use. In some cases rural consumers are
required to pay a small royalty for wood extraction. The subsidies and low royalties have
resulted in prices that do not reflect the scarcity value of forest resources. This has led to
inefficiency in use and misallocation of scarce resources. There have been no recent
investments, for example, in efficient logging and sawmill equipment and most loans for
equipment to private sector sawmills are non-performing.
2.28      Seedlings being distnbuted by government agencies for agroforestry and
horticulture are provided free or at higbly subsidized prices. Because farmers appear
prepared to pay the full, non-subsidized cost for seedlings of their choice, this practice needs
to be reexamined. Experience within and outside Bhutan shows that free distnbution or
subsidized pricing have often resulted in inadequate care of plants, wastage by farmers and



- 11 -
poor accountability of government departments responsible for production and distribution
of nursery stock. It also has prevented or dampened the growth of private nurseries.
Re,medies
2.29     TechnicaL-Remedim   Provisions need to be made for in-service taining,
increased formal training including some training abroad, and specialization in key areas
essential to more effective planing, management and utilization of forestry resources on
a long-term sustaiable basis. This may be best obtained at existing local and foreign
institutions such as the Forestry Institute at Taba and the Natural Resources Training
Institute at Lobesa, which offer two-year training courses for foresters and a one-year course
for forest guards; at the two-year course in Kurseong, India, for forest rangers; and at the
Indira Gandhi Forest College in Dehra Dun, India, for DFO training.
230       mtitutional Remesdie. Government needs to decide who will manage, harvest,
process and sell forest and forest products. A clear delineation is required as to the
respective roles of the public and prvate sectors (including rural communities) in forest
management and utilization. Government has established a special committee to
recommend, by December 1993, wbich of the four exsting production management regimes
will be selected for future management and utilization of its forests. At negoffations an
agreement was reached that RGOB will provide to IDA by August 31. 1994. for its review
and comment? a recommendation on the management and operational arranm     it
intends to adopt for its national forest management units and that the recommendatfon.
aking into account IDA's comments? will be iiplenmented no later than July 1. 1995.
2.31     There is also a need to decide on the roles of the central government and the
dzonkhags in the administration of forestry resources so that their respective authority and
responsibilities may be dearly defined. The implementaton exrience of the Third
Forestry Development Project is expected to provide valuable insights in this regard.
232      StrategiandLeRgalRemedies. The many donor-assted forestryprograms need
to be integrated into an overall national strategy for forestry development. Design of such
a strategy wil also require a joint planning effort of all government agencies involved with
forestry. RGOB is currently in the process of reviewing and updating its strategy for the
forestry sector. RGOB's 1974 Forest Policy envisaged that 60% of land area should be
forested and recognized the need for forest demarcation, inventory and preparation of
management plans. The revised 1979 policy was more conservafive in its approach to
utilizing forest resources and restricted logging by commercial private operators. The
preparation of the MPFD, the Forest Policy Statement of 1991, the RNR component of the
Seventh Five-Year Development Plan, the Forestry Sector Programme Framework (1992),
the Social Forestry Rules (1990) and the draft Forest and Natural Conservation Act of 1992
are evidence of the Government's determination to develop a firm policy and stategy for
this sector. The RNR Policy emphasizes sustainable resource development, improvement
in rural income and living standards and environmental conservation. The Forestry Sector



-12-
Program Framework (1992) reiterates RNR policy objectives and provides a coherent and
conmprehensive set of investment, policy and institutional program  elements for
implementation in the medium term. RGOB is maldng effective use of the planning
framework for the RNR sector and the Forestry Sector Program Framework to deploy the
donor resources in a more rational way than in the past. The number of donors operating
in forestry has been reduced, and donors are persuaded to concentrate on a particular
region. Thus, the RNR sector in eastern Bhutan will be supported during the Seventh Plan
period by three donors: forestry by IDA under the proposed project, agriculture and
livestock by the Interonal Fund for Agriculture Development (IFAD), and UNDP for
decentralized institutional development with explicit efforts to coordinate among these
projects as necessary.
2.33     Further work is required to make the legal framework internally consistent and
to facilitate implementation of the new development initiatives in the sector. The
Gove'mment is, at present, finalizng revisions in the draft Forest and Nature Conservation
Act as well in the Cnmmunity Forestry Rules. The Draft Forest and Nature Conservation
Act ana the draft revised Community Forestry Rules have been discussed at negotiations
and RGOB has agreed to take IDA's comments into account in finalizing these documents.
Adgptio of the revised Communty Fesr Rules. taking into acou  IDA!s comments.
il be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
2.34     Eonoic Remedis. Bhutan needs to rationalize its subsidies on use of forest
products, deregulate the distribution of forest products, develop a system for assessing true
stumpage, and develop measures to protect the domestic market from the adverse influences
of the imperfect markets of neighboring countries. RGOB also needs to reform its pricing
structure to reflect market prices and plan for resource uses that wil bring about significant
long-term benefits to the forestry sector. With the assistance of the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United nations (FAO), RGOB has recently undertaken a review of its
imber pricing and marketing policies with emphasis on logging forest concessions, royalties
and processing for different markets for wood. It is anticipated that the Government will
institute an appropriate timber pnrcing policy in the near future. A draft action plan for
policy reform of forest product pricing and marketing was discussed at negotiations. &A
agreement was reached with the Government that an action plan for such reform will be
agreed with IDA no later than July 1. 1994, and that the agreed action plan will be
subsequently implemented by the Governnt.
235      To reduce the subsidy burden on the Government and to ensure farmers' real
interest in growing trees, full-cost pricing of tree seedlings should be introduced gradually
and nurseries should be privatized. The principles of a phase-out plan for government
seedling production and price subsidies were discussed at negotiations. An ==M was
reached that RGOB will send to IDA no later than March 31, 1994. a detailed glan for
privatizatfon of seedling production and distribution for IDA!s review and comments, and
that the final plan. taking into account IDA's views, will be implementea thereafter but not
later than July 1. 1994.



- 13 -
H. Lessos from Past IDA Lending
2.36     IDA has supported forestry development in Bhutan since 1984 under two
projects. The Forestr Deselopment Project (Credit 1460-BHU; US$5.5 million) became
effective in 1984. It was designed to support RGOB's efforts to develop DOF's capacity to
plan and operate an integrated logging and reforestation program in the context of the
country's long-term goal of sustainable management of the forest reserves to ensure the
long-term supply to the newly established wood-based industries and to increase export
earnings. The Credit was closed on September 30, 1992. In spite of unplanned changes in
the project desciption, the project's physical targets were either met or exceeded as were
its objectives in developing technical skills. However, the sustainbility of the projects
achievements is uncertain due to (a) RGOBs reluctance to sustain afforestation activities
without external financing support, (b) lack of a solid commercial basis for ongoing
plantation management, (c) failure to involve local people as beneficiaries of the plantation's
products and revenues beyond their role as providers of plantation labor, and (d) physical
destruction and lack of effective supervision resulting from the civil disturbances in southem
BhatanL The proposed Third Forestry Development Project builds on this experience in that
it aims at maldng forest development activities in eastern Bhutan financially self-sustaining
through insisting on a viable management regime for national forest management units;
beneficiary participation through village forest management, as well as involvement in
planning for national forest nagement; and rationalizing the economic and financial
incentive framework through changes in price policy and forest legislation.
2.37     Thbe Second estry Develpnt Projet (Credit 1900-BHU; US$1.06 million),
cofinanced with the Government of Switzerland, became effective in 1988. The project
supports RGOBs efforts in salvage logging, pest management and reforestation in pest-
affected conifer forests in three districts of western Bhutan. It provides tchnical and
management assistance to BLC and DOF. A major insttutional benefit from the project
has been the experience gained by DOF in the timely preparation of forest management
plans, which serves as the foundation for expanding planned forest management undertaken
by the proposed Third Forestry Development Project The project is proceeding according
to schedule and expected to be completed at the end of 1993.
238      A forestry component under the Calcium Carbide Pjet (Credit 1596-BHU)
aimed at developing a 1,000 ha forest plantation near the plant site of Bhutan Calcium
Carbide and Chemicals Limited to provide raw material for charcoal required in the
manufacturing process. This component has been unsuccessful for the following reason:
RGOB did not allocate the required forest area to the plant, and provided instead a much
smaller area located in eastern Bhutan, thus making the plant largely dependent on import
of carbon materials from India.
2.39     Through the GEF, the Bank is supporting the establishment and operation of
a Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation in Bhutan which will fund bio-dversity
programs aimed at strengthening the management of protected forest areas and wildlife
preserves. The project became effective on November 5, 1992.



. 14-
2.40     The World Bank has tried to learn from the experience gained in its lending for
forestry development in general through project completion reports and speial reviews
including a recent Operations Evaluation Department review of the Bank's experience in
forestry development. Problems of a general nature for all Bank/IDA-funded forestry
projects include: delays in project mobilization, institudonal weaknesses, and inadequate
local fing. The major lesson to be learned from the ongoing forestry projecs in Bhutan
is that to promote sustainable development of forests resources, It is important that forest
inventories be carried out in a timely manner and that management plans be prepared that
integrate the needs of local people and wood-based industries and of national sector goals.
The projects also reveal some of the social and techical issues in afforestation and
reforestation, notably problems of grazing, monoculture and high weeding costs. These
lessons have been taken into consideration in the design of the proposed project.
L Rational for IDA
2.41     IDA's experience with the implementation of the earlier two forestry projects
has been positive and provides a good basis for condmiing lending support to Bhutan in this
important sector. The forestry sector has perhaps the highest growth potential and its
contribution to GDP can be incased considerably. Since IDA initiated assistance to the
forestry sector with its first Forestry Development Project, it has played an important role
in supporting forestry development and conservation, and has been a major discussant
among donors on forestry issues in Bhutam IDA!s role increased with the Second Forestry
Development Project, in particular through its key support in the preparation of forest
manlagement plans which have set a standard for the sector. RGOB requested IDA to
contue its support for forestry development by askig it to prepare a Third Forestry
Development Project with a specific focus on easmn Bhutan because of increased pressure
on forest resources in that region which has received relatively little development assistance.
The project follows the Bank's Forest Policy2 and is fully consistent with RGOB's Sector
Strategy and Forestry Sector Programme Framework in that it addresses the following
critical issu: (a) sustnability of forest management; (b) peoples participation; (c) private
sector involvement; (d) nstitutinalcapaity, (e) conservation and environmenal protection;
(f) process of forest policy planig and legislation; and (g) coordination of donor assistance
in the sector.
2.42     RGOB has agreed that the project would follow a sectoral approach which
would support in the project area all relevant elements of the Forestry Sector Programme
Framework, ie. DOFs functional programs (mostly institutional development); DOFs
operational programs (conservation and protection, sustainable multiple-use forest
management, and community forest management); and MOAMs supporting programs for the
RNR sector (strategic plag, policy and legislation, and monitoring and evaluation).
Wbile the project would be implemented in eastern Bhutan, its experience could be
generalized to other parts of the country. ITe projects strategic importance lies in its
objectives which are to assist RGOB in:
2.    The Forest Sector. A World Bank Policy Paper, 1991.



- 15-
(a) defining operational procedures and criteria and investment programs that will
help RGOB implement field level activities in the RNR Sector,
(b)  conserving scarce manpower and other resources by defining priority areas for
the most cost-effective interventions;
(c)  engaging various line agencies, i'e., MOA, DOF, Department of Animal
Husbandry (DAH), Department of Agriculture (DOA), and Ministry of Trade
and Industry (MTI), and local cmmunities in jointly planned development
activities and encouraging integration among RNR sector objectives; and
(d) conforming with the Banks Forest Policy3 directives which condition IDA
involvement on assistance in (i) adopting policies and an institutional
framework to ensure conservation and sustainable use of existing forests and to
promote more active participation of local people and the private sector;
(ii) adopting a comprehensive and environmentally sound forestry conservation
and development plan; (iii) undertakig social, economic and environmental
assessments of the forests being considered for commercial utilization;
(iv) setting aside adequate compensatory preservation forests to maintain
biodiversity while safeguarding the interests of forest dwellers, and specifically
their rights of access to designated forest areas; and (v) establisbinginstitutional
capacity to implement and enforce the above commitments.
3.    Ibid., 14



- 16-
III. THE PROJECr
A. Project Obctss and Sop
3.1      The broad objective of the project is to support RGOBs efforts to develop an
approach for sustainable protection, management and use of its forest resources in line with
its national development plans. The project would be fully consistent with the Governments
Forest Policy Statement, the RNR sector objectives and the Forestry Sector Progamme
Framework, as well as wit the evolving policy and legal framework as described in
paras 2.6-2.12. Against this background, the project aims at establishing, in eastern Bhutan,
the mechanisms for (a) sustainable forest management for selected government forest areas;
(b) involvement of local people in the rehabilitation of degraded forest areas and their
subsequent management; (c) integration of trees into farming systems thus improving the
viability of the k.-al economy-, (d) introduction of a criteria-based approach to afforestation
and reforestation; and (e) strengtheng of the government's capacity for effective and
efficient implementation of the above development programs.
3.2      The project would consist of four components:
(a) National Forest Manageent involving survey, inventory, planning and
management by DOF of selected Government Reserved Forests to ensure a
sustainable supply of forest products to meet the needs of the rural population,
urban centers and, residually, local forest industries;
(b)  ScJia Forestry involving the organization of rural communities to improve and
manage local forests related to their livelihood, and the introduction of fodder
and fuelwood trees on farm lands with a view to improve agricultural output and
incomes;
(c)  Afforestation/Reforestation involving rehabilitation of degraded forests on
government lands to increase forest cover, protect watersheds, combat soil
erosion and generally improve the productivity of these lands; and
(d) Jn=titution[Sal&regtbening including support for improved forest sector plannig
and policy development in the MOA, and for trning and for capacity-building
of DOF at the central and field leveL
B. PrQjectArea
3.3      The proposed project would support various program activities in the six districts
of Mongar, Lhuntshi, Tashigang, Tashiyangtse, Pemagatsel, and Samdrup Jongkbar, which
cover an area of about 11,530 km2 in eastern Bhutan. Like the rest of Bhutan, the area
extends from the high mountains of over 7,000 m in the north to the 200 m high foothills
in the south that overlook the north Indian plains. Most of the agcultural activities take



-17 -
place between 1,000 and 2,000 m elevation. Above 2,000 m, settlements are scattered ai.
cultivation takes place only in dispersed locations. High-elevation grazing lands in
Tashgng and Lbuntshi districts are used by a fairly smal population of transhumant yak
herds. The average population density of the area is about 35 persons per km2.
3.4       The project area is not readily accessible and can only be reached by vebicle
through steep terrain and it takes between two and three days to reacb Tasbigang District
from the capital at Thimphu. Landslides during the monsoon season and heavy snowfall
during the winter season can close the road for some time until cleared. Some 233,000
inhabitants, or about one third of Bhutan's total population, are located in the project area,
which is administered through District Administrators (dzongdags) located in each of the six
districts. Governmental forest activities are administered through three Forest Divisions of
the DOF, which are operated by a Divisional Forest Officer and his staff The three Forest
Divisions for the project area are located in Mongar, Tashigang and Samdrup Jonkhar.
Forest cover of the six districts accounts for about 725,000 ha, or about 63% of the total
land area of the region, which is somewhat higher than the estiriated national forest cover
of about 57%. Approximately 8% of the area is under permanent cultivation and another
6% is under shifting cultivation. Local ecological conditions vary greatly, and eleven
different vegetation zones have been identified in the area. The traditional farming systems
depend on close interactions between forests, crop lands, and livestock. Forests provide
fodder and leaf litter for animals, which generate compost essential for maintaining soil
fertility of agrcultural lands in addition to indirect benefits, such as moisture conservation
and erosion controL In this fragile mountain environment, traditional farming systems play
a crucial role in providing for the needs of the local population while ensuring proper
manag¢ement of land, water, and forest resources. In the more densely populated parts of
the project this fragile equilibrium has been disturbed by increased pressure from hIuman
and livestock populations on an inel7stic land resource base, thus leading to a degraded
forest cover, overgrazed pasture areas, decreased soil fertility of crop lands and reduced per
capita food production. In addition, problems of soil erosion and slope instability have
become apparent as a result of ovarexterided farming systems and of the expansion of the
road network.
C. Detailed   i.ecFeatures
National Forest Management (US$3.1 million)
3.5       The strategy for forest management witbin the project area will be based on the
following realities of the project area. Although forests cover about 1.2 mfllion ha within
the project area, most parts are economically and even physically inaccessible due to the
limitations of the existing road system and ruggedness of the terrain. A considerable portion
of the forests are located on very steep slopes and at the heads of critical watersheds. Local
demand for fuelwood, timber, fodder and minor forest products has to be met since it is
essential for the subsistence of the communities. In the absence of systematic management,
the provion of forest products is organized at the convenience of communities, which
causes over-utiliztion in areas near settlements. The spatial pattern of this demand is not
uniform. It is concentrated in towns and villages, as well as dispersed throughout the project



.18 -
area, because of the scattered distribution of settlements. There are both local herds, which
graze within the viciity of villages and farms, and migrating herds, which roam all over the
area The potential of the forests' resources is scanty higher than the regional demand
and thus could conti-bute to supplying other regions as well as export markets. While
expansion of regional economy through increased resource utilization is therefore possible,
the pre- ailing limitations on labor supply, entrepreneurial initiative and executing capacity
of the fiorest sector agencies must first be overcome to realize this growth potentiaL RGOB
has recently decided to decentalize admiistration and economic development to the
district level thus malkng it necessary to devise an effective means of decentralizing forest
management and admnistration.
3.6        At appraisal, four areas were selected as the most promising locations to
initiate national forest management and udlization in the project area. With a view to
epauding the concept of planned forest management to other parts of the project area, an
overall resource assessment would be carried out to lay the foundation for a regional
perspective forest development program based on the principles of the national forest sector
policy. Adequate data in the form of satellite -rageiy and forest type maps4 are available
for this purpose. Because of the large potential supply and the concentrated demand for
forest products as well as the limited physical access to forests, there is no urgency to bring
all forest resources under management plans in the short term. Iherefore, once the
regional perspective development plan has been completed, additional forest areas will be
selected for forest management units on the basis of their potential contion to the
national economy and of DOFs capacity for preparing and implementing management plans
for these units. No provision has been made under the project for such additional forest
magement units.
3.7      Four management Units have been identified, covering a total effective area of
about 21,500 ha, for which management plans will be prepared during the project period.
The selection of the sites for these management units was based on the following criteria:
(a) areas with low silvicultural and environmental risk; (b) areas that allow different tree
species to meet various needs; (c) areas that can be geographica}ly spread out; and (d) areas
that are easily accessible to avoid extensive forest road construction. These management
units will be scientifically managed on a sustamed yield basis. The project would also
support the establishment of DOF depots for distribution of wood to local users.
3.8      In keeping with the Forest Policy Statement which requires approved
management plans as a condition for commercial exploitation of the forest, the reserve
forests in the project area that have been proposed for national management will be the
object of a detailed inventory and the development of management plans under the project.
The management plans will take a holistic approach which, besides production of forest
products, would take into consideration delineation of protected forest areas, wildl;fe
conservation, maintenance of biodiversity, and the nature of social use. The plans wil focus
on catering to the needs of the local demand centers which may include towns, villages,
sawmills, etc. Practical measures to counteract inappropriate and inefficient use of forest
4.    Forest type maps were prepared as a part of the MPFD exercise.



- 19-
products, along wmth silvicultural practices that ensure natural regeneration, will be
developed as part of the plan. When natural regeneration of important species becomes
difficult, artificial regeneration will be adopted. In preparing the management plans,
pressures from gaig will be taken into account by introducmg rotational grazing and/or
pasture development with participation of local com ties, along with measures to ensure
adequate supervision and protection.
3.9       The implementation plan for this component is summarized in para 4.7. After
the plans are prepared, the Divisional Forestry Offices will be responsible for implementng
them. In principle, operations such as tree felLing, cable crane operation and timber
transport will be contracted to private entrepreneurs. However, since sufficient expertise
in cable crane operations is not yet available in the private sector, these operations will be
carried out by DOF under force account until adequate private sector expertise has
developed. Therefore, equipment for the above-mentioned activities will be procured from
IDA Credit proceeds. It will be sold to private sector operators when they will take on
contractual responsibility for logging operations. Divisional Forest Offices are responsible
for log disposal to DOF depots or sawmills. Primary and secondary processing including
sawmiing, timber seasoning and joinery and furniture manufacture will be left to the
private sector.  Under the Institutional Support Component, international technical
assistance will be provided to assist DOF with on-the-job trauning in the preparation of
management plans, development of operational plans for the extraction of forest resources
and organization of training programs for private entrepreneurs in primary and secondazy
processing, TA will also assist DOF in ensuring that conservation biology and non-wood
forest products aspects will be taken into account in the preparaton of the management
plans.
3.10     Meeting the dispersed demand for wood in eastern Bhutan does not create
significant damage to forest areas for which management plans will not be available until
later, since the needs of scattered households or small hamlets are limited vis-a-vis the large
standing vohlme and the regeneration capability of most of the forest stands. However,
certain guidelines to regulate forest use in these areas will be developed and enforced to
minimiw possible damage to the resource. Enforcement of these rules will be part of the
community forestry program and will be handled mainly by seeking a consensus with the
rural communities, individual farmers, and migrating herdsmen.
Socia Eores  (US$1.3 million)
3.11     The Social Forestry Component is complementary to the National Forest
Management Component in that it aims at increasing productivity of the forest resources
used by local people both in the Government's reserve forest and on farm lands. The
objective of Bhutan 's social forestry program is not to reduce the level of consumption of
forest products, at least in the short run, but to regulate it and to locally enhance forest
productivity in order to contribute to a sustainable resource utilizatin. It also aims to
increase farm income (not necessarily cash income) by integrating tree growing into exasting
faming systems. Most rural communities are located inside forest areas. In a country with
severe ommunication difficulties, it would be irrational to rely solely on a government-
controlled system to administer the people 's traditional rights to forest products and to



-,20
ensure sustainable forest mgement. Social forestry involves the local people in the
process of forest resource management through a system of sharing benefits and
responsibilities. Two approaches wull be pursued under this component: (a) village forest
management on forest lands that villagers have traditionally depended on for their farming
systems, and (b) agroforestry on private la     The selection of sites for social forestry
activities is based on well-defined criteria such as degree of independence of local
economies on forests and forest products; value of protecting existing forests both in terms
of tangible and intangible benefits and readiness of people to take responsibilitr; extent of
forest degradation, proximity  to  the  proposed  forest management units  or
afforestation/reforestation sites; and willingness and ability of the local people to take
control of their natural resources. To ensure an optimal environment for local participation,
the social forestry program will =t be target driven, but based on the response to
promotion camwgns in areas of greatest potentiaL The modalities of the social forestry
program, as it would be supported under project, are in the Government's revised
Community Forestry Rules (para 2.33).
3.12      Villae Forest Managment. Its potential lies where a large proportion of the
population is still dependent on a subsistence economy which relies heavily on open-access
natural resources and where pressures of human and livestock population on the forest are
most severe. Under the village forest management approach, villagers will be given
responsibility for management of selected forest areas under the technical guidance and
supervision of DOF. This approach requires fundamental changes in government policies
for allocating and managing forest resources and distnbution of benefits. It also requires
a change in the attitude of government agencies and their staff who have been indoctrinated
in the notion that they alone are the custodian of the nation's forest resources. Rural
communities who have traditionally had access to neighborng forests at their convenience
need to accept new responsibilities and adopt appropriate utilization systems. As a part of
forest resource assessment and the formulation of the perspective resource management
plans (para 3.6), forest areas under severe pressure from the activitues of nearby
communities will be identified and promotion of social forestry activities will be
concentrated in these locations. During appraisal a number of areas were identified where
both the physical and social conditions are favorable for introducing village forest
management. These areas will serve as stardng points for activities under this project
component. However, the systematic forest resource assessment to be undertaken as part
of the project will lead to the identification of additional areas and thus expand the scope
for social forestry activities. Project activities in village forest management would include:
workshops and training programs for forestry officials and for villagers to create awareness
and knowledge of village forest management; provision for contract facilitators to assess
local interest in taldng on forest management, and to assist in orgnizin vilage institutions
for community forestry, development and implementation of village forest management
plans; development of systems for sharing forest produce amongst the beneficiaries; and
preparation and distnbution of forest extension materials.
3.13      Vilage forest management requires organization of villagers as a prerequisite
for the formal transfer of responsibility for, and control of, forest management and
utilizaon, with an emphasis on equitable distribution of benefits among villagers. Ths does
not imply that villagers will have open and uncontrolled rights to the forests assigned to



- 21 -
them. Village forest management will be based on a consensus achieved following thorough
deliberation between DOF staff and the villagers on how the forest should be managed, and
on adoption of tightly defined procedures including sanctions for non-compliance. Before
the forest areas are handed over to the villagers, DOF staff and the villagers will together
develop a management plan that is simple and appropriate for the needs of the village and
that will help increase productivity of the forest. The steps involved and approximate time
involved in village forest management planning are described in a bar chart under Annex
2. As an incentive for community participation, seedlings, ,encing materials, pasture seeds
and other necessary inputs will be supplied free of cost by DOF but these subsidies will be
gradually phased out (para 2.35). As communities become involved and demonstrate a
capability for managing their forests and adhering to the agreed rules, DOF ' s role will shift
from protection and control to forest extension and management activities. Since all this
involves a high degree of trust between the villagers and DOF staff, the project provides a
strong emphasis on improving the extension, communication and technical skills of forest
officers. The expatriate social forestry and tainin and extension specialists will provide
support to DOF's Divisional Forest Offices in implementing the social forestry activities,
traing forestry personnel, developing forest extension materials, and supervisng research
activities in social forestry which will be under the direction of the Taba Forestry Institute.
It has been agreed that one of the research topics would be the transfer of a few productive
forest blocks to village people for full commercial management. Similarly, workshops and
study tours are planned for farmers to introduce them to the concept of village forest
management and make them aware of their responsibiities and rights. The Village Forest
Management Subcomponent can only operate successfully if villagers can share in the
proceeds from timber sales. It is expected that under the new Forest and Nature
Conservation Act, villagers will be permitted to benefit from sale of timber from forests
under their control.
3.14     AgWfget activities to be undertaken under the project include: establishment
of nurseries (managed by individual farmers, Village Development Committees and/or
schools, monasteries, and Blocks) for production of seedlings; establishment of
demonstration nurseries and demonstration planting areas; and preparation and distribution
by DOF of extension packages for farm forestry.
3.15     For the Agroforestry Subcomponent, the techniques and the species mix are
relatively well known and it is mainly a matter of encouraging private initiative and
educating farmers about the opportunities of increasing their on-farm productivity.
Agroforestry practices incorporating alley cropping, fodder trees, live fences, contour strips,
and small fuelwood lots will be initiated on private land and in shiffting cultivation areas.
Improvement of soghing land (privately registered forest land for producing leaf litter and
fodder) would also be a part of the agroforestry program. It would also place emphasis on
soil conservation practices. To avoid duplication of work and to reduce cost, the project
proposes to promote agroforestry as an integral package along with the existing extension
programs of the Departments of Animal Husbandry and Agriculture. Farmers will also be
encouraged to set up private nurseries for wbich the seeds and polybags wil be supplied by
DOF nitially. Costs for seed and materials provided for nursery establishment will be
recovered from sales proceeds. To ensure a market for privately-produced seedlings, the
project wfll purchase an agreed number of seedlings from private producers in the initial



-22 -
years. In the event the mnrseries suffer damage beyond the control of the farmer and if
confirmed by the forestry staff% the project would compensate for the labor and material
inputs. It is expected that private farmer-managed nurseries will produce planting material
for a variety of needs such as fuielwood, fodder, timber, and live fencing based on local
demand from farmers and village forest ma.6ement program Assistance to farmers in
nursery techniques and agroforestry practices would be extended through forestry extension
agents, selected from DOF staff.
3.16     Agroforestry wil be given priority over vilage forest management in the initial
years as private participation is expected to be easier to achieve since the returns from such
operations are more readily apparent. Village forest management, on the other hand, is
more complex and dependent on community involvement and decision-making which often
proceeds slowly. Therefore, it would be prudent to launch this program only after the
necessary forestry staff are trained in the required skills.
AfforestationLRefQresalioa (US$03 million)
3.17     Under this component, afforestation/reforestation (A/R) will be considered m
areas that meet well-defined objectives and criteria. Typically, this might include
environmentally critical areas where natural vegetation has failed, and which are potentially
productive and accessible. Location, type of forest establishment and species to be used will
be decided as part of the perspective resource management plans (paras 3.6 and 3.12). At
appraisal, about 1,900 ha of such areas have been tentatively identified for A/R durng the
project period. Besides generating direct economic benefits, the implementation of this
program would also offer an opporamity to develop in a real life setting appropriate
technologies for seed source selection, seed collection, storage and testing, advanced nursery
operations, site selection, site and species matching, planting and tending, grazing
managBement and fire control. A/R activities will also be an integral part of social forestry
activities. The technology used in these treatment models will be refined based on
experience gained during implementation. The ecological and social aspects of a given site-
such as soil fertility, weed growth, sheet erosion, absence of seed trees, cattle grazing and
annual burning-will be taken into consideration in developing plantation design. Tbe
seedlings for artificial regeneration will be developed in government nurseries in the initial
years, but once private museries are established, DOF will procure its seeding requirements
from them. The methodology to be developed for terrain evaluation under the Forest
Management Component will be used for the A/R Component as welL Duringmegoanlm
it was agreed that (a) the A/R program for each fiscal year of the project would be agreed
with IDA  not later than Juy 31 of the preceding year. and (b) that this component will be
carried out so as to satisfy one or more of the criteria descrbed above.
Institutional Strengtening (US$2.8 milion)
3.18     The project envisages the following support measures to build up institutional
capacity in the forest sector:
(a) strengthening of MOA/PPD and central DOF in regard to their respective roles
under the project;



-23-
(b)  establishment of a Project Facilitation Office (PFO) at Khangma to offer project
management services within the project area;
(c) strengthening of the existing divisional forest offices at Mongar and Samdrup
Jongkhar,
(d)  establishment of new divisional forest offices at Tashigang and Pemagatsel;
(e) provision of facilities and equipment for (a) - (d) above; and
(f) technical assistance including training of forestry staff and project beneficiaries.
3.19     Forestry Sector Planning and Policy Formulati  The project would strengthen
the planning and policy analysis capability of MOA s Planning and Policy Division (PPD)
through the hiring of an additional forest economist and through technical assistance. This
would enable PPD to better monitor the implementation of forestry programs, to update
and refine the medium-term planning framework for the forestry sector, and to undertake
policy studies such as follow-up work on wood pricig and marketing. The project would
also assist PPD with training abroad, wth some office equipment and with funds to orgamze
two donor coordination meetings to review progress of forestry development programs.
3.20     Dspartment of Forestry - Central LeveL The project would support DOF at the
central level through incremental staff, short-term foreign and in-country training, and
procurement of technical equipment, office facilities and vehicles. In particular, the Forest
Resources Management Division (F"MD) would be strengthened with incremental staff and
equipment to increase its capacity for preparing forest management plans in the project
area and for providing in-service training to selected DOF personnel involved in forestry
operations in eastern Bhutan. During the first two years, national forest management plans
in eastern Bhutan would be prepared by joint teams of central and regional DOF staff, but
under the overall responsibility of FRMD.
3.21      Department of Forestry - Eastern Divisions. The project would finance office
construction, equipment and vebicies, salarie. and operating expenses for incremental staff,
and other facilities required for project implementation with a view to strengthen DOF s
territorial divisions in the project area in their capability to carny out the project
3.22     Infrastructural development would include constmction of the Project
Facilitation Office (PFO), a hostel for visiting staff and experts, new divisional offices, range
and beat offices and staff quarters. The project wiU also finance the cost of equipment,
computers, furniture and other facilities required for effective program implementation. It
is envisaged that the PFO will be fully operational within six months of the start of the
project The regional forest management plaing celL with initial support from a forest
management planning expert, will assume full responsibiity for the preparation of new
management plans by the third year of the project Strengthening of the two existing
territorial forest divisions will start immediately. The creation of a new divion in
Tashigang will commence in project year 2 (PY2) and in Pemagatsel in PY3. A



-,24 -
negotiations RGOB submitted a tie,b,oind staffing plan for project implementation, and
indicateh tat the incremental positions shown in the plan bave been, vapoed (Annex 3).
that the individuals to fill these positions have beenidentified and thbat thieyIe  X post.ed
in agrdance with the tming indicated in the plan.
3.23     Te3bnical Assistane CM n  in    The project would provide tehnical
support for strengthening (a) MOA/PPD in forestry sector planning and strategy and in
policy formulation; (b) DOF at the central level; and (c) the PFO in the project area in
undertaking forest resource assessments, and preparing forest management plans and social
forestry modules, developing operational plans for harvesting forest resources, conducting
training and extension activities and research, establishing technical guidelines, planning
program development, and monitoring and environmental analysis of project activities
(Annex 4). In the first three years of the project, the pioject will provide technical
assistance totalling 110 months of internatonal specialists. Thle TA will be provided by an
inenationally recruited firm or entity on terms satisfactory to IDA using the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. An additional 60 staff months of TA are available
for PY4 through PY7, to be allocated in line with the findings of the mid-term project
review. RGOB agred at negotiations that based on the outcome of the project Is mid-term
review. adequate TA provisions would be madde for the remainder of the project
EnuAnmentaMects
3.24     The project provides for continuous environmental monitoring throughout its
implementation bby Bhutan 's National Environment Commisson (NEC). This will help to
assure that the National Forest Managemen  Social Forestry and Afforesta-
tion/Reforestation components take into consideration appropriate measures to protect the
environment and ensure sustainable resource management. At negoation RGQB aged
on (a) the scope and modalities of annual monitoring of the environmental ase  of the
project. and (b) that NEC would annually monitor the environmental apects of the project
in accordance with a memorandum of understanding. to be entered into by NEC and MOA
no later than December 31, 1993. and which reflects the scope and modalities for such
monitoring sadsfactory to IDA, Under the National Forest Management Component, a
regional forest cover assessment will be undertaken with the objective of idenfyig areas
where priority should be given in terms of watershed protection and biological conservation.
TA in the form of a Conservation Biologist, Forest Resource Assessment Expert and a Non-
wood Forest Products Expert will be ptovided to assist and train local staff in these fields.
The project will also adopt geomorphological techniques of terrain evaluation in terms of
susceptibility to processes of landslides and soil erosion. This will not only help in assessng
alipment options for forest access roads but also the relative impact of forest actvities on
the landscape. The project would see to the intimate involvement of the local commuiies
and especially of women in the protection and responsible management of the forest
environment.



-25-
D. Prjct Costs and Einancing
3.25     kge Coski  Total project cost including physical and price conigencies is
estimated at Nu 250 million (US$8.9 million) of wbich US$52 milion would be in foreign
exchange. Project costs are expressed in May 1992 prices absent of duties and taxes which
are nonexstent for Bhutan. Base costs were derived from recent costs in Bhutan for
facilities constructon; procurement of equipment and transport; local and foreigl training
programs; and TA. Project cost is summarized in Table 3.1, while Annex 1, Tables 1
through 9 present the information in more detail
Table 3.1: Prolect Cost Estimates
Nu million----   ---US$ million----- z Foreign
Local Forein Total  Local Erein Total Ecbange
A. National Forest NKet.  30.6   57.0  87.6   1.1   2.0   3.1   65.1
B. Social Forestry
1. Agroforestry         4.9   13.2  18.1   0.2   0.5   0.7   72.7
2. Village Forest Mgmt.  .Q   10       ..J           0.3   0.6   58.9
Subtotal          11.9   23.2  35.2   0.5   0.8   1.3   66.0
C. Affor./Reforestation    9.7    0.5  10.2   0.3   0.0   0.3    5.1
D. Institutional
Strengthening        28.0   49.0  77.0   1.0   1.8   2.8   63.7
Base Cost             80.2  129.8  210.0   2.9   4.6    7.5   61.8
Physical Contingencies  3.8    3.6   7.4   0.1   0.1   0.2   48.7
Price Contingencies    19.2    2.9  32.1   0.Z   LI    1.    i0.1
Total Project Cost      .10      162.0 265.2            5.            58.6
3.26     Physical contingencies of 7% have been allowed for civil works, 8.4% for
equipment and materials, and 109% for plantation works. Price contingencies are based on
projected annual inflation in Bhutan for local costs of 9% in 1993, 7% in 1994, and 5.5%
for the rening project years; and for foreign costs of 3.9% throughout the project period.
327      fluandn   The proposed financing plan is shown in Table 32. Of the total
external financing of US$8.1 million for the project (91% of total project costs), an IDA
Credit of US$5.4 million would finance 61% of project cost and be made available to
RGOB on standard IDA terms and conditions with 40 years maturty. The Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC) will cofinance, on a parallel basis, US$2.7 million of
project cost (30% of total project costs) in the form of a grant which fully covers the
projectes TA and training costs. Siging and fulfillment of all conditions precedent to



-26 -
effectiveness of tbe cofinancing agreement IMtween MC anld RGOB wiLI be a condition gf
Credit effectivenss
Table 3.2: Proiect Financing Plan (USe million)
Categorv                RGOB         DA                   Total
Civil Works               -          0.9         -         0.9
Equipment & Materials     -          1.2         -         1.2
Vehicles                  -          0.9          -         0.9
Plantation Work           -          0.7         -         0.7
Training                  -           -         0.9         0.9
Technical Assistance      -           -         1.8         1.8
Increm. Recurrent Costs  LA          1A          -         2A
T-otal                                    IAZ 54*7L;2
a. Total does not add due to rounding.
E hoeurement
328       Procurement arranements for items financed by IDA as well as by SDC would
be in accordance with IDA's guidelines. These arrangements are summarid in Table 3.3.



-27 -
Table 3.3: Procurement Profile
(US$ million)
Procurement Procedure
Prolect Compent                1CB    Other    lb       Total Cos
Civil Works                    0.8      0.1      -           0.9
(0.8)   (0.1)                 (0.9)
Equipment and Materials                 1.2      -           1.2
(1.2)                (1.2)
Vehicles                                0.9       -          0.9
-      (0.9)                 (0.9)
Plantation Work                         0.7      -           0.7
(0.7)                (0.7)
Training                       --               °9*          0.99
Technical Assistance           -                1.8'         1.86
Increm. Recurrent Costs        -       1.6      0.8b         2.4
TOTAL              08       4         3*5         a9
(0.8)   (4.5)      (-)         (5.4)
a. - Financed by SDC
b. - Financed by RGOB
c. - Total does not add due to rounding.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
3.29     Civil works (US$0.9 million). TMis consists of office bidings and housing
located m different part of eastern Bhutan and dispersed over the project perod and would
not attract foreigp bidders. Besides, all buiding construction in Bhutan has to adhere to
traditional local design standards using wood and other local materials. Hence, civil works
in the amount of US$0.8 million equivalent will be procured under lOcal competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures. To the extent possible, contracts will be grouped in suitably sized
packages to encourage competition. All minor civil works in remote areas valued at
US$10,000 equivalent or less, and totaing about US$0.1 million, are expected to be carried
out under force account.
3.30     Gogds. Approxmately US$0.9 million worth of vehicles and US$1.2 millon of
equipment and materials wil be required for the project. However, they consist of 24
different items, in small quantities, which are needed at various times during the seven-year
project implementation period. Even though they have been packaged as much as practical
none of the packages would exceed US$100,000. Moreover, because the project is located



- 28 -
in a very remote area of a smal landlocked country, stdization of equipment is of
paramount importance5. Therefore, prudent shopping or direct procurement are considered
to be the appropriate methods of goods procurement.
331      Plantation W2oQr (US$0.7 million). As part of the Afforestation/Reforestation
Component, plantations would be carried in small areas and scattered all over eastem
Bhutan throughout the project period. Therefore, plantation work will not be suitable for
competitive bidding but will be caried out by force account by DOF. The project
emphasizes local participation, and wherever possible wfll encourage local communities to
contribute free labor. Otherwise, plantation work will be done by hired labor drawn from
local commnities under the supervision of DOF. This is expected to improve the income
levels of the local people and to encourage local participation in forestry activities.
3.32     Technical Assistance (US$1.8 million). This mostly involves services of foreign
specialists and will be contracted to a firm or entity on terms and conditions in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. The balance of project cost would
consist of imdnng (US$0.9 million) and incremental staff salaries ad operating eM-enses
(US$2.4 million equivalent) which, except for staff salaries, wil be procured under standard
government procurement procedures.
3.33     All procurement would be undertaken under procedures acceptable to IMA.
Bidding packages estimated to cost over US$50,000 for civil works and US$75,000 for goods
and equipment and consultant contracts will be subject to the normal IDA prior x . iew.
This review is estumated to cover approximately ten contracts including the consultants
contracts and about 50. percent of the works and goods by value. Other contracts wil be
subject to selective post review. All bidding documents, evaluation reports and related
procurement documents would be retained by the implemening units for possible inspection
during IDA review missions.
F. pisbursements
3.34     The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed agamst:
(a)  95% of expenditures on civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported vehicles, equipment, and
materials; 100% of local costs (ex-factory); and 85% of local costs of other items
procured locally,
(c)  95% of expenditures on plantation works; and
(d) 62% of expenditures on incremenWal staff slaries and other incremental
operating costs.
5.    This takes into account lessons learnt from the Second Forestry Development
Project (Credit 1900-BHU).



-29 -
Since the project's development objectives cannot be achieved within the Credit
disbursement period, disbursement aginst incremental salaries and operating costs would
not be on a declining basis. The proceeds of the SDC grant, wbicb is administered by IDA
in accordance with a Letter of Understanding between SDC and IDA, would be disbursed
against 100% of expenditures on TA and training.
3.35     The project is expected to be completed in seven years and the Credit proceeds
disbursed over seven and one-half years (Annex 5). Disbursement against civil works,
vehicles, equipments, training and other services exceeding US$100,000 equivalent will be
made on receipt by the Bank of fully documented withdrawal applications. All other
disbursements, including those for force account works, will be made against certified
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). In order to facilitate disbursements, two special accounts
will be established with the Bank of Bhutan in Bhutanese Ngultrums, one to cover the
categories funded by IDA in the amount of US$100,000 equivalent, and another to cover
the categories funded by SDC in the amount of Swiss frcs 150,000 equivalent.
G. Financial Management Accont and Audits
3.36       The project would be adequately staffed with trained accounting personnel who
would maintain, in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards and practices,
appropriate accounting systems and financial records, to record all transactions relating to
the project (including the transactions on the Special Accounts) and to enable the PFO to:
(i) ensure compliance with all RGOB I s accounting and financial policies and procedures
for the Forestry Management Units and Divisional Forestry  Offices responsible for
implementing parts of the project; (ii) prepare anmual budgets and forecasts of project
activities; and (iii) regularly monitor and report on the financial progress of the project.
Details of all project income and ependiture transactions would be submitted monthly by
the FMUs and DFOs implemenig the project to the PFO which would consolidate these
together with its own transons into project financial statements to be forwarded to MOA
by the 20th of the following month. MOA would forward the mont  consolidated financial
results of all its operations to MOF within 45 days of the end of each month. A senior
accounts officer, with experence in IDA project accounting and audit requirements, and
disbursement guidelines and procedures, has been appointed to the Project Facilitation
Office.
3.37     RGOB ' s audit requirements are the responsibility of the Royal Audit Authority
which is considered a qualified and independent auditor for IDA purposes. The audits
pertaiing to the project should include the audit certification of: (a) annual project accounts
which should take the form of statements of cash receipts and expenditures related
specifically to the project, for the most current year and on a cumulative basis; (b) SOEs,
to verify that claimed expenditures under the Credit were properly supported, and to
confirm IDA's reliance upon SOEs as a basis for disbursing Credit proceeds; and (c) a
statement to establish that the year-end balance of the Special Account is proper, and that
fnds were properly disbursed for project-related expenditures throughout the period.



-30-
IV. PROJCI [MZLEMENTTXAIf
A. Project Organization and Management
hnplementing Responsibilily
4.1        The project will be executed by MOA as an integral part of its Renewable
Natural Resources Program In the project area, executive responsibility will lie with the
head of MOAXs Project Facilitation Office (PFO) located in Khangma (Tashigang District).
The Department of Forestry (DOF) is the main agency responsible for implementing the
project through its Divisional Forest Officers in the project area and with support from its
central offices in Thimphu. Through its Planning and Policy Division (PPD), MOA will
coordinate, monitor and evaluate overall project implementation.
Coentral Level Organization
4.2        DOF through its Forest Resources Management, Social Forestry and
Afforestation Divisions will formulate annual programs, in collaboration with the Divisional
Forest Offices in the project area, and provide technical and administrative back-stopping
as weRl as services of their centrally established facilities (e.g, data collection and processing,
mapping). The Forest Resources Management Division will be responsible for preparing
forest maps, processing remote sensing and ground data, designing and implementing
resource inventories, and preparing forest management plans. It will also train field-level
staff in operationalizng the management plans. Similarly, the Social Forestry Division will
design socioeconomic surveys and carry out data processing and analyses. This division,
however, will collaborate closely with the Diional Forest Offices and the Distict
Administrations in priorifizing development areas and designing development alternatives
for the project's social forestry activities.
Field 9rgaxnkaton
43       Project Facilitation Office. The head of the Project Facilitation Office will,
under the general guidance of the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, act as the Project
Manager for this project as well as for the IFAD-supported First Eastern Zone Agricultural
Development Project. In regard to the implementation of the proposed forestry project, he
will act on behalf of the Director General of Forestry. He will be assisted by a senior
forestry officer who will % the Assistant Project Facilitation Officer. The PFO will be
responsible for approving a1 d monitoring all project implementation activities which involve
the eastern Bhutan districts. The PFO will also be responsible for institutionalstrengthening
of the Divisional Forest Offices within the project area with the assistance of project
consultants in forest management, forest engineering, agroforestry, extension and training.
After the establishment of the regional Forest Management Division in the PFO as of



-31 -
January 1994, it will also be responsible for the preparation and implementation of the
forest management plans and for monitoring performance of these activities. At
negodtations. RGOB confarmed the responsibilites of the PFO in respect to the project.
which are acceptable to 19A
4.4      The Ministry of Finance will release funds direct to the PFO which will then be
disbursed to the Divisional Forest Offices for implementation of forest actvities in the
dzonkhapS (districts). In turn, the Divisional Forest Offices will su'bmit accounts to the PFO
Office for compilation and for subsequent submission to the Mnistty of Agriculture (MOA).
MOA will check the accounts for authenticity and submit the documents to the Ministry of
Finance along with withdrawal applications for reimbursement from IDA.
4.5      In view of the geographical dispersion and relatively sparse coverage of field
extension offices of the various RNR line agencies, it has been agreed to formulate
integrated forestry, animal husbandry, and agricultural extension messages and to use staff
and facilities of each of these agencies to help maximize extension oritreadh Field staff will
be provided with short refresher courses in other disciplines outside their normal
special7ation to equip them for promotng integrated famin systems-based extension
activities in the field.
4.6      Divisional Forest Offices. The Divsional Forest Officers (DFOs) will be
responsible for implemenng all project activities within their command areas. However,
they will receive support from the central divisions of DOF to undertake specialized
operations such as forest inventories, preparation and revision of forest management plans
and multi-year operational plans, environmental and socioeconomic surveys, and organizing
and implemenng tramining programs.
Forest Management Plans
4.7       During the project, it is envisaged that four forest n.anagement plans will be
prepared. In the first three years, DOF's Forest Resources Management Division ("RMD)
in Thimphu will play a dominant role in preparing the plans for eastern Bhutan. During the
first year of the project, a forest maagement cell will be established in the PFO which by
the end of third year will develop into a full-fledged regional management divis   Plans
for the Kori La and Khaling/Wamrong forest management units would be prepared by the
Forest Management Division in Thimphu and passed on to the PFO and the respective
DFOs for implementation. A Forest Engineering Specialist, along with the DFO and the
Forest Management Planning Specialist, will provide the technical assistance in developing
operational plans to utilize the forest resources. The plan for the ingmethang unit would
be a joint effort with map interpretation, emnmeration design, and data processing being the
responsibility of the Forest Management Division at Thimphu and actual enumeration left
to the Mongar Division with support and supervision of the PFO. The crew leader would
be provided by the central DOF and the other members would be deputed from the Mongar
Division. The Lingmethang plan would be written by the Forest Management Planing
Specialist in close collaboration with the Forest Management Division in Tbimphu. The
Bangthar plan in the Samdrup Jonkhar Division would be completed last. Implementaton
of management plans will rest with the respective DFOs.



- 32 -
tension and Traing
4.8       Training and exeion will be key elements in the successful iplementation
of the project. Staff training, both formal and informal, will be conducted by the technical
assistance personnel. Countepart training will be carried out on a continuous basis. In
addition, a small number of staff will be selected for overseas training of various duration,
and study tours will be organized for farmers to observe social forestry programs in
neighboring countries. In regard to extension, six existing forestry staff will be selected as
extension agents for PY 1-3 and an additional six agents will be recruited for this task in PY
4-6. These agents wvIl carry out extension work for agroforestry and village forest
management with due regard for the linkage with aimal husbandry and agricultural
extension and vill be provided substantial training to orient them to the concept of social
forestry in the context of an integrated farming systems approach. In addition to short-term
courses and study tours, the extension agents will receive on-the-job training from the
Agroforestry Specialist and the Extension and Training Specialist. Also, facilitators
(recrited from among retired RGOB officials and residents of the project area with suitable
education and skills) wiU be contracted to assist forestry extension agents with organizing
village forest users in preparation for village forest management activities. Extension agents
wil work in close coordination with the DAH and DOA staff to ensure integration with
other RNR sector activities in the context of the local farming systems. To increase
awareness of social forestry among al Government offcials, and to maximize integration
wvith other sector programs, workshops wiU be conducted at the PFO, dngWkhl, gewog and
village level.
Research
4.9       Forestry research, especially adaptive and applied research for forest
management, A/F and social forestry programs will be required. A series of field trals and
demonstration programs for research on silviculture, ecology, fire protection, species trial,
weed control, knowledge gps on social forestry, including the forest needs of the local
people, will be undertaken under the direction of MOAMs Forestry Research Institute in line
with RGOB's existing research program for the RNR sector, which is satisfactory. Research
work associated with the project will always be closely linked to extension and will promote
a feedback process among farmers, extension agents and researchers to develop productivity-
increasing technologies that are sustanable and acceptable to the local people. A Forestry
Research Expert would review the ongoing research work and provide guidance for
designing future activities as well as training of counterparts.
Technical Assistance
4.10      The nature of the project and the lack of sufficient numbers of qualified
personnel within the country necessitate employment of a number of short- and long-term
international consultants in various fields of spedalization. Because of the logistical
problems associated with working in a remote area and the complex schedule of
consultancies linked in time with the implementation plans of project components, a
consulting firm or entity with proven experience in broad forest sector development and
project management will be contracted to provide the TA services. Overall responsibility



- 33 -
for establishing the TA function and initii magement of the consultant input will be given
to an administrative facilitator fielded by the consulting fim.
B. Project   mmanc Rri
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11     Project monitoring and evaluation will be the responsibility of MOA/PPD. A
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist will assist MOA in developing the detailed system and
format to track project progress in a manner that will facilitate management of the project.
Annex 7 provides the key performance indicators which will form the basis for the project
monitoring systen. It should be noted that, except for the National Forest Management
Component, performance indicators are mostly qualitative in view of the lack of specific
quantitative targets for these components.   Annual monitoring of the projects
environmental impact will be undertaken by Bhutan's National Enviroment Commission
in accordance with guidelines agreed with IDA (para 3.24).
Mid-Term Review
4.12     IDA and SDC will undertake field reviews of project progress at least once every
six months. In addition, Government and the key donors in the forestry sector will meet
once in two years to assess the project's contribution to the achievement of the forest sector
program goals. New information, changed circumstances, and experiences in the first years
of the project may necessitate design adjustments in some of the project components during
the latter half of the project implementation period, particularly in the traning and TA
needs for PY4-7. A consultancy will be funded under the project to prepare a working
document to facilitate a mid-term review of the project. At negotiations. it was agred that
a compeensive nmid-tenrneview willbe undertaken byXMOA IDAand SDC, and arnwged
by IDA. toward the end of the third year of the prQject
Forest Sector Donor Coordination Meetings
4.13     In addition to the above, RGOB will organize once in two years a meeting with
forestry sector donors to assess the project's contribution to the achievement of the goals
outlined in the Forestry Sector Programme Framework At negotiations. RGOB agreed to
convening such meetings. with the ftrst meeting to take place in 1995.



-34-
V. ERODICIIQMRK=  ENEFMTE
A 1n,mnlaLwS
5.1       The largest single source of increase in production comes from the four national
forest management units. The maturity of the forests-with a combined total area of 23,000
ha., an aggregate gross standing volume of 4.8 million n3 of timber, and an annual allowable
cut (AAC) of some 61,000 e -enable the project to get off to a quick start.
Table 5.1: Exgected Timber Yield From National Forest Nanagement Units
Suggested        Expected Annual
tnitamea              AC UmL3)       Sawlog Yield (e)
Bangthar             26, 600                6,900
Wamrong*              6, 140                1,350
Khaling*             9, 780                 2,150
Yongphula*            5, 550                1,200
Korila East           4, 870                1,050
N. Lingmethang**      4, 410                1,250
S  Lingmethang**     4. 090                 1.050
Total                61, 440               14,950
M Managed as a single management unit under the name Khaling
** Managed as a single management unit
5.2       Wood production from the National Forest M ment Component starts with
about 3,395 mi3 of logs and 89 mn3 of f&elwood in PY2, and quicky reaches 7,500 e3 of logs
and 1,128 m3 of fuelwood in PY7. In PYIO the aggregate increase of logs and fuelwood
reaches about 10,000 m3 and 6,000 ni3, respectively, and continues to rise until it stabilizes
at about 19,000 m3 and 22,000 i3, as shown below.
Table 5.2: Incremental Production of National Forest Nanagement Units
Grazing/   Lemon-
Fuelvood Timber    Fodder      grass
Year         lm3)     (m3)    (ton)       (ton)
1              0     1,061        0          0
5             760    7,305      -177        -8
10           6,004     9,939     -177       -11
15           6,867    10,849     -177       -13
20          12,416    13,540     -177       -16
25          13,781    14,176     -177       -18
30          21,031    16,846     -177       -21
35          21,737    17,694     -177       -23
40          22,408    19,323     -177       -26



-35 -
53        The Afforestation/Reforestation (A/R) Component is based on a 40-year
rotation. It would begin to produce a incremental volume of 650 m3 of logs in PY20, wbich
would increase to 3,100 m3 in PY25. Incremental fuelwood production would start by PY10
with 438 mi3, reach about 3,200 m3 per annum in PY20, and increase thereafter.
Table 5.3:  Incremental Production from Afforestatio eforestation
Grazing/
Fuelvood     Timber    Fodder     Poles
e(M3)       (mS)    (ton)       (Q000)
1               -65         0       -53        -0
5              -348         0      -831        -2
10              438       -325       131        -3
15             2,561      -750       451        -2
20             3,171       650       555         5
25             7,255     3,100       555        27
30            4,764        750       545         4
35            9,666      6,010       338        14
40             4,764     3,000       300         1
45            10,648    24,040       124         3
5.4       The Social Forestry Component is expected to produce only incremental
quantities of firewood and fodder during the first 20 years, with incremental timber
production stardng thereafter. Incremental forage and fodder production would amount to
about 3,200 tons by PY7 and would rise to 7,700 tons in PY10. No incremental fuelwood
production is expected until PY11 with a small incremental uantity of 723  m3, increasing
to 4,000 mn3 in PY15 and reaching a peak of nearly 20,000 m in PY35.
Table 5.4: Incremental Production from Social Forestry Component
Fuelwood      Timber    Forage      Milk       Calves     Cows
Yxar        Wm.)          (mJ,     (ton)     ('000 1)      (No.?    (No.)
1            -70          0          -9          0          0         0
5         -3,588          0         867        430        182       424
10         -2,081          0       7,753      5,151       -102      -320
15          4,089          0       8,218      5,542        114        34
20          4,097          0       8,104      6,604        450       144
25         10,876     18,000       8,178      7,004        594       656
30          8,906          0       8,234      7,562        980       726
35         19,635     12,000       8,654      7,380        814       584
40         11,011          0       8,867      7,711        852       878
45          7,336    144,384       5,616      5,033        272       144
46          3,727    144,384       2,810      2,640        144       260



-36 -
B. Demand and Markets
Demand for Wood
5.5      Studies carried out under the MPFD indicated that the annual allowable cut
from the natural forests of Bhutan is about 1.2 million m3 (excluding fuelwood), which is
about 4-5 times the current national consumption of about 200,000 in3. Actual extraction
is about 270,000 m3/year and the surplus timber is exported to India. Sales to India are
conducted through auctions. India, as a wood-deficit country, constitutes a huge market for
Bhutan's forest products. However, RGOB regulates the quantity and quality of timber
offered for export in order to provide adequate wood to the domestic market.
5.6      There are no significant wood imbalances at the regional and sub-regional levels.
Most of the population (about 96%) are in the rura sector and they satisfy their demand
for forest products by direct access to the nearby forest areas and carrying out felling and
extraction operations themselves. The main supply of wood for urban markets comes from
the operations of the Bhutan Logging Corporation in western Bhutan and, to a lesser extent,
from DOF operations in the Bumthang area of central Bhutan. However, forest industries,
espeally those established to cater to export markets, are facing chronic raw material
shortages due to the system of government price control and wood allocation and the low
level of organized forest utilization. Exceptions are the plywood and the particle board
industries in Gedu and the calcium carbide industry at Phuntsholing which obtain their raw
material from forest concessions allocated to them by RGOB. Sawmills, most of which are
privately owned, rely on government allocations and practically all operate significantly
below their rated capacities.
5.7      Annual fuelwood consumption is estimated at 1.4 million i3. Only about 10-
15i% of the fuelwood is supplied through the market system and the rest is gathered directy
by the farmers and villagers for own consumption.
The Market for Wood and Wood Products
5.8      Domestic and international trade in wood and forest products in Bhutan is in
its infancy. Markets for wood and f-rest products are still rudimentary and oriented toward
local demand and subsistence rather than nationally integrated. They are not formally
linked by prices or quality to those of international trading partners. Bhutan's natural
comparative advantage in international trade is handicapped by long distances and high
transport costs to external markets With the exception of export of inferior quality logs and
poles and sawnwood blocks to India (about 50,00-80,000 m3 p.a.) in excess of local
consumption and the incipient export of specialized products, such as broom handles to
Germany and lemongrass oil and Shitake mushrooms to Europe and Japan, most of
Bhutan's wood and other forest products are sold in national markets, usually in the district
and zone in which they are produced.



-37 -
5.9      Because of the small domestic market, there are reiatively few sawmills in
BhutanL All except three are in western Bhutan. Of these three, only one operates at near
full capacity (about 2,000 nin p.a.). Thus, eastern Bhutan is under a great handicap in
obtaining sawnwood, because of high transport costs relative to the low value of timber.
Prices of Wood Products
5.10      gg. Prices, distribution and allocation of primary and processed wood are
controlled by the Govermnent  This system has been mainained to serve two key
objectives: to provide low-cost wood to people and to export only surplus wood. Wood
prices are determined at different levels for urban, rural and industrial consumers. Rural
people pay the lowest price; only Nu 9/in for standing trees and about Nu 420/m3 for
purchases from depots. Urban log price is about Nu 1,000/m3, which includes a higher
stumpage (about Nu 180/n3), direct and fixed production costs. Industry is charged between
Nu 2000/m' and Nu 5,000/m3 based on the average of the previous yeas)' auction prices.
All three categories of consumers are heavily subsidized. First, stumpage values are set at
a low level to ensure an affordable rate for rural logs. Second, industiy receives high-quality
logs but pays a price based on low-quality logs sold to Indian buyers. Moreover, once the
log price for industry is set, it remains constant for about two years. A recent study by FAO
estimates the economic price of logs at about Nu 7,000/r3. Based on this figure, stupage
value of an average-quality log would be about Nu 1,800/n3 which is about ten times the
current royalty charged to urban consumers.
5.11     Sawnwm d. Although industry is allowed to purchase logs, the processed wood-
mainly sawnwood-is also allocated, distributed and priced by Government. Because of this
control there are no wholesale or retail outlets or sale depots for sawnwood outside the
control of RGOB.
5.12     Fuewood. The fuelwood market in Bhutan can be divided into two segments:
rural and urban. Rural people are allowed to collect fuelwood for their own consumption
from the state forest primarily by using dead or dying trees. f this supply is not sufficient,
each household is allowed to cut three to four green trees. In either case, users do not pay
any fee to the Govermnent Fuelwood is sold in urban markets. Felling, harvesting,
transport and delivery of fuelwood are carried out by contractors who operate with
governmer . permits awarded on the basis of bids. Contractors charge individual urban
consumers at the bid price and in return pay RGOB a stumpage fee which is Nu 12/in for
hardwood and Nu 5/mr for softwood. In addition they pay an excise tax of 5% and a
collector's tax of 1%. Current prices for fuelwood delivered in Thimphu vary between Nu
400 and 500/rn.
5.13     As explained in the context of the economic issues ficing the sector (para 2.34),
the proposed project supports RGOBs intention to revise its price and market policies for
wood and wood products. More appropriate timber pricimg would significantly improve the
financial returns to primary and secondary wood processing, in addition to generating
considerable additional government revenue.



-38 -
C    eB enefitsandugtifati
FIMWgial ad Econonic Benefits
5.14     In general the project is expected to increase wood and non-wood production,
reduce indiscriminate felling of trees and uncontrolled grazng and buming, improve the
value and productivity of forests, and encourage individual and community participation and
management of forests. With technical assistance and resources provided by the project, the
technical and managerial capabilities of DOF in Thimphu and In eastern Bhutan wfll be
strengthened. As a result, new jobs will be created, rural incomes will rise as a result of
social forestry, and significant streams of financial and economic benefits will be generated.
However, net incremental employment will be smalL
5.15     Excluding  the  additional DOF  personnel employed  during  project
implementation, the unpaid work (about 550 person-years p.a.) for agroforestry and 420
years p.a. of volunteer labor for village forestry, the project will create about 260 new jobs,
including some 140 jobs to help guard and maintain village forests and grazing areas, 75
permanent jobs in the national forest management units (FMUs) and about 45 seasonal jobs
for A/R. Since Bhutan is near a state of full employment and even experiences labor
shortages, some of the new jobs (especially with the FMUs) may even require migrant labor.
At present, because of labor shortages, Bhutan imports both unskilled and skilled labor from
neighboring countries.
5.16     One of the most significant benefits, for which only an approximation is possible,
is the higher level of real and imputed income at the farm and village level as a result of
agro and village forestry. Agroforestry is expected to raise the net value of firm production
by about Nu 30,000 p.a., for about 550 farms with an average of three adults each. In return
for unpaid labor on village forest maagement in 140 villages, about 1,200 households would
benefit if each village achieved the projected estimate of a net increase in the value of
output of about Nu 75,000 pa- This is roughly equivalent to a farm income supplement of
about Nu 2,500 per household. There {s also the intangible benefit from changing to a
pattern of land use in which agriculture coexists with forest, and farm land is used to
establish small plots of trees for both fuelwood and forest.
Financial Analysis
5.17     Financial benefits were estimated only for the National Forest Management and
the Afforestation/Reforestation components Financial returns were not estimated for the
Social Forestry Subcomponents (agroforestry and village forest management) because these
do not require a large outlay or allocation of scarce financial resources by RGOB or the
cofinanciers. Social forestry is highly integrated in the agricultural activities of the
beneficiaries, and involves transactions that do not enter the project cost or benefit streams.
5.18     Based on financial project costs (as budgeted or at market prices) for investment
and recurrent costs, phs physical contigencies when appropriate, but less the cost of short-
term technical assistance which will be provided as a grant from SDC, the National Forest
Management and A/R components generate acceptable financial rates of return (FRR):



-39 -
10% for the former and 9%o for the latter. The lower rate for A/R is due in part to the lack
of revenue from royalties for the first 20 years. If royalties were revised upward by RGOB,
as recommended by IDA and expected under the wood pricing and market policy reform,
the FRR would be higher
ficanomig Analysi
5.19     The economic costs and benefits were based on the following assumptions and
adjustments:
(a) Because the price of unskdlled and rural labor is presently undervalued, as
evidenced by the difficulty in finding Bhutanese workers at less than Nu 40- 45
per day as compared with the official wage of Nu 25 per day, a shadow wage
rate of Nu 40 has been adopted in order to reflect the scarcity of labor.
(b)  Stumpage values of logs and fuelwood were adjusted to compensate for the
underpricing of wood through present government administrative regulations.
Using the price of Malaysian sawnwood and the price of Bhutanese wood sold
in Delhi as references, an economic stumpage value for logs of Nu 775 per m3
was adopted as comparefd with the actual value of Nu 279 per m3. The
stumpage value of fuelv .od was raised from Nu 180 to 343 per n3. The
replacement cost methu  was not used because it does not reflect the 'su
costs and biodiversity of Bhutan's mature and productive forests.
(c)  The costs of investment and inputs were adjusted by 0.72, which reflects the 0.80
Standard Conversion Factor applicable to lidia plus a 10% correction for
transaction costs because of the real difference in exchange rates between the
Indian Rupee and the Bhutanese Ngultrum vs-a-vs the US doLar.
(d)  The costs of institutional strengthening of MOA/PPD were excluded for two
reasons. First, they are not specific to the directly productive components of the
project; and, second, institutional support expenditures for DOF activities in
eastern Bhutan are already considered as a cost for implementing the three
directly productive components. Replacement of equipment and recurrent costs
for forest management planning and implementation, and A/R were camed on
to the fortieth year.
5.20     The following assumptions were made for the without and wih project benefit
streams of timber. In the without project cas. ie., annual removals under unmanaged
conditions, the benefit stream is assumed to diminish to an insignificant level after 40 years
due to degradation of the forest resource. In PY 40, the net present value of standing
timber is assumed to approach zero. In the with tject caa  the benefit stream will be the
annual harvest as prescribed by the management plan plus the standing stock in PY 40
which will be larger than the initial stock.



-40 -
5.21     With the foregoing adjustments and assumptions, the economic rate of return
for the project as a whole would be 19%6, with that of individual components varying
between 13% and 29%o. The ERRs and Fs are summarized below.
Table 5.5: Economic and Financial Rates of return
Em    Em
Project as a whole                     19X
National Forest Management Component    13X         101
Afforestation/Reforestation Component   131          9X
Social Forestry Component              29X
Sensitivity to Changes in Costs and Benefits
5.22     The ERR is only slightly sensitive to increases in costs, reduced benefits and
time delays in achieving benefits, or a combination of two of such eventualities. Thus, an
increase in project costs of 10% reduces the ERR by only 1%, and a 20% decrease in
benefits reduces the ERR by only 2% largely because the foregone production of the early
years is also delayed. The possible effects on the ERR of these and other eventualities is
shown below:
Table 5.6:  Sensitivitv of the ERR
Base rate                      191
10 increase in costs          181
201 decrease in benefits       171
Two-year delay                 141
Two-year delay and
201 less benefits           131
Intangible enefits
5.23     The above analysis takes into consideration only the quantifiable benefits. There
are several other indirect benefits. The A/R programs targeted primarily in the high
demand centers will satisfy some of the timber and fuelwood requrements and thereby
(a) slow down natural forest degradation; (b) protect the water sources of small vilages and
towns; and (c) prevent soil erosion and damage to agricultural land. Further, it is expected
to generate greater public interest and pardicpation, both of which are key elements in the
conservation and development of forest resources in a country. The benefits from the
nstitutional Support Component are greater than the scope and duration of the project.
Since it is an intangible benefit mostly in the form of enbanced public administration
efficiency and technical sdills in conducting forest inventories, the value of such benefits in
eastern Bhutan cannot be quantified.



- 41 -
D. EnvironmentaUl mIct
5.24     The project will reinforce RGOB's commitment to conservation of the country's
natural forests and their biodiversity. The project will not only maintain and increase the
existential value of eastern Bhutan's foresty assets, but it will also dearly demonstrate that
sound forest management is synonymous with sound resource conservation, as more
regeneration is allowed, and grazng and the extracton of firewood and other forest
products are controlled. In the forest management units, natural regeneration will be
enhanced and biodiversity maintained; in the A/R areas and through vilage forest
management, watershed protection will be enhanced; through agroforestry, grazing and
fuelwood pressure on national and village forests will be reduced and soil erosion will be
controlled. The impact of these benefits cannot be realistically estimated except by
monitoring during project implementation and thereafter.
E. Imp= on
5.25     In Bhutan, women's legal status and their status within the household are good
compared to most South Asian countries. Women and men are treated equally by law and
daughters can inherit their parents' property. Womenes access to education, however, is
limited, and only 10 percent of women are literate (compared with almost 35 percent for
men); and, partly as a result, all extension workers are male and most of the training for
improved methods of agriculture and technology has been directed to men. There are
chapters of the Women's Association of Bhutan in eastern Bhutan and the project will
actively pursue collaboration with the local Women's Associadon chapters to ensure a
greater impact of women, especialy in the social forestry activities of the project.
F. Fiscal Suainabii
5.26     With the exception of the Institutional Strengthening Component, all project
components are expected to be financially self-sustaining, as reflected in the financial rates
of return estimated. The institutional costs, including incremental staff salaries and benefits,
and travel and daily allowances, would amount to about US$160,000 per annum at the end
of the project implementation period. These will have to be borne in full by RGOB but
appear reasonable in the light of substantial increase in the level of forestry activities, and
their associated benefits, generated by the project Furthermore, it is expected that,
following completion of the project, population growth and economic development in the
project area will generate an additional demand for wood and wood products beyond the
level provided by the project, thus requiring an expansion of forest management activities
which wil justify maintenance of at least the staffing levels prevailing at the end of the
project.
G. Ejct Risks
5.27     The project is subject to two major risk factors. The first is the potential delay
in project implementation due to the weak absorptive and implementation capacity of DOF



-42 -
and lack of trained personnel in Bhutanx Although the project does not address the human
resource constraint in a comprehensive manner (because major human resource
development programs are the subject of ongoing and planned astance programs by the
Government of Switzerland and the European Communes, respectively), the institutional
support provided by the project and the human resource planning that is part of project
preparation will reduce this risk considerably. Besides, every attempt is being made to keep
the project manageable and realistic in relation to the limited human resources available
within the country. Also, the projects mid-term review is epected to fiuish the necessary
feedback information for conections in project desig and implementaton.
5.28      The second risk factor is poor response by the intended beneficiaries, espedaly
to the Social Forestry Component The project will pay much attention to people's
participation in the management of forest resources. In particular, the success of the
Agroforest1y and the Village Forest Management Subcomponents will depend largely on
local involvement. Since community management of forests is rather a new concept in
Bhutan, it is not clear how this will be received and translated into action by the people.
Therefore, the project envisages a slow and steady adoption of this idea and will allocate
a signcant amount of time and resources for adequate preparation and extension work to
educate the public, so that their commitment is ensured.



.43 -
VI. AGRE}iMEN1S RELACHED AND RCNAI?
6.1      The following agreements have been reached:
(a) RGOB will provide to IDA by August 31, 1994, for its review and comment, a
recoendation on the management and operational arrangements it intends
to adopt for its national forest management units and that the recommendation,
taking into account IDA's comments, will be implemented no later than July 1,
1995 (para 2.30);
(b)  an action plan for pricing and marketing policy reform, agreed with IlDA, will
be implemented no later than July 1, 1994 (para 2.34);
(c)  a detailed plan for privatization of seedling production and distribution will be
sent to IDA no later than March 31, 1994 for its review and comment, and that
the final plan, taking into account IDA's views, will be implemented no later
than July 1, 1994 (para 235);
(d) the A/R program for each year of the project will be subject to review and
confrmation by IDA no later than July 31 of each preceding fiscal year, and
that this component will be carried out so as to satisfy one or more of the
agreed criteria (para 3.17);
(e)  based on the outcome of the project's mid-term review, adequate TA provisions
will be made for the remainder of the project implementation period
(para 3.23);
(f)  NEC will anmally monitor the enviromental aspects of the project in
accordance with a memorandum of understanding, satisfactory to IDA, entered
into by NEC and MOA no later than December 31, 1993 (para 3.24);
(g) the Project Facilitation Officer will be responsible for approving and overseeing
all field activities to be carried out under the project, that he wll act as the
project manager, and that he will be assisted by an assistant project facilitation
officer who will be a senior forestry officer (para 4.3);
(h)  a comprehensive mid-term project review will be undertaken by MOA, IDA and
SDC, and arranged by IDA, no later than December 31, 1996 (pam 4.12); and
(i) no later than the end of 1995, and every other year thereafter, the Government
will convene a meeting of the key donors involved in the forestiy sector to assess
the project's contribution to achieving the objectives of the Forestr,y Sector
Programme Framework (pam 4.13).



- 44 -
6.2      The following will be conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a) the adoption by the Government of the revised Community Forestry Rules,
takdng into account IDA!s comments (para 2.33); and
(b)  the signing and fillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
cofinancing agreement between SDC and RGOB (para 327).
6.3      With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA Credit to the Kingdom of Bhutan of SDR 3.9 million (US$5.4
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.



ises "in  Mws nt Uumgst POWs,9
we It .9 ost NrAle"
unit5 Ctot                    klt emop                                                    totto '95us V -  ----------
&Aoatv                      U,4-00                                                    *u 
ages         IsK         9001969 If1.1st             59              3      K       9        4      9 9 399V  9  fi    904.1       93    9      5    9     01    9      99    sa4
c.l.1gEdostsoO
=4lqw.418    us.    I    0    a    a    0    0    a    I        41.K         49.5S    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   4M01    U.7   *.o   0.   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0
"W" wtow    3s.    I    0                                      3.0           "149.    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   369.    33.   OJ   0*6  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  93.8
et.3. P4.                       3    0    0    0    0    0    0             4300         310.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.            .      49 00 0    00   @0#   0.0   0.0  *4.
"1.ss..Be),.,            u.    a   0    a    a    a    0    0    g          ao.e0         g6.g      .       . 0.0    0.     0 0.0    0.     0    10.0 $A    3   0.0   0.0 0.0   0.4 1 0    0.0 0.0   9.9
SUdsho P,.jscst          Ao.    I    0    0    a    0    0    0             81U.90        Uo.      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   50*4    4. 40.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.1
Illl. Swalhtot           1m.    I   0    0         0    0    0 a             .0K          40.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    400           8.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   8.4
P9GI#cw*ltc&             S")   u I a    0o    a         a    0 0     O      oo.oo         "A.    0.0    0.0    0.0   00.1    0.0    0.0  803.    33.0   0.0   $  0.0   0.0    .    0.0   0.0  13.5
"Icolomu                 to.    2    0    0    0    0    I    S    a        25.00        4K.       0.0    0.0    0o.0    0.0   n00.       0.09   0.0   94.   0.    0.    s.0   0.0  3.5   0.   33.
#161-  trwi41*     3s.    S            0 a              a ais...                    50.0    0.0 0.0     0    ,0  0.0       36.1S 0.0       64.1M    4.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   I0.J   3.3   0.0  Is.%
61r9.55 -IN 0 6455                         6               I8 4      0  I 34 5.00       4900.0  5540 45.0      0.0    0.0    0. 0 o       0.0  W10.       44.  43.9 0. 0.0   0.0 0.0 V         0.0  349.8
tt0bl55~~~~~~30  U  0    4    4    0    0    0    0   38~~~~~~~~~~3.4   10.000.    44.  5.0    0.0    0. 0 0.0           0.0Y00.4       0.0 L    35?1. .0        0.0 0.0   0.0    38.
I. M4     o"o 3.sw4          034          4500                 0                 5.0          40.0   40.4   30.9      0.0      0.0p  02.0    0.0  200.5    95.0   Ca.  0.3   0.0  SLY  0.0   0.0  us.0
4   11   me eswo  6  6    0    0    a    a   24      900.00       onA4015.   444.   8*.4    1310  .3  41.9   30.3    3.6.  153014   925.  I6.S 04.9 MA39 .0  80.0   4.3 50.1
0. 13449slsI6
US               93     3~~~~~~~~~ 4    3    3    1s   3  It 1      Ill."         09.0   90.0  300.4   90.1   11.5   40.1    8.           4.      3.    3 1.1'  56.4   .0   4.0   4.8   4.1  8U.A u
94,0. 0u95kwsstIgs.4) '3.3  4    I 3    4    4 4    I      48.0        43.0    43.0    1.4    1.1   533    14.    50.    314.44.5   .4M3.    3.4   .9  3.    8.118.4 
Iso.  .SstCol   01  0    9    4    8    8    8    8   30  81.00      0.0   84.0    1.0   95.3   14.8   49.          4.1   80.4      0.   i.0   0.9   8.0   3.9   8.8   8.5  U0.*
Oslo ftmsss.s 4  1  44  0    0    4    4    3 ~~~~~~~~~~   1    5  4400  0~~4.0  0M.0  ma.6   510.  115.4   54.0   50.9   445.0  0n.0   0.0   43   4.0  ".0   3.0  18.  0m.5
Ca'Ior54.Il0..OsIwe   54  0 9a  I4             I    4          4      4.00          0.0  4".    43.    Ml.   55.3   14.    105.4    MA9.            0.0   .3   1.44.     4.0   4.9    .    8.5  34.3
01.'.   93     4    3    I    8    3    8    8   39~~~~~~          ~ ~~~~~~~ 81.00  81.0   84.3    80.    59.9   45.3   460.    "0.    550.  0.0  A.   4.I  .     .      4 3       3.
0#Ssse  54   4    3    1    5    3    1    S   31        85.00~~~~~~~~~~~~a  60.0    18.3    OA.   063.    0.    93.0   01.    518.    8.S   8.4   3.0   1.    3. 1  .    1.1,  804
0t4s                     p            4    3   a    a    I    a             80.0          30.0    80.    38.4    84.    35.3   814.    30.3   11.         0.8   0.1   09   0.0   0.0   3.0   3.0  4.0
S. 0a4a,abIsSIa                                              I    S    Sts                  801.0   341.   444.    5W9.   514.   109.   688        UA  .0 5593 4039.3     .   90.   3.0 .0 3118.8 98S.
1014480) o*q                11       I    I    I    I    I    I    a 1      3.00          80.3    8.9  .4 33.     3.6    31.    31.0    99.   351.        *A    4A.1   1.3    .    1.1   3.4   9.4  0.9
sun                      St 5t.sbd$ 0  0    3    S    a    a    a    a   t0  15.10        05.0    6.3   86.9    .94.    39.9   33.0   88.         0.3    0.0   0.5   0.A.           .     .     .     .
ISO 01 USlyst,)         3~~~~ 3    I                        to  1 8  U.0          83.    31.0   34.    80.4    31.    80.         53.0   94.1    0.S   0.8   0.9   H.   S.U  I.   ".   O.
448o.9.49eq               .                                     3 1          1K           15      30.      8.     3.      430 903 930 08.                  .      .     .     . I   .3   .4   1.4  36.
IsOld  mlaStSass)  Os. 3    3    4 3    s    4 4    1    4.00          4.0   130    41.        50.1    53.4     4.0    5.3   55.0    3.   4.4   .3   9.    3.9   .043.03I.
M                                          S.~s5*4 ~ U.      I     I 1       5.00         I.4   19.5    5.5   34.1    3.0           .      4.5    84.     0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.   0.4   0.8  0.9
81234.3 81A.   8        0.1 3994    95.   3)8.    369.1  C534          9.   9.0   130.1 953.0  98.5  13.1
901t 0   '3W5 `019             58.3   08.4   19.5   U8.5   06.   934.   913.  5101.9   38.   8.   85.1   9.4  59.   38.9  36.1 99.
to 3                     13.   539.    3.91.   66.CS9390.   90.   98.    9.   A8.   093 1   0    130   38   34.0  40.0
*4 94 544464o hi Iossmgst~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.                                      m *A             A j
os~~~~~~~~~~~1                     M          t        1    lg* O     4.                 l      A g-            A 4.4            49 $I S             4 3.



betafte13  Cat ssaime   m
Wtgt.                       Iowa.4    919 m446   Q641"lo                                  oat 4ho mNO
a.uaM s mu, ivtw
*spot* 01vialommi         so.    0    4           I    0                4     206.80       0.0   330.3   3140.0   30.       0.0     0.0   394.1  363.3    0.0      6      0.I    9.3    06      0.0   105   M6A
Sol    a                                                  360        000       60      00£1.             *      00 359135 a             3.9     6.    6.6  M9.$    6.6    0.0  193.0  413.4
314d6WIiI9M84       91~~~O.    I    *    0                       4      910.06 0     0        .       .      0*      0.0     0.0      0.6   am6.                            Le060  .  .  6* 02   0.     4
6000 9161. 614446m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                             66                           .     4
I1    0O                    0          I      ".44.9     o.4      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     .06    464      47     06     60      66     0       .       .
contrat  Wksbo     91.    0I                                            Woe          0.0   340.      **      0.0     0.0     0.0      6.6   546A     *.o   it"      .6.     . S     .:    o.o  ~.e   ItA
*M*"o  nem                s.           4    t                                  a 4 3."3    10*    MA3.    410.6     0.0     0.0     0.0    .0.    4*        5.0      *    6.4    6.L     0      0.6    1.0   U.I
0-sto  = 'mosiom    ft.    a    I    I    a    a4           135.06     3W9.    1.    464.9    0.          0.L.o66 44                     3.       . I.I    e.:    0.           Le.   .6   33.6
famt     914mo.   91o      a    0    O    I         0            I     310.06        *A      0.       .     1..0    0:    0.          06 51.         6.   6 L       0.0   455    0.        .0    0.0   U.
C. IUiU9hS*4. VookIa                                            1586.4   611.4   341.1  5635.0     0.0     0.0  3095.9 113134  346* ;3;;.3.6   43.3  39 I10.4    6.0"  Q0*s1.3.6  614.0W
3106449  91.    5    0    3    0    6    0    6    5    ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~510.06  900.  0.0   434.0  0.0  6.0    0.0      6.6  M434A   53.4    *A    334    0.6    0.0    6.0    0.S   15.5
~~4I   ..'~~:-   .    5    0    3    0    6    0    0~~la   SS    oe0.0s    sue.        0.0   M13.       0.0      0.0    0.0     to  un.0   43.9    Ls   Sm.    6*8    6.664.6              0      14*0
Fkk-o tow   C*$   se.          I    :    :    a    0    0    I        me0.00      430.    "        0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     6.0  1417.    *0.-5   30.4    OA    6.       6.0    0.0    6.    W-.6
ftemcgele                               6    I~~~~~ I    a      16.9       40.0    St's    33.1    34.       0.U34          1.      I4        .      .             I* 1*  0      3        A.6
6. IUWkP8O0. 146*140                                                                         536.0    66.   43S0.?    34.0    0.6    n3 .4  4L   £315.4  456.4   31.1   33.1    5*2    0.0    3*    5A   ISA-
9.10.6 loggloer            3           3    S     0    0     0    6 1          09          0.0  5170.       0.6.0 0.LO .    166                             66       .      .      .      .       .     0.0  134.9
#*Mt S5                    0    0    6    4 43   1          6   3       300.3      L0        0.0     0.6   036.   4336.   40.         0     'M 4 A1.  6.6   30.6    0.6   J3.6  13.3  151.    2*   115
SSOW  Ing0 6S3    6    0    0    0 a                                    306.00       0. 0 46.    634.        0.0     0.6     .0.      0*   no's    6.6   61.4   33.4    6A    0.6    0.S    .0   00A
J4.w#v1ro.91.1641,  0  0    0    9    0    0    0             9     300.4        0.0      0.6   no4.;     6.      0.6      .0      0*4  304.9    0*    C*    MA.    0.0   0LO    6.0   60*  166.1
0.6  50456  3366.   3036.5411.0  4401.3  0.0  "OVA.    6*0  30.3-      3. 1304 U     131.5  131*    0.0  113.
A. Wigged Cwtintmna            014    3I                                    0      309         1.    30.    366 81.    40               3.    W"6.   039         7.3   45.4   46.4   41.3  1.       346 31106
I. Iu.h.~~~w. 6a.tqam.e  4.    50   10   10   10   30   30   30~~~~~r 31  .00  40S.    430    444.4   I109   435.5   436.    335.    MA3       $t    3.0    4.4    4.3    A.    4*    6*    30*
motm4.914391  1*14.4      Me     0 2    4             30so       S   360        3.6        0.0    401 40.0 U 144           049.    431.11  565.    16         .0    3.6     . OA    5      .5    5.4    1.9   P34K
am"e.3S~   .0414      9         0 6   3         40      Ss3  So  U10        o.oo        OA      0.0    46*     31.     41.      49.     "A.t   Ho         .     0.*    6.4    4.1    3*2   .A    4.6
911..0bi 31041.    91        0    0     0 3        0 1        0   o           s        0        .       .      41.5   514    49.6    33.       M 4.0    6.0    6.0    5*6    0.Ls             .6    46     6
OWN1s4u93.34414           s                 0    6   30   U6 10         6 4      .46       0.0      0.6     0.       .     1.A06             34 44.          .      B        *    6.       . 
an.                       so6644.0.4.   a   0     6         "U3    460          0.13C       6.0     0.0     0.0     0.6     0.0     6.6      I      IS6      0.6    *.o    *.0    L.O      A      .4    1.6 
664t.#6g(944  3.0.9        1     0 3        40 41   43   46   4 30              6.5        0      14*      444 3* 396 43* 410.   365.                       0*6    6.3   1*    4.    54.4   U-14           
614.91e.041o4s43e394.41.4 s9  0    0    0 44   3 4    45  M9              4.55       L  *40.0    35.4    10S.6   363.         3       5      44       *e     0               .      . 
64.34g.494044 3.104.41.5   3.  6   ~0  200   30   401  45  463         4.35       0.0     0..0   0        0.     51.1    10.6     I U S" 36.0      0.     0.C      *.Oi                  *             .
~~6.916.40.ds4 3.101.11.4   91  0    0    0    0~~~~ 0   3    40   us  0.10   .0.     0.6     0.0:     0.     0.0V     4.     10.1    M        L.e    06     0*      0 6.0         0.      34      .6
40   de  0.90      0.6   46.7   41.3   61.9   6.4.   964.6  U61   431?              3.            466 3.    10.    C*    S0143.
..............
me                            4    4    S    0          so        4.~~~~~~~~~~~~150.  934.   153.6  4635.1  6053.6 M 14.4   330 150310.   444.   30.4  31.5  34*  374    Le.  3t3.4 316.4
96~. 0*14                 45     0    31   I    3    4    4    S    9          23.00       6.0    46.4    19.6    33.    446.3   433.1   461.0   336.0    6.0    4.1   14.    3.6    4*2    4.4    I4   146.
114.65 1941,WtSwwS.,  U    *    a    3    4    4    3    3   U3         346.9        6.0    63.1    61.?1445.6   435.1   30J.   34s.%   W6.4    .0.          32       .4    6.4    1.4    1.4    1.3   3094
I.60&fi61481*.d*,.416)    37  0    a    3    4    4    S  I33          U.0         0.      645.6          446ii  i.5   416.    533.    144.0   64.1    0.0    4.1    4.9    5.9    4.3    3£S    .6   33.0
~~ ~~~ ~~  ~~~'    *    3    3    4 ~~~~~~~ 4    £        3      2.3          00     4.       40 465    4.            S.      4.      4.        .      .     4.      3.     4.    1.        *    3.
551i ~~~          £1     4    4    4    4    4~ ~ 2  S         1       a3.00e.t                         o    35.6    340133.A31U6 9.4    1 .1 53 .4 49 .? 0*    .9 6.6    5      4.0    4.4    5.3    6.9
37     4               4 I        S     S 4    1 U   3.oo        0.    W.9   033.4     I4   361.3          A     163 $ f 36.  0 1 0.       .     0*    6.      0.0    4.0   .4.    6.0
aepee 6008.,       II~~~S  0    I    3    I    I    I    4    I6    42.93           03.6    460      9.3.0          430.1   44.4     336.4A  665.       a4   0.0 4.  54      .     6.1    6.0    4.4   3.0.
6.p4 9M0            63     0    3     3          5          *               ~        0.6    34.      3.9S3. 6I.3S3.    4366   41.3                     .0    .9    3.0    1.       1.4    5.4    4.6 1.
304w.       s~~~~    s    6    0    6    0    6    6   SI        20.66~~~~~  10.6   30.3   46A.   2495 304    349.6 331.   433.6    5.U                 *    6        .      .4    96     01 4.
9141W4016944010661    13 I .  4 4    4    4          4   .1      g.os         3.6    4.6    414    50. I5.4    36.    239.    1.A    4.6    4.6   .4.    .4    5.6                  .      .5 1.
910414  M.tIeta           * ~ ~ ~ 3               3    2     3    3 1           50          6.6    46.4    14.9   331.4      6.3    6444W,.:40                      41      49     3      34     33     35 1.
-  0    2    3    2    4    4   ~~~~~    ~~~~4 46  no.00  6* 41      516.1  443.3  331.   34.4  U63.$ 317.6    6*0   30.4   3.                 .0.    6.4   66.1   9.    0.
0          S 3      a5           a~  St      206          0.0    33.      30s.6    99.0   441.    45.    3*   sm1.,    0.0    0.6          A~  5.1    .4    6.0    .1   31.6
13 ud 66 ~~~I41.64et  54  3    6    6    6   40   48   33   53  9  369    39~~~~~~.3    641.0  621.0   4461.6   436.0  4S94   643.   .?    3.     3.5    3.4   s.3   s.3    6.3   33.
36504941*4 Swd  S  6    6    6    6   9?   83   8    36    1.10        0.0    49.      £5.3    36.6   486.    416.6   444.4   3469    6.0    4.0    1.6    8.        4.5    4.3    6.4   10
9444 944o.(id.             1     a     1    6     £                    I4      30.66       94.5    40.    413.9   463.    44.0 34.  61.    34.*  11:.    I.          .     6.5    A.       .      .      1. 1144.
46.1..4944                 1                S     6    £     1    6 3          4.3        400 43* 346 31.                   6.      1.    36.   539.         4.16    .13    6.4   S"      91    6.6   "03  S
91la04~~. 0914wCp8e3    91.    3    3    4    £    1    6    £   29  3.93  6.5  0.9    84.5    40.0    99.6    36.4    34.903    450.3W    6* nA6.4    0.6    .. S0.1    6.1    0.6*A  .6
91930. 93,8    91.    3    3~~~~~~               ~~~ 5    1    5    4   U0  A0 9.    484.   144S.0  1316.   439.4   59.4   291.9 I44M.            5.4    1.41   W.      6.4    N.4    6.1   16.4   40.0
10103   3*i6,           4~~~~~~~~~ 4    a 4   1 4     4      W1      43.0         OA3 .0 53.       44     14.6   141.4    14       4.3 40          0.4    6.       .     0.9    0.0    6.4   0.6      3.
Otlwt.                   £~~~~~~$1    6    6    6   It   is   to   is    10.9    46.5    63.1   96.6.3                1 n.      e 16.   93.1           4.3    I       .3    3.3    3.4   43.    S.       6
JohwrpkiSm. 41dm..  0e.         I    S    4    S    SS  Is  11          33406       I 0.6      A.   334.4   435.    M64.    169.    417.9   OlE       6.      3.4    5.3    3.5    3.    0*6    6.    3.
60.    I    ,    ,      34.944836.0166.9306.                                     'O3.,  331.    904.1  44.  4640.3    4.0    9.5   13           0411.5    #.  )9.1  14.4  646.       i!
40.44930S6I909  405416SU    69.3  3363.0  33640  6333.0  364.4  630.4  36040.1    35 6.    9 3 3.4                                     136.6   01.1  31.0  655.
.1. 3.04.80 Lw 914w.t 1*If.                                                                            IA:"       S,       `                     4M        .2           a&.
~,9140...666. 4at4~ 146819  0m87 tuwS                                          co 4014046
Sested ~~~~~~~ 5060.0 1,41465  131:36SS                                                                          UI: s    N . S



031*0
Stoisled Cost Ijils
v5I6t C064                      totels 6O14id1. CO   46uIs                                     .66  IIohwi.4o caftomcfscI
4mwtsl 41                                                            maimO                                                          us o*m0
9414    .9           ...9........9....9198.0..                                                        ......93....94.5.. 1    . 8013..94 .96                        9      98.....9.... .......
4. 39840 to t0 wmncii 410      ism                                                                  5.       11       09      0.0     0.0      0.0     9.0   Ill.*       2.0   2.4    .    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.0
0. 0.44440.     io -n~4 a-     NM 600    50   40   0    08   90   40         S60        2.90       W00.0       1383 44.9   2*4.2   211.0   243.1   n5J.5  6*9.4          2 .4   4.9   5.6 " 0.0   6.3   8.0   9.0  46.4
4.  .w lslw    'awmiss      3o                                                        .06j*~~00                            00      00       09      40      *..4            0.a00s.    00    .    0.0   0.0
0   0#tottao 56.W***                             3$ 0o:0    9Is.U0                               It.      1843     26      0.        .      0.0 4COO        36.       0.I.          .     .      .     .    0.0   6.3
0. 44.d I so4.                 90.      I    6    8    4    6   la   Is   so           25.00        5. 415. 4 M     119.6   400.9   194.1   405.4   4yf9.  1016.         2.0   6.2    .    4.1   6.9  14.   15.0  %1.4
taW-Awl Orily               94.      I    0    0    0    0    I    0    a         S06.00        SM0.      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   621.3      0.0  1111.S       19 00 00 00    .    68 00 3.
NsISftvde olo        5.~~~~s.  I    0    0    6    0    1    0   *0          58.00       M10.      0.0     0.0,  M01.       0.0   *56.1      0.0   610.6       U.     .     .    1.:   0.'.I002.
10.0     0.0     0.9   20386      0.9   04.6.      9.0   1814.9    25.4   9.0   0.0   7.3   0.0  54.0   0.0  05.6
6os6o.6.4u,a..s6n.0..&  s..                                                              ISM1.    444.2   449.9   t11.?    0.9    ".4.0    34.9   161.2       4.9   5.2   5.4   1.6   2.9   3.0   4.2  UJ
090 0a1.04ot9 ig bingo  94.   a    I    2                           14       to.90        *2.0    25.0    24.0    26.4    2.1.    29.3    56.0   181.3        0.0   0.8   0.'   0.9   6.0   4.0   1.1   6.0
~~"v~e'54w  4OCt80   94~1.    1    4    6    6    4    6    S   56           10.40        22.0    46.      14.5    19.3    83.4    98.0    92.9   465.9       0.8   4.0   2.1   2.0   5.0   3.1   3.3  11.4
54ed~ lags 409  £ 40) .4'so.  6                                      4      111.00       412.5  4M.1       0.0   '01.    485.4      0.0      00   My8.&      64.1  65.    0.0  66.1  61.8   0.0   0.0  *4.
54.4  on  9 4          Sao).. s.   0    S    0      1    O, 0I                   UT42."         0.0   031.       0.0   65S.0     0.0   111.5      :.0   471.4       0.0   5.J   0.0   5.J   0.0   C.1   0.0  61.4
0W$4019  "&we COW" '4a    so.              a    2    0    2    2            a      315.40         0.0   065.5   09.2       0.0   910.1t  360.6      0.0  314.4.      .0.  30.9  32.4   0.0  34.8  36.0   0.0 633.
loti 0I"* tow* .1.          94       0    6    6    I    6    4    6   34          60.00          0.0    69.0    14.5    19.      83.4    60.0   'a.9   4464.9       0.0   2.5   2.2   2.0   3.0 3. 3.3 .   61.
IMtiS vW@19.*m              so.     It   it   42   62   It   of   It   W4            #.0         63.2    i3.      14.     35.s0    66.1    11.6    t8. 640.06        0.5   0.5   0.5   08       .4   00 01 3
"Ul vattsb"                 ft.      0                           I         I    4   201.00        0.0    33.0    24.0    24.4      1,      29.3 I  56.0   462.3      0.0   0.0,  0.9   0.9O   4 .0   6.0'  4S.6'   5.0s
469.1  4410.6   $1.?   83J.  1695.   USIA.    *6.2  1449.1          W6.   5t.9  39.1  58.5  60.3  36.2   9.5  2680
'oroeow.'te' 4.-            so       I    0    0    0    0    0    0   62           00.00      420.0  2561.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     9.0      0.0  5141.      4.9  98.9   0.8   0.0   0.8   0.0   0.0  412.0
forset latealon Stolf 4# SW  &    6    6   it   Is   is   of  "        *134.3  4158.6  1305.9  6623. 4  0.5   805.0   S14.& 66019.           91.0  41.  51.   506.0  10.1  4It.$  "4.I  W0.
64. omtot cosets"Ct
la646   469"Gawr.5 '12     S         6    a    a    42   It,  It   a2   V4."                     36.1    59.     64.0  6in..   143.4   651.2   459.    mO0           2.0   2.4   2.3   4.9   5.4   5.4   $.1  21t. S        j
USOISs mselt 44 "MI)       ft.       I    I    I    I    I    I    2    9           50.0         52.5    54.9    59.      62.9    60.    649.    441.       1.0 50.  .      .0   2.4   3.2   2.4   5.9   5.I  20.0
flo1e4 a 440 940.it         am.s        I 1    1    3   i3   Is   is   11            5.00        22.0    231.0    24.9    49.1    56.0    34.6 5.4        203.6 02.0    0.0 O    - 0.9 6.   6.0   2.0        A   40.4A
Colwu4tqs   f,d4mns#ory    Fil       6    A    42   42   42   68  Is   *4            5.00        St.'s    2. 51     .43   M3.     19.6   424.0   455.0   549.1       5.4   1.8   1.5   2.2   2.8   .S   %.I  *s6
of*44  Om ,wW4#o        05.       3    3    I    0         0    0    0 9          .00         0.       #.9    10.1     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    58.0      0.4   0.4   0.4   0.0    .0  #P.0   0..   4.4
000. 4644  6640     45 .        .            .           .     ..                         2.9     6.0      4.      4.9,      .5     1.J     0.4    65.5       0.4   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.5   1.4
twos. ""do                  94       0   62   is   24   58   ;8   30  I44            6.Al.i6.                    2.       58.2    39.     42.0    44.3   6909        0.0   0.5  0.0      60.6   4.4   6.4   3.0   0.0
*tflStts..5Ott.tflt;tflt...toot . ........ .t.......   *..... ...... ...... ...... ...s.. ...... ...... t.....
*4. tows.a 9t.stdsd Bait 040 904. owweh.. 66. gsai0 ........  .. .a...s.
'.1 Uso 8.42.d42   to*.It.44to s0to ananlcmit05~s. i WV         4t....
.4. IM6o6 Ses,WSuuoget2
*94o 64" 3 s"sos  W"Mdou3  9
*  0.484 SuwOc uo4e                              Sfhe M  IvpoWLt
.03  asOo 630  04dslg. w.h4),b4o a.m.w Sautd 0 M D c*taimlelest.
9464 (ton  3604.0 tv                 5481W lst



son "mmcm  meluttss  .
lotafted Cost 1.3m.
W343t tlls                     30151 kmttdk* 1om33.gas                                       Wait5 331W399 S04oMenowl
............................................  ........  .................................................................  .....................f ............................
6.     *to w  acttvittt  '3. Ito0                                                                0.0   103.3    USA.   334.9   431.0   438.1   463.3  3991.         0.0   3.1   6.0   3.1  34.   is.1  30.5  1s3.
U.a.,A.s are"s                     3    0                0    3    *    a       lWOO        330.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   413.3     0.0  13113.3     11.9   0.0   0.9  10.0   0.0  33.    0.0  30.
040forttUs                 lb.     4    0    0    0    0    4    0    0          30.411     30.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   W4.1      0.0   34.         4.3   9.    0.0   *A    0.0   3.3   0.0   9.3
C. cqd~    od IMIWIOU  ~ ~ ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       43.0      0.       00       .0     0.0   M30.       0.0  3101.0      33.    0.0   oo   A.*   A.0   m.    A.A  09.3
Isdo*Ias3souS  0360.1.04   S 43....                            ...3.                                 33.      3.0    33.3    331.9    33.4    34.0   353.        *.8   i.e   0.9   3.3   0.91  0.1   *SA   s.S
0. steeIa. ad SOmbosi
Co04StA m**a.91t**. '30    M.      I    0    0    5    0    0    0    3          30.91       30.0     0.0      0.0    39.9     0.0     0.0      0.0   30.9       3.6  01.0   0.0   3.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.9
0 a lo'  Usitstep         910.     &    4             6       &     4   a3        0.409      00.0    03.  .?           M#1  .  I3.91   91.0    04.4   30.14      3.3   3.3   3.4   3.0  ;3.?   3.9   3.0  *t0.
doe"  Mubseus             0..      3   33   34   31   U6   U    3 4 30           30.30      W3.0   333.4   31.0   W0.0   4S1.    400.3   300.1  331.1            4.3   4.5   9.1  30.3  06.5  31.3S  30.3  60.3
V$iss"g WbebeGC            go.    St   30   so   4    40   40   4   3S"           SAOg       60.0   312.4   303.    301.0   301.0   310.1   331.?16341.3         3.3   4.3   .3  30.3  30.3  3.4  33.3  30.1
St    I    A    I    I    3   34               W0.D        30.0    30.9    33.4    34.      3.3       01     3.      0         0.1,  0.1   0.0  0.9   0.9 3.          30    .
OMMoo   m3        Itn.     a1                                            4       33.,00      40.0    13.3      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.     30.        3.     3.    00 00 00 00    ,                3.
3    0    0  313.00~~SSAN  0.0   10.0   031.       0.0   OW3.    931.9     0.0  303.1        0. 3.3  39.I3'  0.0  33.3  33.1   0.0  3'.0
Stdp fenstW*o.3a.s3oleft3.1.       0    I    I    3    I    0    0    4         330.0         0.0   303.3   3n13.    303.    390.3     0.0     0.0  313.         0.0   9.4   9.1  30.3  10.3   0.0   0.0  39.
V~0s 534.9 kson           91.      0    3            4        4         30      30.30         0.0    30.9    13.3    13.9    11.9    301.0    04.4   313.        0.0   0.1'  0.0   3.0   3.1   3.0   3.11  S3.
*.vk03,6  PeotIg          91                                                      0.60        0.0    30.9    33.3    33.9    31.3    30.1    30.0   341.3        0.0   0.1   0.0   0.9   0.9   0.90   3.0  $3.
6. toctiolet                                                                                                                                                             -SI-.41.    131339933.   33.    093   604 3.    3..0 611... 3-9 .0 1..3r--   .0.S9 33... M3.3
3.tant.r4S.3n3..g Ipos.    09  1    0    3~~~ 0    0    0    a   3s  300 3300.04UI.   331.    903.10    01.0       0.0      0.0     0.0  "409.1'    139.9  9.  31.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 301.
0. 133   Iamot 310 Staff
tec iltotm          09    10   16   U    3M   33    0            1          .0        30.    300.3   30.3   335.1    33.9    40.0        0.0   03.1F      3.3   0.1   1.3   1.1   3.1   3.4   0.0  30.0 00
6. 913.3.t 04e3 8n13v331.t    Itow         .     ..                ..               .               .0    VA.3        33.3  5.    43.1    41.6    44.3   399     8.6    0.0 4.  0.3   3.3   3.3   3.1   3.1   1.0
C. at&t dowe"119 costs
3A100 Dm3 tiestore 4.      Ms    30   U       36   33 I       4    0  S"4         3.0        MI.3    39.     64.0    61.9   .23.9    33.6      0.0   33.0        1.01  3.3   3.3    .4  01.9   0.3   0.0   9.3
VOW343 I.t.woe.t 41.    Om.        I    I    I    3    I    3    I    1          30.30       33.3    34.      3043.9          13 6 .0 6 060.3    13.1   133.9    3.0   3.0   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.4   3.0  31.3
N.torqts wolsnbosfc.      91       4    4    0    4    4    4    4   30           3.09       33.6    33.3    14.1    34.9    31.6    30.0    31.3   303.9        0.4   0.1   0.3   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0    .
3.3.3ItUOiOt(15                    0.    333.04     6.    333.9      433.    363.    0       M1133 00.  L.0  33.    4.   30.    1.9   6.3   4.5  04.3
*...  .; .  *. f..i ;     .. U.**.SS    SO s R *. ... .....SS    ........  .......  ......   . .....   ......  .....   ......   ......   .....  ......
I.t.t                             3361.4  4443.   3333.1  31031.9  3093.   1333.   341.S 30039.0       93.3 30.0  33.3  43.0 309.  330.0  6.0 10.6
3.......... vo#.os3s0.p.t,.tvto3    se.Um .Iz*3
3. for VA 3130 fo.t310.twO.
3. 3. la.406  taI tyOof .gr.1hr STt ad WHIMStqO f t   sAOgoMs.
.40 3qc3399sol ofe3 bo elau  usnmd bw .4.1.33060
4S Ul3p Nolift S3 =eo    40=       601s0t to u de- sd seatM hrmosy.
.10 cm" 4o3M9of ...3303M.
sIt Cost. Oesed by 3030.  3*311993 V31$



Detailed Cost Umt,
"Af cost                         1.3.3, Imelooire Cart ipa ncin                                lot.3. Incdt*i"  cA#447004.cla
sinw333v                                                                8WOOD                                                          us s*oo
i33 9 94    9 96 6200    g foist.                               of99 9  94       95      96       9f      90     199   It.to                      Os94 9  96    91    Os    of91.3.3
A. Wcdui*tw*3 ftoaM#ns. do.
P316ulaftI Tr              to     65   la   70  120  320  M3  IS0  743              MO4        IN0. I 332.7   323.0   33.3    21.    S00.4   323.1  3413.2           3.6   4.0   4.3   1.9   *.3   MO.  It.0  80.6
POm3.31am Tell             5       0   03   10   10  Sze  9I0  IS0  593             .00          0.0    74.1,    60.9    93.3   360.9   176.1232.3   62.0            0.0     . 3.1 33  .3  6C0   6.3   6.3  29.6
plordstion Tr.4            a.            0   65   M0   10  920  110  445           0.0           00      00     736      0.         6     30.    101.2   560.9       *.o   e.g   2.9   3.a      .      .7 60 3.
IgmIelk. It's       5.~~i   0    0    0    a3  61   10  920  335            0.20          0.0     0.0      0.0    17.1    3o.5    30.5    11.3    94.3         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   1.3   IA
P3wa4et3m Ut'              Do      0    0    0    0    0   65   l0  i3n            0.20         0.0      0.0     01.0     0.0     0.0    39.3I   33.7    40.1        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.?   00    C.5
Plantation 9.               .                       0    0    0   63   63          0. 20         0.0     0.0     6.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    30.A      0.1      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1
I.Nodt%lOslct  .637                                                                               JOG~0.    101.4   201.1   '13.9   S33.1   103.    635.   3030.S        3.6   6.1'  10  .0 306 1.6  23.3  29.5 105.4
9luntote3l  3,             De      It   t0   t0  320  340  M3   sit  352           3.60         30.     33.a    34.1   442.9    45.    M3.    30y.9  3393.3           3.3   3.3   3.3  33.6  39.3   MI.  20.310 M3
Plmt.lka 79.3       00~~f   0   10   30   30   30  340  340  430              .300               3.6    Is.7    14.    3 03.0   32.    23.4         0.        0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   6.6   0.3   0.3  24.6
l16iOniotl  irt*           Do      0    0   30   30   30  320  340  M9             0.90          0.0     0.9    33.2    33.9    32.    330.5   M9.    389.0          0.0   0.0   0.4   0.4   0.4   S.1   7.0  33.9
913.33..o fT's             No      0    0    0   l0   to   30  Sa0  330           01.10          0.0     0.0     0.0      3.6     2.0      2.9    31.3    415-       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   3.8   3.6
93m3.t3stell fr4                   0    0    0    0   30   30   s0   s0            0.20          0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     2.0      3.9     3.3     0.6        0.0   0.9   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3
plsantat1af Isis           No      0    0    0    0    0   fi0   30   20           0.20          0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      3.9     331      60       00  0  .0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.3   0.2
Plantatlan ie.6                                                     to       0 0 0 3    30  0.10  .   .0  0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     3.3      5.3       0'.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.3
C. IMIpe1o..3056    44.01   59.6   473.9   741.4   931.4  3047.6  3333.3                                                                                                  3.5   1.0   3.3  36.9  36,1  33.3  311.  339.3
Ihodat-pa0303 It                    0   3%   20   so  940  3u0  343   63            1.60         0.0   333.3    33.0   797.3 I346,9.5  1169.3  364.6  6044.4           0.0   4.1   5.4   0.5  S2.3  03.3  30.7 231.9
plant.43tn It-S            5       0    0   Is   25           340   MO  430        3.40          0.0     0.0    36.0    45.9   334.7   30.3   345.4   013.3S         0.0   0.0   0. 3.0   1.3 .   310.   33.3  J0.1
Plants,2Ion WI,                    0    0    0   Is            so  IS0  26         3.30          0.0     0.0      0.0    35.6    44.9  3SU.5   319.0    oo. I        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.9   3.6   5.4  M00 3.
93.ntatIm ft*3      9.~s     0    0    0    0   Sol  as   s0  370           0.20          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     4.3      f1.    34.5    33.0        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.5  10.9   ".11
Piantsttm 1t44             S.            0     0          0   30   35   40         0.10          0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     9.0      4.4     1.1    33.0       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.5   0.4
pia.,tettom 79-S           Me      0    0    a    0    a    0   is   So            0.70         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     4.6     4.6        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.0   0.0   6.3   0.3        D
0. tq.15034ad lm6 333tSo                                                                             0.      3.      6.         .    613.3  2337.4  3303.7  14s3.6        0.0   4.?   9.5  33.0  39.0  19.3  03.3  306.3
06.6eat 79.3               3653.                                                                        34.3    695       3.0    11.9    03.3   86.1   437.5         3.3   3.3   3.3   3.0   3.0   3.9   3.9  36.3I
3. 1563n170  Pa.  2    3    2    3    2    2    3   34    30.00        33.0    33.0    34.8    36.4    31.0    39.3    33.0   304.8          0.6   00    0.9.  0.9.   3.0   3.0   3...6.6
1,036                                368.9c430.8 .9      9    81.   3033.9  5903.3  439.3  U464.6          6.6  33.0  24.9  66.3  309.0  343.8  V1.J  330.6
'3. 3t.s#4nt mdii 3 Uatwa3 taguweotlan 33935 luwIog 40049.6 .31.3. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      sO-  -- _~9. ... .. .  04-   -
'34 Itsauksmd  t Osiwut rqomresIu wic  obptbug lawwIwig         .
430 t..smtw  $04  I 69uri3631  no  414oam wtomms 643g..
o.itatoAst mdi s 5.1133.1.4 30t31A,e sitbag law 70.
Unit Costs kalad bv 300.0 3136       lo3133



t11111011
ttastted Cat Itztf  st
*A Cos                    toe*        = Wtaisa                                           *m ftor    arme
n ,,,,S ,,,,, ~~~et,,,,Z ,                 ,,,ff , ,,,f,,,§,,,,t ,                                                                                                          ,,w,,, VW-Goo,,,,,,n , ,_,,, a,, VC, ,S ,ht,
$,~~~~~~~~~~~~vl   inrillt tltt           os9                   f                                                                           ' 4 n 9    s 0 I   4 a           0    f f                     i
-------------------             ....... .................................................................... ........................... ........... .......................
a    0    0    0    0    0    1~~~~~iei it e00    46-1  ea t*A  64    .e      .      e.e sit        *. "S.:    41         ^.r 6.r Hlt   e.e  ll
o* @ .   * * ** .......    ..... .....**^*....                                                               sr*
"2t nn $2 t 2t ! a *t$tl : "- "^§ttss,. t"".#el4"'"tott)t"41 t,-' ',', .', ',.... .......                                  ......         ................... ....
^   ~ ~ ~  U  %    %    t    t    t    $    |   1        | e     ae-t    X.-    "-*    4t-t    ^          t 4    4 | A    l       t  o.$   A           X       1  2J .6   A     41.7 fI   26  04 0.4W.
"|took-or.*                                                       4 2          2it      " two cob  'Mt    t*s .0                       t2 A    611.4   06    24    0t          .0   6.0       a 44 4 
SIMA        111.41 W  W^X       *er ;  "I.        ;242    2 "tis : ttt *@ *t    e .X.e;".
0t 449 col otZ    t                      a                                         A        A1 .            I       .       .       N       90.      000 11         12  0        .         .  41 09 M
- ! roI .                                    a "s  js s as  a; "t             3,"Y,i, O.', '":'Yi93
1.~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~ ~       ~ ~~e "            7    '   '"n        XJe utid  3010.   *":?  1"A    MA        0. 2'e     tlt.s  .t  001#t .40  MA.............. Id    '1.   !    .' *-    -.S WA J
fwv~~~~~~~~~~At ..!':   ", ansto  Me  U"  ..                      e       W   i,.,           ..  !n.': ,S.ff, w:A                'a .  1': .:!  'A4 .:! '.':  26.: ": !! ,
tSttOts        te.   .s   t.s   .#              .      4.    Gss.*  .s         se.   .*   Xtt.s  .t~~~~ ~~~~~~ As   *#.!   ts  tS.0
IWAS_                                                                    _       __V<                             _ 41_                    _       _       _       _       __lSl  *G 06 J.  1 .0 .  4.  6 C1     
|    *   E   wt!t  ":*   t-  ,",; ~~  .3  !  """*         -'
dt tS " n *_ ttxtb  _    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.411
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                            .  tb.9  _1"  _,0    mIlti _.                                      U 
Weel    01               Sett  t           4     6    t    6    t z or         M         :     80      1.1       -       .H                                            .2   I      1       6       .



sam is-
04  S  ot 0  96 a  is ' s         4t    IS  04   a   is _f tt         0  t*_   n   ft  IS  is  ar ," r,_*
..__...........
_ -~~    j  j  t  j  |  *  *  X  l"S    |   |    a   :S    t   24   *   |    s   |   tS  g  m.      *  B a-,  ::  "  S I'    SH
isne tFt; n"; nii;  "i  "i  ^i n".; ;i;  ni ;2; 4ft ii.i i^; iri 25ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Se 2    S   a  OSo4"
' t e   i'.  |  |  i  |  i  |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t mor ,    5It H L'u    i   § ,t    ,   'l  LO lS.:Kit   titi4
iOaS gem- "       I  S     t             i    3 1  1  M."         4a t 44.2M    MA   7tj  3. 04  i4.  S.  I  a  ts-   ,[J}
_Wow  _m* Awe                                             1  OIL                  .4 No   "A  MA  KA         4.0  :1  LfJa ***00e*@**at*4ss*J a*   a
I t       I                       I     n"""*XX*           Jn***tS*t4                           a4*¢
21=  K  t .. t , ,, "l ''XJ                                                           £Sa  "  M     a.  
_| tq X X a 3 * * a D t @ t ra t* |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II    a trt W  st   am   1;0  a  S tarata4lE .....#J
..... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~....  ....  ........  ........   ..
6 "_   n   t  t  t  t  t  t  t  t   "S   "~~~~~~~~~~131.4  n eOIJrnt ;W;  4r8 MAs WA nsJ   41 a 0 a . 1St  16A *FA   OPA
' tw } ! ! ! ! ! ! '. §s tXts Fj wt3i iti i' stt.6   GA   :    OA   64t tr.i    2.J  i 3A t   OAi  01.1 L
ft~ ~ 01                                                        a s           z.|    m f.4 i .   LO  fiD ii   sis 
fta  IL                                                   H    6.6 0.2~*>tt......... . **$,,t, ,,,a-!..!,,t  ............W  .W!.t._z ta_.!_t,,#,&,U,
t   t.   Z4t   nt.  t  ta t.S tF- 4 ZtJ tt t na ta tat tvt n* anHe  L 
n4w                                                                                                   Fttt.   tt, . tilt tttt*ttt  W
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4"' ==t_le            ,   _             .   S:L
t"t,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                         '    .   0t.t   tt d 05.0            #A



THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPUEhT PROJECT
Table 8: Summary Accouit by Project Ccponent
mu x 1000
villtage                           Physical         Price
forest                       Forest  tratitut                 Contingencies    Contingencies
t _ana   Afforest Agrc-For Nanegeme  .Strengt                ---......
nt      ation    estry       nt      honing     Total        I    Mount       X  Arount
1. INIS OSTS
....................
A. Civtl Work                      7800.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  13100.0  20900.0        7.0   1470.0   14.9   3108.7
8. Equipment ondWeterials         16507.0    340.0   3072.5    125.0   98140.0  29684.S         8.4   2501.4    8.4   2518.7
C. Ptantation Work                 3056.7   9731.5       0.0   1440.0        0 0   14228.2     10.0   1422.8   31.0   "417.2
0. Vehicles                        8090.0       0.0   160.0   1240.0  11530.0  22460.0          0.0       0.0    9.4   2106.3
E. Training                        6990.0    140.0   5946.5   8300.0    350.0  21726.5          2.8    608.6   13.6   2946.4
F. Technicel Assistance           19800.0      0.0   3600.0   4500.0  18000.0  45900.0          0.0       0.0    9.8   4517.4
Tet ta INSUE4T COSTS              62243.7  10211.5  142t9.0  15605.0  52820.0  1SS099.2         3.9   6002.9   12.6  19614.6
It. RE-URRE  COSTS
....................................._
A. Incremental Salaries            965.6        0.0   1980.0    720.0  16711.0  29036.6         O.S    153.6   22.3   6489.5
B. Other operating Costs          1S480.5       0.0   1886.5    794.0   7508.0  25869.0         S.0   1303.9   23.2   5991.5
._    __._......._._ ...._._____....___....__....__..................................................
Total REOJC  T COSTS              25306.1       0.0   3866.5   1S14.0  24219.0  54905.6         2.7   145T.5   22.7  12480.9
Totdt ASEkLIE COSTS               87S49.8  10211.5  18085.S  1719.0  77039.0 210004.8          3.6   7460.5   1S.3  32095.6
Phsical Contingenifes            3485.4   1021.1    999.5    203.4   1751.0   7460.5
Price Continencies              13208.3   3232.0   2631.3   2517.2  10506.8  32095.6          3.8   1229.2
;.:.   _ ..........._. ....................................................................................
Totol PROJECT cosTs              103O.4  14464.6  21716.3  19839.6  89296.8 249560.8            3.S   8689.7   12.9  32095.6
Taxs                                0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Foreign Exhange                 64543.7    692.S  1S389.4  11010.7  56.5  146319.8            2.7   3981.5
Values Stcled by 1000.0 3/91993 12:4?
CO 



8NUT*3
TNIRD FORESh IT DWLOPNET PMOJECT
Tatle 9t Suuary Accsouta bV Year
totals Inctwluding Contingencies
US S
.. . ... .. . .... ... . ........... .. ... ... ... .............. ......................... .. ..... ....... .......
93            94             95             96            97             98             99         Totat
1. INVESTHEWT COSTS
.....,..._._........
A. Clvil Uorks                            108750.0       173458.6       188641.8      173098.3       110057.3       70934.4        85011.5      90.951.9
8. Equipment and Hateriata                615392.9        62025.6       52942.7       246698.1        33828.5       87126.3       148581.8    1246595.8
C. Plantation Work                          4675.0        23660.3       46278.8        99469.9       150173.3      188389.8       204072.0      716719.1
0. Vehicles                               335357.1        92542.6      107830.1        13347.2        38661.5      227480.?        62150.2      877369.4
E. Training                                52560.7      212227.4       257115.3        73176.1       137876.8      121152.3        48804.1      902912.8
F. Technical Assistance                   310714.3      517039.4       210210.2       182007.0      2N4747.4       275072.6        40828.6    1800619.7
........ ... .... .. .. ..... ....... ..... ...... ... ... ... ... .. .. ..... ....... ........... .................. ... ... ....
Total INVESTHEUT COSTS                  1427450.0    1080953.8        863018.8        87796.7      73534s.0       970156.0      589448.3    6454168.6
I1. RECURRENT COSTS
.......... ............._
A. incremental Salaries                    69319.6       142791.5      165189.9       201220.4      216684.2       230716.9       248352.8    1274275.3
8. Other Operating Costs                   49077.7       118299.7      149130.9       163792.8      218964.9       235294.6       249880.8    1184441.5
. ........ .......... ;...... . .. .... ... . ....... .......... .. ..................... ....................................... ...
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     1183 7.3      261091.2       314320.8       365013.1      435649.1       466011.6      498233.6    2458716.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                      1545847.3   81342045.0    117M339.6    tl52809.8    1170994.1    1436167.5    1087681.9    8912885.3                                               1
.................. ...................................................................___.__ ..... __._._.................._______.____.___.............................................. _--__....... ___.____........._-v__4
2/16/1993  11:21                                                                                                                                                                          t
I;
r



OHmUTAN FOESm  rKOJECr- OrErATOt  SaiEWULEf ,:OLLA3 EORET MAIAGEfrLANNING
Qtr L.994   QtO2.1994   _ Or3,1994     Qtr4. t9B4     r. 1995    Qtr2.15       S, Qt5 m    Qt4.19
IW  tJ4an.                                 DIr Jan                            | r                       I F.  ma Nov  | an  J Mar U*   .hjn  11|l5O I   1 L
I    5tE sEtEVTON                           5w _
2    DEBIN 00CONOMCSURVEY                   6w
3    5OECJONMSURVEY                         12W
4    ESTADUSII USEItGIWI                    12.
5    ORGANSE USER GROLW                     4w                     _M.r
O    VLAGTE RAN G                                                                                            .
7    W.AGE 79AO4342                          ?                                                          f
0 DESMGN fE     I 3ETOY'                    4w  ...
9    TllWE (SURVEY/,_I .Y)                  ow
tO   FOREST RNENt>OY 1                      12w
tt DESI6N DATA MROCESSI                     Aw
12   DATArROCEOG                             4w
13    WA"I ARTWRATORYMAHAGEMEW fLAN         12w                                 Am
14    5(6LOISSIWITN  .ULEGB                  4wI
_   . .,                   .             __                      _-    .   _                                            91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~________
tE   FKALU OAKTIlAl>TOORY B  UtTO MAAOMs  nA  w                                                       4111 
i--TRAW4G (lNUdlMNTTO) '           --'-_ _        _            _                                                                    __
17   IRA*N(fANLMATA            2           1w               I
r'ageI The Char IIuaowtooe saTeqwe anw the Aartimu of ovento fore a #vn tvllag



- 55 -
.   .                   ~~~~~~~ANNEX 3
THID FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional StrensthegMngn C=monent
YEARWISE BREAK UP OF INCREMENTAL STAFF REQUIREMENT
IN EASTERN BHUTAN
PDLMHA                           1993  1224   1995  1296122712981229   2TOTL
Economist                                                1               -     1
Forest Ranger                      1            -     -     -     -      -     1
Foresters                          3      .     .     .     .                  3
Draftsman                          1         -     -     -        -      -     1
Computer Operator                  1      -     -     -     -     -      -     1
PFO - Khangma
Assistant Director                 1      -     -     -     -     -            1
DFO                                1         -     -     -        -      -     1
Forest Ranger (Engineering)        1            -     -     -     -      -     1
Forest Ranger (Inventory)          1      -     -     .     .     .            1
Forest Ranger (Research)           1      -     -     -     -     -      -     1
Research Assistant                 2      -     -     -     -     -      -     2
Forest Guards (Asst. Engineer)     -      1     1        -     -     -         2
Data Processor                     -      -     1     -     -     -            1
Cartographer                       1         -     -     -     -     -         1
Accountant                         -      1     1     -     -     -            2
Steno                              1      -     -     1     -     -      -     2
Clerks                             2      -     -     -     -     -      -     2
Drivers                            2      3     -     -     -     -      -     5
Peon                               1      -     -     -     -     -      -     1
Computer Operator                  1      -     -     -     -     -      -     1
DIVISIONAL FOREST OmFICER
DFO                                 -     -     1     1     -     - I          2
Foresters                                 2     -     -     2     -      1     5
Forestry Extension Officers (FG)   6      -     -     6     *     _      ,    12
Range Officers                      -     2     2     -     -     -      -     4
Forest Guards                      -    33      2           2     -      1    38
Depot Officers                     -      1     2     -     -     -      1     4
Depot Guards                       -      1     1     1     -     -      1     4
Drivers                            -      7     5     -     -     -      -    12
UDC (Upper Division Clerks)        1      -     -           _     _            1
LDC (Lower Division Clerks)        1      2           -     _     _      _     3
Peons                              -      1     1        -     -      -        2
TOTAL                                                   120
a. 2 nos. available
NOTE: 1. Accountants for Divisional Forest Offices are already in place.
2. Community Forest Management facilitators, winch operators and other machine
operators are casual/temporary positions and do not require government
sanction for appointment/engagement.



BHUTAN
THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
(Staff Months)
Phase 1                      Phase II
Sub-                           Sub-
SPECIALIZATION                                  Yrl Yr2  Yr3  total        Yr4  Yr5  Yr6  Yr7  total   TOTAL
M1inistry of Agriculture-PPD & DOF
Forestry Planning and Policy Economist-PPD       3    3    3      9        3    3    3    3      12      21
Mid Term Review Consultants                                 3     3                               -       3
Sub-Total                             3    3    6    12         3    3    3    3             22
Eastern Bhutan - DOF                                                                                                  o
Administrative Facilitator                        8               8                                       8
Forest Management Planning Expert                6    12    6   24                                       24
Forest Engineer                                  4      8    4   16        4                       4     20
Agroforestry Expert                              4      8    4   16        4                       4     20
Forestry Extension & Training Expert             4      6    4   14        4                       4     18
Sawmill Training Specialist                                                6    2                  8      8
Joinery Training Specialist                                                9                       9      9
Forest Research Expert                           4      2    2    B        2    2    1             5     13
Monitoring Expert                                4      1    1    6        2                       2      8
Conservation Biologist                           3                3        3                       3      6
Forest Resources Assessment Expert                      6         6                                -      6
Non-Timber Forest Products Specialist             3               3        3                       3      6
Sub-Total                            40    43  21104           37    A     1          42    146
TOTAL                                Al    A6   a   116        40A         4 i        54    170



- 57 -
BHUTAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ANE 
THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                       Cumulative          Percent of
and Ouarter       Disb=sqMnrg        Disbursements      Credit Disbursed
FY94 - 1               0.1              0.1                   1
- 2              0.1               0.2                   3
- 3              0.1               0.3                   5
- 4              0.1               0.4                   6
FY95 - 1               0.1              0.5                   8
- 2              0.1               0.6                  10
- 3              0.1               0.7                  12
- 4              0.1               0.8                  14
FY96 - 1              0.3               1.1                  18
- 2              0.2               1.3                  22
- 3              0.4               1.7                  28
- 4              0.3               2.0                  34
FY97 - 1               0.3              2.3                  38
- 2              0.2               2.5                  42
- 3              0.3               2.8                  46
- 4              0.2               3.0                  50
FY98 - 1               0.6              3.6                  60
- 2              0.6               4.2                  70
- 3              0.2               4.4                  74
- 4              0.2               4.6                  85
FY99 - 1               0.1              4.7                  87
- 2              0.2               4.9                  91
- 3              0.1               5.0                  93
- 4              0.1               5.1                  94
FYOO - 1               0.0              5.1                  94
- 2              0.0               5.1                  94
- 3              0.1               5.2                  96
- 4              0.1               5.3                  98
FY01 - 1               0.0              5.3                  98
- 2              0.1               5.4                 100



-58 -
AN=E 6
Page 1
BHITAN
3H=R EORESMR DELVELOPMEN T ESl
Keoy Performance Indicatrs
Sagona  oemst Management Q=monent
(i)   Completion of management plans and approved by Government as against the
annual work program;
(ii)   Operational plans prepared for each management unit as against the annual work
program;
(iii)  Volume of timber and fuelwood harvested, transported and sold from each
management unit as against that prescribed by the management plan;
(iv) Disposition of timber and fuelwood sold by category of buyer;
(v)   Quality of forest road construction and harvesting operations as against standards
set in management plan
village Fe    Management Cponent
(i)   Progression of user groups formed and of village forest areas assigned to user
groups;
(ii)  Progression of village management plans approved;
(iii)  Quality of village forest management as against standards set in management
plans;
(iv)  Number of user groups trained.
AWrfOneSal Componen
(i)   Progression of private mnrseries established;
(ii) Progression in production of seedlings (by species) and seedling sales to farmers;



-59.-
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(Mii) Progression of phasing out of government nurseries;
(iv) Survival rates of seedlings planted (to be detennined by sampling);
(v)   Quality and growth performance of survving seedlings (L sample).
AfforstatioEeaton Compoent
(i)   Determination of whether sites selected meet the criteria agreed to under the
project;
(ii) Actual achievement vs. planned target for the year (under different models);
(iii) Survival rates of seedlings planted (by species and site category);
(iv)  Quality and growth performance of survving seedlings.
Insal  Strengthening Cmpnt
(i)   Staff sanctioned and in post as against agreed project staffing plan;
(ii)  ConsIlttrnts personnel in field as against contractual obligation;
(iii) Progress of civil works as against anmual program target;
(iv) Progress In procurement of equipment and materials as against annual program
target.
Einanaa Perfrmance
(i) Anmnal budget request, approved budget allocation and amount actually utilized
(ii)  Annual disbursements as against disbursement projection.



- 60 -
ANNEX 
THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervislon Pta
Tentativw Dates                       Pain Activity                 Staff/Corsultant         _rson-kMfts
FY94
October 1993                      Project startup;                  Task Manager                      2.5
reporting proedures               Forester                          2.5
procurement; anmtal               Social Forester                   2.5
inplementatfon calendar           Financial Expert                  2.5
April   1994                      Supervision mission;              Task Manager                      2.5
review samusl work program        Forester                          2.5
Forest Engineer                   2.5
fin
October 1994                      Supervision mission               Task Manager                      2.5
Forester                          2.0
Social Forester                   2.5
April  1995                       Supervision mission;              Task  Mnager                      2.5
Review anmual vork                Sociat Forester                   2.5
plan                              Forest Engineer                   2.5
FY96
October 1995                      Supervision mission               Task Manager                      2.0
April 1996                        Supervision mission;              Task Manager                      2.5
Review ansal work                 Social Forester                   2.5
program
fli
October 1996                      Mid-term review mission           Task Manager                      3.0
on progress & problems            Forester                          2.5
spoefeilly trafning & TA          Social Forester                   2.5
Enmironrentalist                  2.5
April  1997                       Detalted implementation           Task Manager                      3.0
review mission                    For ster                          2.5
Social Forester                   2.5
Forest Engineer                   2.5
FY98
October 1997                      Supervision misson                Task Manager                      2.0
April   1998                      Supervision mission               Task Manager                      2.5
Revfew of anmtal work plan        Forester                          2.5
Environmentalist                  2.5
October 1998                      Supervision mission               Task Manager                      2.0
April  1999                       Supervision mission               Task Manager                      2.5
Forester                          2.5
October 1999                      Supervision mission               Task Manager                      2.0
April  2000                       Supervision mission;              Task Manager                      2.5
start project coupletion          Forester                          2.5
report                           Social Forester                    2.S
Environmentalist                  2.5



- 61 -
aHutAN                                           Table I
THtRO RES3AY OEVELOPuENT POJ5ECr
AGa3REGA7Ec 3JCRASE OF PROUCUTO  OF MAJOR FOREST PRODUCTS
rZTAL VC;vuE                         GOSS VALUE OF WCREASE I >
iodderi
yT:AR  F..ea    7-n*e  Fo-age    Ilk 1FuoIwow  r.we         Mik Lmon-  Aesi  Fww    Fibrsn  Caves Caw"
(in3)     (13)  (tou)(000)                                rta(°          NuS
1      -135     1.061    -62      0      .30   306         0      a      J       0       0      3    a
2      -566    3.395   -181       0      .125   981        0      -1      0      0           0    
3      -50    7.047   *2s4       36      -187  2.037     265      t1      0      3       0       a    14
.-2.039        7.17?   -355    -49      -449  2.074    t.t93     .1      0      1        1    28  138
5     -3.176    735    .142      399  2.111    3.443              .1      0      1        1    48  176
a     -S.130    7.430    374    916   *1.129  2.147    t           t      0      1        1    91  424
7     *6.837    7.553  i.S9            -1-4  2.183   13.462       .1      0      1        1    t10   418
a     .5.080    7.63  3.767    .       -1.118  2217   =173       .1       0      1        1    I,74   7
9     *3.269    7.790  5.941   4 227     .7 19  2.251   33J14     *1      0      1       2 t         586
10     _360      3.614  7.7C7  -=.!SI     959  .779   41208       .1    31        3       2      -3  *220
11     7467    *.=    5.273  S. A!   1643  2.910  4£56             -1    31       3       3    *51  -320
12     9.250   'O.180  S.440  ;.748    I SU   2.942   45           1     31       3 -     4      *7  .538
.3     :.930    0.0   840e   5.6331   2.185  2.901   45.064        -1    31       3       :    -38  -366
14    St.459   ':3.145   5.442  5.480    2.521  2.332   .3*7       -1    31       4       4      -2  -82
I5    t3.517   '0.099  8.492  5.542    2.974  2.919   4434         .2    31       :       4     78   .44
S6    14.074   '0.951  9.549  5.657    3.   3.105   4:52           -2    31       4       S     57   34
17    11.674    ' 1.051  8.552  S.8     2.612  3.194   43J14       -2    31       4       9     93   196
*8    t2.429    11.149  8540  -.#8t    2.734  3222   47.052       -2    31       5      17   105  102
19    12.985    11246  8.s19  6220    27  3.250   49.762           -2    31       5      41    137   -62
20     19A683   14.190  8.482   .604     4.330  4.101   S6        -2    62       7      83    145  -92
21    21.6      17.67M  8.457  6.7C6     4.767  5.108   54.124     -2    62       8      133    225   144
22    22.37    17.866  8.499  8.917    4.9"   5.163   5536         -2    82       a      176    292  288
23    26.60    25.004  8.S33   7.0 58 5.8e   7.226   568.U         -2    62       a      176    276  410
24     2a5s    25.691   8553   7.079   G6.22  7.415   563          -2    a2             178    336   52
25    31.911   3526  8a547   '.04    7.021 10.195   58em           -2    62       8      176    297  758
28    29.165    33.670  8.55   7.109    6.416  9.7n1   5.o7        -2    62       a      176    297  656
27    23346    14.342   .567  7.257    5.136  4.145   58.139      -2    62       a      *77    380  704
29     23871    14.422  8.582  7.301    S.2S   4.166   5849        -2    62       9      177    293   84
29     24.399    1.5o0  8a597  7.500    5.311  4.191   &0.=0       -2    82       9      177    375  610
30    34.701    179   8.02  7.52    7.634  5.0CM        6A4         3    221     10      177    401   773
31    366   2022  8.681   7.643    7.937  5.766   61.148           -3   357      11      179    490  726
32    36.009   20.780    755  7.504    6.362  6.005   60033        -3   493      11      179   441   796
33    4382    27553  8.764  7.447    9.642  7.963   59.72          *3   901      11      179    486   714
34     47.84   29.24  8.63  7.393   10.2  8.6S6   59.161           -3  1.343     t1    179    457  644
35     51.037   35.704   .815  7.380   1122  10.318   59.O41       .3  1.821     11      179    476  69
36    44.672   31.SU   9.011  7.491    9J?2  9.41    59.31         43  1.821     11      IS0    407  584
37    34.909   17.29  8.953  7.5#1       7.860  5.152   50.44      43  1.821     11    i80    353  854
38    35.412    17.894  8.968  7.62      7.791  5.171   61020      ;t  1321      11      160   423  840
39    35*13    :75   8.978  7.S73    7.901  .5.190  681.3          43  1.82t     12      160   396  692
40    381J3    223   8990   7.711    8.400  6.451   61.67          *:  1.821     12      180    386  974
41     16345   28464  9258   7764    3.598  S.226   6               0  1.600      1      161    425   873
42     16.065    29264  .8    7.6        3534  8.457   61.154       0   1.464     1      16     415  720
43    20251    89.192  8.446   7.302    4.455 25.467   58.415       0   1326      1      164    352  536
44     19.630    93.792  7.021   5353    4319 27.10      0.26       0    9        1       t     279  S20
45     -7.934   *e8.424  5.740  5.033    3.956 48.65    40.266      0    4768     1      32   t10  232
3.727  '".384   2.810  2.640      820 41.727   21.124       0      0      0       90    135  144
< I > FxcwuaeVW e  .1 fOatg.89 um*uae In MUUt mIN am oste



-62-                                                   8
Table 2
SHUIAk
T14IRO FORESTY oEVo rpt4N  PRwEcr
ksmto  iassmulaws. Fuse a ftos Sew  wor _  _ Fuawc
(Nu/23)
SAW4WOOO si i       tLO  EUIVALENT        FUELWOOO <2C
Fit_suo   E@OUfl Pf_SiI  isosm,   Fiu.    isv_
pnses    pruosm    arise    e        ne   Ortewa     Nil
Pronctm  109923    Fp  to  amunsawnw
in USS 36
In Ngnrua.                                                            10.244
oratara voer 2000 sdt mm totaysari awon oI
In USS 394
In Ngunams.                                                          ll.03Z
promatea rate at mrtwass oatrew gt  of dawye
sawn wood (1902-20051:2%
LESS
TRANSPORT COSTS
sea Feqnt                                                                1.400
Customs orec.ssw                                                           280
Overan *suqt to New                                                      1.120
Ovqnana freiht to pon                                                    :.240
ta,nshpwi at boro                                                          Ss
Sawmeng i* West@                                                          127
BOROER PRICE ESTIMATES
ass 30% Guamyofaterensn
oraerra.wanmat ICIF _(C,I`   or                                       6.707
Pnes to nasoan mama tool. 4Ii  sIMo,(23)                    4.7r0     5.OO3
Pnce to oem.   rmnt                                         2.14      4.23
Preoutst mnux -c&
45% eaWowooc1.
38% slab a offauW                                250
17% watet    sawoust                              73
Sbtotal                                        214
Lss5
Savmugu¶g oasis 45>                                               9      1.600
LESS
LaWng Costs                                                      646       484      23        220        n O
Truwpon to sawmdit                                               13        249       a3       113         6          43
whgd ,                                                      .     62        62       26        26         26         20
Sub-total                                                      84        794      374       361        311        226
Stumoage vau*                                                    613     1.75       279       m          311       343
Awaa toyalt teverag toe I Cum rotndw_o.                                              57                   20
or stanoaro royaltyX uro wen  o..c6o
BecaUst S gs tr ao Bil  We nee  _M_$M          trac saw  WOo muse OeSna   us wee tot uumrAoa  4ounasomsn.
C2-Onty huewood a c      vo a l      d b      es t r          w  tot_ bw msyaw.
c3a Prom Wortd 1a1. Commod  Pnee Ttnes defftd Sy lbt M tMwiawnn Vea (ULM Index tO 1092 - 205
wnsuwmi    m e t"I rase we
c42vaAue ot I (noe) oust mm of s        trom 2.s (I)o  qp   lo.
-03. incsuces osoresson. umwanse. ener. NMMaW.WiOu and labor at ditemwa rte 00ewoms0 42xamase mu Iiusae  wfts
<63 Cataycon sawnwdto                  gd         b        e    o     t  oftotosunMultiotitwas ated
4own by tree SCF (.73 Osae mere are no ateauefes



80CUL  rla-
Kootwomc Costs mad bSl tits oat  gofotostry sod Village Forset th)               sAnt
(B'009}
I       2       3        4        6       a        7       6        0      10       of       2       13 2    64      ti       to      I7       to      is      20
COSTS
k,vs6_t                        1.674   4.3t0  1i.0       t,3s5   0.72    2,356      726       0       0        0       0        0       0        0
rtmtcasts                       26       30       406     we9    60         M       300  xo          240     too      120      a0     260      360
TOTAL                        3.026    4.087    1.776    2.016   2.329    3,10?   1.086    300     240      ISO     620       60     200      360
0ENEFITS
CH4PI  FOREST ZOE                 9      *23      ns      Sys    ass    1,749   3.073    6.5s    2.A0      6I.2   tea6.e7   617tt  t11   66  t50      64   66,0s   5.5ss   is.620  16.400  18.049
IOXAOLEAF FOREST ZONE            -54    .300     407    .731    .429       460    1.424 * 6.861   11.437   16.462  16.722  65.ss3   t4.003  1a.7st  63.46   64.24   64.042  04.25S   16.250  17.*93
TOTAL                          40     42       42      .40      48    2.t66    ,470   0.280   U4.024   I .308  20.400   10.623   18.370  I0.0    16.6t4   27.306   66,006   17.162   t0.262  20.264
NET  NEFtTS                -3.074   *6.0o0   .9.402  -2.475  *-I.0     -43    2,406    7s060   13.704   10,218  20.37s  19.062   te0.0s0  6.62   166.54   17.J06   6.006   17.112  t8,25a   20.as4
Ecuifta" of t.eawm              3WS
VILLAGE FORMET MA_M
COST"
kwtn _w                        2.662   2as0      26      t.40   2.002    2.406    t.00        o 0     0        0       0        0       0        0
lecwTw                          603      062     a2       222      6 an 77  636     as       a6      s                Gs       Go6 6   a        so0
TOTAL                        2365    4.i23    202      5.676    2t20    2.00    .1609      06      s       00       00     900       0s      0s
BENEFITS
CHUMEFOREUTZONE                   a     .279   .1.075   1.6.00    46,74   .2.06S   4,608   .1261  tt.002  66,416  tS.297  64US2   64.065    4.920  M5AP7  t6.640   64,602   64.690  14,029  65.6t4
OADLEArF FOREST ZONE              0      *ss    .752     463      460      040    1.260   0.87    26.60    28.336   W6S6   26.022  20.43?   26,s60   2M0.0     2s.376  20.706   29.676  292M    20.606
TOTAL                           0  *         -6.27   -4.022   43,554  *a,t20  .2.826   4,046   26.67   25,212  2s.203   24.081   24,760   24,004   25A.41   25.s09  25,48   2a.6s2   25.310  95.407
NET SENEFATS               .2,265   .4.60S   .4.606   .3,408   .6,22   .4,724   4.060    4.643   2t.572  2S.863  2s,o05   24.800   24,00   24.S98   26.467  25,fi6   25.406   25.612  25,270  25.407
sCawii6iI0ua6od106_m        20%
_t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'t .  .   .                                  .. 
" 16
%3Q*16



mIM vomna D CtWOI  vaoecT
SOCIAL F
Economic Costs ed BDnt it. oat Aototostry and Village  Fo."t .tmungamut
(1thOOO)
21      22      23       24      25      26       21      a       29       30      31      32       33      34      35      30       37      30      39       40
COSTS
TOTAt
tlENEFATS
CHIRPINE FOREST ZONE         18.683  1.31   109.674  20,t93  t9.7e0  20.541  20.700  20.819  n2.,6   22U042  23,413  23.100  22,?1t   22e,64  22.234  22.131  10.7s8  20.990  21.14   21.261
SROADtEAF FOREST ZONE       1t.09a    16.413  1t.27s  19.2   19.403  20.841  20.869  *1.201  22.513  23.2n3  24,060  23.640  23.454  23.t90   22.02   22.760  21.238  2 .StO  22.024  35.054
TOTAL                      21,12?  21,719  22,499  22.911  22.513  23.660  23.090  24.149  25,129  20.503  27,310  28.06?  26.535  26.365   2ssoo  25.e03  24.153  24.425  24.00   36.334
NET 3ENEFITS               21.127   *1,719  22,499  22.97   22,513  232.6    23,600  24,149  25.m    26,503  27.318  28.868   26.6s3   26.365   25.90    25.00   24,103  24.425  24.e07  36.334
Ecba ct #ales d ium
VILLAGE FORE       STST
COSTS
cots
F.taM.0 cosl,
TOTAL
BENEFITS
CORE FOREST ZONE             1.0.64   10,300   18,030   17.502  19,02  t4s39   14,180  14,007  14.055   14,233  14,402  14.453  15.225  15.202  10.321  10,203  13.49   3.012   MA,W10  .3.t91
PROADLEAF FOREST ZONE        20.680   29,213  30,609   3t,194  32,403  32.54t  30,418  30,159  20,780  29.890  30,30t  29,956   30,464  30,60   32,422  32.09   3t,011  31,369  31.558  31.50-
TOTAL                      26,116   28.157  20.005  27.906   29.945  29,631   2s5.31  25,362  25,197  25.350  25,736  2s.540  20,3n3  20.417  28.0t4  20.21?  2sa14  26.023  26.K33  25.s0e
NET BENEFITS               30.178  20.157  20.0Cs  27.060  29094S  29.931  25.631  25,382  25.197  25.35B  25.730  25.s40   28,31   20.470  20.014  20.2n1  25.74  25.023  26.133  25.00
.                                                                                            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
sXw



OIhtfAM
THSM FOREOTR O6VELOPME6Kr PAtOECT
IIAaoda1 &W Eosmic Costs sad BeoWt. of Nadoga Fornsl ManagmowtWUn
,       2        8        4        6       0        7       0     S      t  1  I1       12     IS3    14       1 6    0      17      16     to      20)
FINANciALOO067  AND 8214275  8
bwalmsn                          3.116     see      406       26       26    1.878      go       0  1.05    1.080   000      0       0       0       0   gm0       0       a   1.080   1.060
PAscuet II N                      612    6as        82       502     03       632      082       0   612                                                                        612
eab-tod                         3.82V    1.482    1.204     71      ?#0   2.06        710       0  I.60    1.0s0   06       0       0       0      a   06         0      a   1,68    1.050
IAPLEMEWATION
kNsowrmel                       11,610    3,2I   3,610    7jSO   2.004    2.005   4660   1.100 2.310   1.730  1.160   1.160   1.160   1.180   1.1,0  1.100  01610   1,160   1.160   1.168
PAsourratsos                      so6      an2      7        783    1.024    1,064    1.174   1.176  1.176   1.176  1,176   1.176   1.176   t.176   1.176  1.176   1.175   t1,11    1,176   1.176
Sob-Omd                        11M2    4.412    4.426    7,609    8.100    $.M1    6,124   2,366  8.4U   2.06  2.28    2,22    2.32    2.=2      MS2  2*6   2.36   2US   2*6   2.226
TOTAL 0067                     16.461    6,404    5,713    $.60    3.616    6,176    0.443   2.866  6.07   8.066  3.30    2.226   2.32266  2 32.66 2.=   M    2.06   2.3    3087   3.37
1VC4C82MBALVALUE00UTFUT<2
83afln                           217      470     4a       460      SM3      611    6SW      Me   637    72    740    748    76          704    M       77     70      704    601   1.06
KoiSsEasI                        136      234     Sm       213      247      261     266    26    264        "          s 306 SMnS 27     376   s6 3 0         see0            on50    on0
WaffVa                           171      204     SM       306      O1t      310     822    82    3        463   460    450    408    473    477   402    487    401    480    SM
sub-tmm                          688    1,804    1.026    1.42    1.00t    1.07     1.00?   1.116  1.102   1.546  1.08    IN*7  1.506   1,012   1.820  1.044   1.060   1,37    1.06   2174
egflli                           0        0      a63      an       710     727      766    76    618   1,401  1,427   1.452   I.47    1,602   1.626  1.66    1.67    SAN0  1,610   2.303
IL UngnWmg                       106       07      101     106      l0       112      116    11S   121    100   260    211    244    247    206   263    266    260    28             V12
OL Lmoftw1?                       0       10 107            110St?  i  114   117    120   124    202   243    240    246    262            6 266      201    204    20?    277
sk*-toli                         2121    197      204      210      21       SM0     23       M     244    401   481    467    as        406      6 5 LI       Sir    06      8       648
ROYA1.TM9 <3                        64      20M      440      406     464      602      52      529   657    96?   000   1.013   1.030   1.04    0.063  1SAM    1.00    MIS1  1.126   1.66W15
TarAL                            64     1.410    1.073    1.716    1,763    1.80    1,0    1.8022  1,364  2.900  2.030    We07    3.110   3.168   *.13   3.8    8.27    2.200   3.346  4.28
lt  FINANCM. 82*0EF57           (24,660   (4,064   (.640   P.6094   p.056)  (k.37)  KG,04   (4M (3. 1I2  (1,061)  (206    76        734    822    872   (40)   04        604   (642    06
ECOOWOWM000STANDIENEFT 8
005784
bwulwmwl                         SA66     6.21    1.794       20      26    1.00        20       0  1.0    1.06    SM        0       0       0      a   Om         0      0   1.06    1.00
bmantmsUw                         SM       444      474      616     616      61 16 GI          0   612                                                                         612
Nub-told                        $.07    3.70     2.266      Gm      636    1,62       Su        0  1,68    1.06    go           0  a        0      0   SM         a      0   1I5M    1.050
IAPLEMENATIION
hwwlnuaFcl                       e.40     0.50    6.006    SAN0    4,150    4.13     3.M2   1.120 2.310   1,720  1.160   1.150   1.160   1.160   1,160  1.160   1.160   1.160   1.100   1.160
RoffboInoosh                      46?    1.07     1.64     2,17.    3.063      M 3.42 ,273   1.176  1.176   1,176  1.17r6  1,176   1.176   1,176   1,176  1,176   1.176   1,176   1.176   1.176
Nab-told.  8.063                         601    7.03      0.086    7,1 7.2    77?~  0.A0    2.M366343    2.900  2.386   2.326   2.326   2.82    2.3 2623      2.226  3.1     2*6   2*6
1OTALO08t                      12.84    11,70    03,08    0.2      7,146    6.738    7.146   2.366  6,047  83096  3,306   2.32    2.22    2.326   2.32   3.27    2.2    V.22    3.86    3.27
vNC101NSIALVMAtE0oP  UVOIT<'21.
Kh*'g. Koula Wmd vlwmg          1.07    2.642    2.50?    2.201    3,044    3.00    3,140   3,200  8.26    4,42   4.43    4,632  4,630   4.827   4,673  4,718   4,76    4.60?  4.361   $.21     to '
99g4Jj5f                 ~~       ~~~~0  0    1,67  1,067    2.037    2.117   2.106   2.27   2.343   43020  4.064   4.107  4.20    4,600  4,379  4.44    4,615   4.602  4,643   .6,24  0    . 
S. and SC.                       anmla  0  666    SM       SM       62      6so      0       686   704   1,161  S.370   1.206   1,416   1,43    1,450  1,48    IA4N    S,60    1.616   1,64    0b1,I.'j 
TOTAL                          2.06    3.44      6.307     A  6,64 6,0     6sm      8,008   0167  6.0    0.607  O,06   10.00   10,234  10.333  160032 10,M   1076   106M   11,016  14.42       S.-
1421  C0#4OU38804H1I8S          (10.667   0,321)  (3.90   (2,660)  V.040)  (2,038   (1,14   8.502  1,26    6.SM2 0.063   7.77    7,010  0.043   6.17   7.260   0346   6,60    7,120  11,00OD
Ememla eamts 04 eabi           16%
.Cs Eacto hwsstmoat kg saw.ellgmed Ia"  a.v opwoisiLo.
-MO kbdudh lbs atonslod ineomoald Idsb 04 Ibbs bs0o17 on lbs 408 VWa.
4> Aousebg toyslllof c Nu. OD per ad



IUTtAN
Tl2IRD Fo0 ESTOUEOPlEN PRtCbECT
Phactad SoaomsOaw nd bn.Io  an N          Foerst tu_aento Units
21     22     23    24    26      2      27      2      20     so    34       22     S3     24      35    38    27     s0    so        40
FWMMCAL OOrSAtADSEM W1
bwmimmt                          660      0       0     0     0    960       0      0   1,6   11.060     -       a       0      0      060         2      a     a        0
Wha,otmt                                                                                  6t2
Oub4w                           660o     0       0     0      0    66       0          t,852  1,860    60       0      0       0      0   O8       0      0     0        0
APEMBITATTIO
*_aI   a>                       1.18   1.180  1,t60  t0.1   1.10   .50  t,160  1.160  1,460  1.1t0   1.80   t60  t,160  1.,t0  t.60  t,160 4,180  4,460  S.N60    1.0
R.mntuIcume#                    1,t76  4,7S   1.,75  1.176  1.t78  t,176  4,476  t,t76  t,t76  1.17S  l,t7S  1.t75  t.,75   1.t7S  4,t?6  1.176  t,116  1t,76  *,176    1.176
10"1                           2.32$  2       M2U  2.6  26        .2Z5   U2   U2S   U2    326  2326  2,22S   22   L2S  2,26S 2.26  U26  22  22S                        22S
TOTAL COSTO                    27              x2 22              km k.27 2    U2S            2        2      2       326   k2   2.6S 8           2   2.326  21226    2.226
IT8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2INCIMENTAL VALUE OFOUt'U
Kha24o                         4,027  1.044  1,S0  11.056  1A04   *.0    I077   4      1.04 0   4.300   1.38   1.272  1.372  4.364   .30  4.36  4,401   IAN  1,412  178.07
KolEa t                         64     613   6as   620   62    M          60     612   666        60      6074    677    600         N    as60 es       61   60    07.7
tW g                            o62    046    66o  0a6s  en               s7 o   6o     674    642   640       40    063    8f6    66    664   66W    676   674  11.,462
Seab-WId                      2.466  t22 2. 2,2t6  2212 2.2o  2.20  2.272  2.257  2.O0  2s7e0  2.803  2.606  2.Z0              t 2,024  2  Z0 6 6   2.ses 20    3270,7
0.43421w                      2.234   AM362  2.374  2.366 2.4,4   MU4  2z0  2.476  2OM8    ,2    3.4" t.34?    362  3360  2.sW   %2417 3.43   0.482 0,460  400.38
Lbvtlm"g                        3s6    s62    266   367   270    372    276    27    370    442    446    4s6    407   460    602   804   606    o0n    B0   176,0o
. Lkapto2                       260    280    WI   274   277    279    282        64    387    464    462   604    607    600   6St   612   616    617   646  473.626
Sb-told                         725    724    738   744   746    754    M6        M 76    0    66 ss;     ss    6  1,004   4,06  1.011 4.04  1,021  4.226 1,020  3409,035
uAO MJESa                       4,010  1,434  1,040  14.86   .677  1.0182    706   .70  t.7s  z2272  2.266  2.6  2.s41  2.362  ts6  2.378 26   2.402 2.444    z6t04
TOTAFL                         46    4 880  4,x03 41.0%6 4.67   4,7S2  4,?72   4.7o7  4M   6,        6007  0.       6,263  6.282    31  3240,38    0,6  6, s ,42114,47,742
NET FINANCIAL BE2iF  2S         11.260  02,2    2.276  2.312 2.046    40.444  2.4          042  2.32  2.7a2  306   3,20  2.666   .6180  .066 4s,04   4.071 4,6 4,466,647
Fbto  td Me _d
CONNTS3
hawaImsot                        060      0       0     0     0 e60          0      0o  060  ,060    06o         0      0       a      0a 60        0      0     0        0
f N    ^aw4w col612
S8b_otI                          60      0       0     0      0    6so      0        o621t,060    060           0       0      0      0660         0      0      0        0
WM LEENTATION
w.m4 C>                        14.0   4,460  1.460  4.160 1.460  1.480  4,180  1.460  ,1.60   4.460   4.160  4,480  4.460   1.460   4,460  4.160  45t60   1.160  4,o60    o.0S0
rn.omosu                        1.476  4,476  1.476  1,476  1.176  1,176  1.176  4.476  4.476   1,176  1,476   4.476  1.176  1,176  1.,76  1,176  1.176  4,476  .1176    1.476
SubO-old                       2532       S 2.326   2.226 226  2.326  2.1626  2.6  2.326  2326  2.326  2.226  2.322  2.326  2.226  2.26                   6 ,2   %  228  226    2.226
TOTAL COSTS                     .276  2.826  z23Xs 2.226 .6261  32    2.2   22    2,607  3.276  S2.6  2.226  22              .22   2326 2,276 2.3O  2.26 2226    2.26
INOFIENTUA. VALUE OF OUTPU
Kh ,gKwIbawdWV g              0,2123  2226  0.6  0.406 0,446  8,46 60. 80 0366 00   6.222  8,27   811  2,247  82  2,417 6,461 8.406  2.610  .8664 4.062.062
small_                        6.616  0.762  6,24  0.276 0.636  6.06   7,062  7,444   7.,6S  0,400  0.840  9,566  9,040    .M8   ,764 0.0   OA67   0.67  0,667 1.347.661             06
S. and IL LInnWg              2.062  2.097  ait2  2127 2.142  2.168  2.474  2.486  2t196   2.60   2.678  2.907  2,e4e  2.893  2.606  2.908 2.a31   20   2.684  .004,730
TOTAL                         16,064  45.173  45,t22 16,40  ts,623 46,2 808  1.749  t6A2   46,067  22.2  20.392  20.73 20,876  20.077 24.077 21.475 21.72  24,267 24,462 3.430,x22   14
NET ECONOMIC SE4EFIT94>         11.773   2."642 12.067 13.0e4 Witt6  12.32  13.424  4804 42.06  16.912  17.,17  18,446  48.662  18.663  40.762 4.604 t4.47  10.043 40,27 3,4o.00
E.,    ruled _ of_am



(aapga.d .g)SVW5dp sSWW" M91POP" eV               am~ O W  Po"*a eq muwVwUePUPASS 03
5w5    MIS  56S           met "    e e"all    t1  swi e"   so    mis   (it" Om                   (es O'     i9t(   (mci  (VW   (st)   (em)  un"Mmosuoloaaw
eWe   mrs   as"    9sees ms   ineW's            '  i.etsi   Ws on    (am1    (            se      se      uo    (st    bed  (sg   (e)                       Ww L
1w1    LWS   art   5e5I tis  aw              go mO      e      se    $       got  (isd   (no)   ago    (s)    ha         Em1) Id       o         _ -sviasap
tess  tat   art   set tmili   awl   m              as    us   em    at    au Id tis              (LIa)   bue)    hd      hn)  Ci       o                  _ p $Om
s      (got)  (Sol)   bts)  la       se      St    as  (so  (eo   (via    bmo  (m   (asto        Cue)    se    (ad    C,   bed,  Ems)              usw 1-lew  pmu_
NY     55      5*san  on     an      on      o es  on     ee ex on    ee  on    an on     W       ow.   sos    eo         tim          Ws                  WLoo
sec    ao      as        e us        em      seo sne   m        m    em      em   am      5               0       5       5     *      5               stum eaowuin
o      e       0       a0            0       0     0     5     0     S       S    5        nt    w ten @ti    g   ms    Ottm  ae         s                 ausm"s
ea a   aWl 4u.   L      ss  ou       GUs     egm  sco    se "    t   as      (t)  se          )  (mus   beM   (w)  (i   (m               i    s      oh
eL    eowl   Ls  IL    amVs   oas*r   uo    otts  mm              toe    (MO  (MO o    o     )   (o   )    o      bo      ao      )   (So                   WADIL
o      0       5       0     5       0       5     0     0     5    0        5     5      5       0       0       0       5     5      0              (11uj,,vAoN
sON     u      sas     ses  Su       m       mm   aen  oec n      mc          W           w o    n        tobId           O i    bE  t)  *       3     e VONpm
mu      us     em      us   eV         t                       mS Se   a    ama "    *E                                  (s d   Cs)   a                sow-GP  M
us    (so)    Cm       (so)   go     ms.    em   (ea)  (usa) (goa) Cm.    (st) Cot)  (me)    a            (ass)   (mu    (noa  (g)   Eat)          wesaseslqpms
on      em       .     onee  ose     emn    se e   sn    e       s   em      an   ean     set     ems Lore   usa em t        see    ut                      W0Olf
se     onse e  e         ee  on      at      s     se      e   se   505    an    an   05              0  0                   0   *                      u a  O  _
o       *      0       0             s       e     *     o     *    o        e     e      au's   Om's   Int*   9W&   em    an           aseasss
on      a              Ia aSt        m       tt m   t aat   a1  Ous          u     s      A       9       9       t       8     a       a
u_uguop.a~muvpweussp wmoqwmpssmmj
NYU,



TMOITWO0W3)PM F M
21    22      MM         US    20    2J    2       20     so    $       23 g   o           88    so    p      s a          40
*86.8t.6                     o      0      0           0o           0o    0      0         00 o             0 o         o 0    0      0     o    o0      0       0
TRtAL                     6  o   mo   MO  M   m   M   m   MO  se0 ae0 MO  Mo  MO  M   M                                                       360    MO   MO
Nm0d lssW_Mt               70? 7t       1   740    JIM   (15)  (fi) 1.014  US?   1.60  1.743  1.020 t2        3472  1.,   1,66  1.6 SA .83162  2.912   2.671
_.Sding                   t,2i   1.411  1.416 *, *   1.01- t,OtO   1010  ,.01  I101    1.160  1.8I0  1.002 1,612   61   Ste   SW    1i5   68  1.0   low       2.t1e
_sw ldmpgsm.ibsn_0        J.211  1.4   SA 1...   1.016  1.010  1.016  1.010  I.76  1.t0  1.0   102  1.612   616   SI6   61   6$0   010   000  1.23    X163
R0VAL110411.                      in 236267    601   1"4  0    so    60    10    164 tO                  414  5O    564   229    6o    s0  ZO    275           MS
TOTAL                  36 30    O.6             3      2.161 20?  3.107 Sa4     3.0  4.622  $U  6060  4.66   3.860 3SI4M u.37   .062 6.34  6.06            7.401
NETINAMI1LEDWITS  30U   UP  056                    16   1.021  1.717 3t74? 3.10    3466  4.182 4,s00   .30   4.249  .609 3.04 3.016 4.722 504 60              7.041
rawo uENEIS 
__wwnrm                      0      0     00          0      0     0      0     0       0     a      0     0      0     0            0      0     0      0       0
fgtfb o a"  MM M                               O  MO  M   MO  M     M:  MI  M1  MO  MO  MOl  MO  M   M      30 MO  MOM                                  O M
TOTAL                    M sO  M MO  so  M   Mo  M   MS M   M0 o  M   M                                         o  MO   MS MO MOMO MO  SW   MO
OENEMO
Wsaed RS.6.SUW             60      0 "2  1.1690 16          4    (14   6e7    0    S.07  1.000.116  2748 3.132  1.69  1.800  1.809  .06   2.004  2.00    3.626
a*m1Seed          L        .410  3735 2.37         %1 3t46 2.14  2.145 s.14t 9.207  3t L66  2.012  2.   2s.60t  1.719  1.719  1.710  1.71  3.1406  VW         $."1
N         4dsnow ihea     R410  3736  L66?  .. 146   u146  .145  .146 2327  2.W7 306  L.012  Z0   2.601  1.70  1.719  1.719  1.71t  .140  t2?7  3.60e
TOTAL                  616  02   6.64 ...  4.    4;27   4272 4.?    62     6            ?1 7.01o  7.40  6,60   6.614  6.s7  .,320  G.m   347 7.2s 7.U0   t1.2o
NEI EOOSSNOS T   5.E6 0012  6,64 *--                     3 a,st2  3.012 4.017           I     M 6106    7,560  6.246 6,104  4.066  4,MO  4.,066 017 6,901  7.  ,o.m
00   @.
LA



Leas      n    aass  £sVas  gs 'ss  u,ls wo'w  aac          s    siesw in's  Uc        ee05(1(stO      Ll) ('et  (wai  W8Qait) (LWn (uWe'l                    SiilUS_
St*ts   senWn  NO"  W's   uW         fi" nW   aW   11011V  SWs  iSW2 wts                 st aes        at's    MIS   suit   its's   IMgS   $0a   JIua couooogi             ooa3
su's    i'  go"   sWe   sws : s   cst'  US'   ass's  enwe   ml*s  se9ti's   title  wA19'   "sW    1sA's  giel  OWN                       1 'a      S " Ssooo_a       muin
$t m I         fin p A  u I  "I
OR        w4 _ p am q= 3
swgs    mur  *wv; "sVW   sn,9   LIM'  NV"'  Qss's Oswsig MS  twigs ies,L   usc'  (eta's)  (ss*,  (aaWO   jet's  (esi   (lers).  bael'd                     Szn:moeuou =AMe
ssL'ss  caas'  MLsi soloe  sis'ss   UV&5 hitVI  aitVP an"U  1555  Ott,"   mu'   iant "Isa et as                se's  (Lsw   WeW   "Wa    (WI           1Sn HMsm 1OWoogWjo,
0%           0~~   a         a          a          a     us    ut    "ss    sta    sa    em          siC    us'    sfl    "s's   sic'    es'    owes   "In'           *iswo@SwOw  wiVJL
Es's    ass's  USI   "et1  it's'    eaVI WVGV    11   on          on    Ott   (ISO    (we   (sams  (sag's  (OpsL   (SoVI)  (gu    (lip)   eus)             a1hN39*I1PPuomisw
swe    air   ow'   son    so's   Wt'S  ls' xt#             eg's  oswl  so    (to0      Iu    wsz  6nea    (s  (sOm)   ("9.      0     Sw    fS         mN sNMouowiok
US      In     an    Ogu  0US         Son    cot    0eain    05C    Un                  on     UVI   oWl   AVI   SW            Os      56      U         oi.500R000 wjoa
pWctL  eA1'   5W'   iWe S        '    Ut'     We oi s       UL    WS   MS 9Ws    as'  bts't)  (eWs    (aWs   jam'd  (ee*   (WV   (uWaL                     siu m o    uamo jm 
foc's   sic'ts  sac's  sass   twat  sa's Sc' swat  c's 009  Gm(  4U's   US'S  Air           53s S'    US'S   *ul'      MIS   an'   iSLI   anO    *i3OmoIiOOwJO1
SLa'S   535    UAVI   55O    *WI   USA'S           t 55551
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~owle s "¢on    son    Sw%  e                                                         ova   o5                     l z-z  w  vtwwvmwb ig ns
55  0)  SI    SI  51  5)    SI  SI    81  SI    OS      0       5      A~~~~~~~Ut'    OM  5WS   5t     5C9    5M'    1WSUm
OR    et    As            Os9"                  t    et    IlUSt 1N        ' Wl    I                       9) - 88$1                       I
103109d  NN V13AnH3s      AOS
e~~~~~~~~~~Wnc ez Mr r ze seez r  t    z sSOsfO



-70--                    ~ANN 8
Table 6
Page 2
S g s 3!    -   e-X  
15                                      |                     1  i  fi
12 0   E3       !C4 2 3        N  Cf          a ; °3  i !3
! ~  ~    ~    ~    d |3                           C   ! |g  g}f   3 
t;                 g  e      e Z  X    ;   ;  S
%~~~ II  I                        @he3  a       02
2                32  2      22  2       ON 5   0 x    tff 
a           B9 ~fa  3     *0  *          3       
N                    I      II  a       e}  | g              I.
ei                  .5   3       .  |        3  3' 4 f   3  
1~~~~                        @3 i      31 1   1.01§1!10 



- 71 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT EROJEC1
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   The Forest Sector. A World Bank Policy Paper. September 1991.
2.   Women in Development: Bhutan. Asian Development Bank, November 1989.
3.   An Overview of the Forestry Sector of the Kingdom  of Bhutan (Draft).
Thomas R. Waggener, Forest Sector Economist. January 23, 1992.
4.   Environmental Analysis of the World Bank Bhutan Third Forestry Project.
Richard Z. Donovan, Natural Resources Specialist. June 24, 1992.
5. Bhutan Forestry III Project. Industrial Forestry Component. Swedforest Consulting.
June 1992.
6.   Bhutan Forestry m  Project.  Assessment of Industrial Forestry Component.
Michael Stewart, Forest Industry Specialist. May 1992.
7.   Forestry m Project. Social Forestry Component. Preparation Mission Report.
May 24, 1991.
8.   Forest Legislation. Report to the Royal Government of Bhutan. Barry Spergel.
FAO. July 1, 1991.
9.   Forestry HI Project Preparation Study.  Roadbank Stabilisation Component
Engineering Geology Ltd./Crouch Waterfall & Partners. December 1990.
10.  The Forest: A Protective Heritage. PPD/MOA/RGOB. Country Paper presented to
the Tenth World Forestry Congress. Paris. September 16-26, 1991.
11. Soil and Land Capability Survey. Bhutan. Tashigang and Mongar Districts. Project
RAS 79/123. FAO. Sinclair Knight & Partners Pty. Ltd/Acil International
Pty. Ltd./Coffey & Partners Pty. Ltd. July 1983.
12. First Eastern Zone Agricultural Project. Draft Appraisal Report and Working
Papers. EFAD. December 1991.
13. Government Legislation on Land and its use in Bhutan. RGOB. 1991.



-72-
Page 2
14.  The Bhutan Forest Act. His Majesty's Goverment of Bhutan. MinigL of Tmade
InIstries, oErst and Mines. 1969.
15.  Bhutan Forest Act of 1991
16.  Bhutan - Review of Forestry Legislation. Barbara Lausche, ENVAP. World Bank.
April 30, 1992.
17.  Social Forestry Rules. Royal Government of Bhutan, Department of Forestry,
Ministry of Agriculture. 1990.
18. Social Forestry Plan for Bhutan. Gary C. King. Ministry of Agriculture,
Department of Forest, FAO. June 1991.
19.  Manual of Forestry Orders (up to March 1987). Department of Forestry,
Ministry of Agriculture, Royal Government of Bhutan.
20.  Seventh Plan (1992-1997). Forestry Sub-sector. Tashigang, Mongar, Tashi Yangtse,
Samdrup Jongkhar and Lhuntshi Dzongkhags (Districts). Department of Forestry,
Mi'iistry of Agriculture.
21.  Forestry Workshop. RGOB/Helvetas. Volumes L and IL Nov. 27, Dec. 1, 1990.
22. National Accounts Statistics for Bhutan: 1980 to 1987. Dr. Ram N. LaL, Central
Statistics Office, Planning Commission, RGOB. 1990.
23.  Discussion Paper for Project Coordination Meeting for Forestry Sector Development.
Department of Forest. RGOB. July 1989.
24. First Eastern Zone Integrated Agricultural Project. Preparation Report
IFAD. May 1991.
25.  Merging Top-Down and Bottom-Up Planning and Development Strategies. Report
on the Zone IV Workshop. UNDP and Zone IV Administration. May 6-7, 1991.
26.  The Forest-Based Industries of the Kingdom of Bhutan, Their Current Status and
Development Strategy for the Seventh Five-Year Plan. UNIDO. Vienna. 1990
27.  Seventh Plan for the Renewable Natural Resources Sector-Forest Sub-Sector
(Review Draft). RGOB. Thomas R. Waggener, UNDP/FAO. March 3,1992.
28.  Master Plan for Forestry Development.  Main Report and Implementation
Programmes. RGOB. DANIDA/ADB/JAAKKO POYRY. August 15 & October 9,
1991.



- 73 -
ANNE 9
Page 3
29. Bhutan. Problems and Policies. Dr. H.N. Misra. Heritage Publishers. New Delhi.
January 1988.
30. Forestry Research in Bhutan. Bhutan Forestry Institute. WJ. van Ijssel. FAO
Workshop June 14, 1991.
31. Forestry Research in Bhutan: An Assessment and Suggestions. Jay M. Hughes.
FAO. October 16,1991.
32. Bhutan. Recent Economic Developments. South Asia Country Department 1,
World Bank. February 28, 1992.
33.  Forestry Programme Framework Volumes I, II & III. RGOB.  Miistry of
Agriculture, Department of Forestry. October 1992.



- 74 -
THIRD FORESTRY DEVLOPMENT PROJECT
Departast of Forestry Organization
Gowl                 BHUTA
LOGGIN
LPJ [tj&                                & Dmo   Lo La
DivisoOiv.                                  0
l  Oieclor  I I  patr   |im- Aff tore|
Sarbh   _    _ mow_     _                          Proe_  (G    . Taba
Chitang       rhnipu          WanFi                          Researb h
DiVIdo         Divisin   l l ivois on   |   }n   i              Divisio
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -ae 11'    1
DsHan   ipIaw*ion   t
Dw Io    I            Im                        SPECIAL PROJECTS
P Afprstationg
|WILOUFE RANGES  |                          Coreslervto
-    I  ~~Phipoo Ranlge                         .  Mawer Plan
1    Manas Range I__
t Ioad
RaFe 
cdak%WSZA2



ISRD 2401 5
DD00 1102 0'bo               Z0                           _I PHYSICAL RELIEF IN METERS
B H U TAN
THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0   9  04l:      tEl   *ooo :3ROJEC MEA
O D5 508111JS                                                                                                                                                   M.  <)*REsT "MAGMENT UNTlFMUI
'S2  UNPAVeDRO ROADS
0T0ON. COORALIO
D J1*  IONAL CWITALS
;OTHER TOWNS
t < f 080*  2  C                          X,P>, o_, RIVERS
~~2 , \ C t ) t \- f 2 0 0 X 2 _ I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATONALDOUNDAR1ES
Gm                                                                                                                               0 .,111Cr 0 BOLNOHAJG OES t U    HANG
3_3<~~~~T  ' 
1\  WANG    IPHODRANG         ~          ~         ~         ~          ~        ~         ~        (~AM R~
-DA-_X_VIllec_=_e  _DAIi
~~~~~~~~89W                                        0011                        30?                          ROD'                         120                          92 0 n30  J      09AAT I$4



