Environmental                        IV
Assessment/Analysis
Reports                       ___
Report E 0004
Bhutan-
Forestry III
Proj ect
EA Category B
Environmental Analysis
June 1992
This report has been prepared by the World Bank



DEFT
BY:
RICHARD Z. DONOVAN
NATURAL RESOURCES SPECIALIST
June 24, 1992



TABLE OF CONTENTS
LIST  OF  ACRONYMS    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
II.  BACKGROUND    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
2.1 Environental                   . . . . . . . . . .   6
2.2 Proiect CompDonents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
III. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT & FORESTRY III  . ... . . . . .  7
3.1 Relevance of Proiect to Overall RGOB Policy  . . . .  7
3.2 NGO Consultation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
3.3 le'eed fur Formal Environmental Assessme   . . . . . .
3.4 Environmental Monitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
IV. FOREST MANAGEMENT COMPONENT . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  10
4.1 Relationship to WB Forest Policy .       .11
4.2 Criteria and Process for Defininq Forest Manaeiement
Units   .......................                     12
4.3 Local Participation ..13
4.4 Biological Conservation &. . . . . . . . . 14
4.5                                       .  .  .  .  .  .  .   14
4.6 Selection of Silvicultural Strategies  . . . . . . . 15
4.7 Forest Industry in Eastern Bhutan  . . . . . . . . . 17
V. SOCIAL FORESTRY COONENTn  .  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 19
VI. AFFORESTATION COMPONENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
AF.:?ENDIX A - "DRAFT GUIDELINES FOR FOREST MONITORING IN
EAsTERN BHUTAN: PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIAn . . . . .  . . . 21
AP':ENDIX B - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY
OUTSIDE THE EASTERN REGION ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 25
2



LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADB       Asian Development Bank
BPPL      Bhutan Particleboard and Plywood, Limited
BCCL      Bhutan Carbide and Chemical
BETF      Bhutan Environmental Trust Fund
CWG       Certification Working Group
EA        Environmental Assessment
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
ETF       Environmental Trust Fund of Bhutan
GWMC      Gedo Wood Manufacturing Corporation
ITTO      International Tropical Timber Organization
NES       National Environmental Secretariat of Bhutan
PEA       Preliminary Environmental Assessment
RGOB      Royal Government of Bhutan
SDC       Swiss Development Cooperation
TMF       Tropical Moist Forest
WB        World Bank
WWF      World Wildlife Fund, U.S.
3



I. EXEUTIlVE SUMMARY
It is the principal finding of this Environmental Assessment
(EA), condiucted as part of the Third Forestry Development Project
(Forestry III) pre-appraisal and appraisal missions, that the
proposed project activities are of the highest government
priority in terms of forest conservation and management, and
economic development. Forestry III is an opportunity fcr the
Royal Government of Bhu tan (RGOB), World Bank (WB) and the Swiss
Development Corporation (SDC) to cooperate in developing
sustainable forestry alternatives for the Eastern Zone of Bhutan.
It is particularly izqpco.ta-nt that Forestry III will begin to
focus on the sustainable management of the most threatened of
Bhutan's Lorests: broadleaf forests in subtropical, warm
temperate and cool temperate climatic regions.
To ensure that environmental objectives are attained,
Forestry III will require periodic environmental monitoring,
proposed to be done by the National Environmental Secretariat
(NES), using the draft guidelines provided here (Appendix A).
The Forest Management componant of Forestry III will help
meet existing and future demands for forest products in the
Eastern Zone as well as begin to confront the conservation of
forests on a regional basis. This component should be supported
as currently planned, subject to environmental monitoring by the
National Environmental Secretariat (NES), and incorporation of
measures recommended in this EA that address:
o strengthening processes for local participation in forest
management and conservation;
o ensuring a balanced emphasis on timber vs. non-timber forest
products;
o incorporatinn of geomorphological risk assessment techniques
into forest management planning;
o initiation of critical research on conservation biology and
the management of wildlife resources;
o balancing forest industries development, with an equal
(50/50) emphasis on primary vs. secondary processing;
o development of a regional forest conservation and management
strategy which will provide a plan for natural forest
conservation in the Eastern Region; and,
o immediate support an aggressive, applied research program
which will lead to the development and implementation of
natural forest management systems for broadleaf forests.
4



The Social Forestry component is an innovative and positive
initiative. Environmental monitoring should focus on:
1)  seeking a balance between exotic and native species and
emphasizing applied research on the management and
utilization of lesser known native species;
2) minimizing or avoiding the use of chemical inputs - to date,
little or no pesticides or fertilizers have been used in
Bhutanese reforestation efforts and the project should seek
alternatives which would avoid use of such inputs;
3) careful monitoring of forest products harvesting in village
forests - though such harvesting will take place on a
relatively small scale, monitoring is still important; and,
4) ensuring that village forest management plan development
gives adequate consideration to biological conservation and
watershed management objectives.
The Afforestation component has been designed to encourage
revegetation of public forest lands. As agreed by RGOB and WB,
all afforestation efforts should take place only after they have
been subject to a technical feasability assessment using
guidelines developed by the pre-appraisal mission. For both cost
and environmental reasons, project monitoring should ensure that
a roughly 50/50 balance exists between artificial (planting or
direct seeding) and natural regeneration in all Forestry III
afforestation.
5



II. BACgGROUND
2.1 Environoental Analysis Procens
The consultant visited Bhutan from November 3 to December 4,
1991 and May 7-21 as part of the Bhutan Forestry III pre-
appraisal and appraisal process. The consultant was responsible
for conducting environmental analyses of Bhutan Forestry III.
The consultant's input focussed on:
a) review of ongoing efforts in forest conservation and
management, and related industrial development, by the
Department of Forests, National Environment Secretariat, the.
Bhutan Environmental Trust Fund and other institutions;
b) pointing out deficiencies and suggesting improvements for
all project components as described in the preparation and
pre-appraisal documents;
c) developing and incorporating appropriate environmental
measures into Forestry III (if necessary, a full-scale
"environmental program"), including collaboration with
relevant NGOs and other governmental institutions; and,
d) based on proposed activities and results of b) and c) above,
determine the need for a more detailed Environmental
Assessment, as per WB/IDA environmental guidelines.
Nost of the consultant's time in Bhutan was spent on field
trips to project sites in Eastern Bhutan. The consultant also
met with staff of the Austrian Forestry Project in Ura, the Swiss
Development Corporation (SDC)/Helvetas Forestry Development
Project in Buathang, the Gedo Wood Manufacturing Corporation
(GWMC), and Taba Research Institute.
2.2 Project Components
Forestry III includes four different project components:
o    social forestry,
o    afforestation,
o    forest management, and,
o    institutional support.
Industrial forest activities proposed for Zone IV are discussed
under the forest management component. Industrial forestry
activities originally proposed for outside Zone IV (in
preparation documents) are treated separately in Annex 1.
Following is a discussion of the proposed environmental
monitoring program for Forestry III, in addition to discussion,
conclusions and recommendations for each project component.
6



III. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT & FORESTRY III
3.1 Relevance of Project to Overall RGOB Policy
As discussed in a number of different documents, the RGOB is
placing an emphasis on the conservation of forests, while at the
same time carefully developing forest management units as
resources to meet local demand for forest products and the
creation of "sustainable" forest industries. The RGOB is also
placing importance on development of the Eastern Region, or Zone
IV, both for its own socioeconomic merits as well as being a test
case for government decentralization and social forestry.
Forestry III provides an opportunity to support all of these
efforts.
CoNCLUSIQN - The activities proposed under Forestry III are
of the highest government priority. Forestry III is an
opportunity for RGOB, WB and SDC to cooperate in developing
sustainable forest management alternatives for the most
threatened of Bhutan's forests, the broadleaf forests of the
Eastern Zone, as well as other important forest types.
3.2 NGO Consultatiol
Bhutan is among the countries with the fewest number of
national (i.e. Bhutanese) non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
involved in forestry, conservation and grassroots development.
As such, there are only a few NGO organizations with whom to
explore relationships. The Royal Society for the Protection of
Nature (RSPN) is based in Thimphu and is principally involved in
strict conservation and public information activitizs. RSPN will
be involved in some aspects of the BETF. Other than sporadic
visits, it has virtually no presence in Zone IV.
The Women's Association of Bhutan has chapters in some
communities in the Eastern Region. Forestry III will pursue
possibilities of collaborating with the local Women's Association
chapters for social forestry activities.
At the international level, the most active NGO in Zone IV
is Save the Children Foundation, U.K. (SCF-UK), which has a rural
extension program in Pemagatsel, focussing on health and gardens.
Forestry III is investigating collaboration with SCF-UK to get
assistance in training and supporting forestry extensionists,
under the Social Forestry component. The U.S. branch of SCF
currently has an agroforestry program in central Bhutan which,
though relatively new, may provide a valuable experiential base
for social forestry activities.
CONCLUSION - Forestry III is pursuing NGO initiatives with
the groups that appear to be most active in the Eastern
Region ("women's associations" and Save the Children, U.K.).
7



3.3 Need for Fornal Environmental AssessMent
Based on a review of the WB Operational Directive 4.01
(Environmental Assessment), this consultant would classify
Forestry III as a Category B project, meaning that a full
Environmental Assessment is not needed, but Environmental
Analysis is necessary. Forestry III could be a highly beneficial
project for Bhutan in terms of the environment, and specifically
forest conservation and management, pending incorporation of
adequate environmental monitoring into the project plan and
budget and follow-up on the recommendations made here for
specific project components.
CQNCLUSION - According to WB Operational Directive 4.01,
Forestry III is a Category B project, not requiring a full
Environmental Assessment, but requiring continued
environmental analysis during the remaining phases of
project development, and the incorporation of environmental
monitoring into the project plan and budget.
3.4 Environuental Lonitorinq
Environmental monitoring should occur in two ways. First,
monitoring of environmental issues should be incorporated into
internal project planning, including general project monitoring
and project evaluations. The maintenance of forest cover in Zone
IV, in terms of both quality and quantity, should be an explicit
Forestry III project objective. Second, environmental audits or
reviews must take place each year during the complete project
period (Years 1-7).
Environmental monitoring should be directly implemented by
the National Environmental Secretariat (NES). rhe Department of
Forestry and Ministry of Trade and Industry should have input
into the design of the monitoring system.
NES has an official mandate to conduct environmental impact
assessments (EIA) but has played a very limited role so far due
to the lack of technical staff and other resources. Ideally, NES
should conduct environmental reviews of all major proposed forest
resource development projects (e.g. sawmills, large secondary
processing units that will utilize over 1,000 cubic meters of
wood per year), beginning with preliminary assessments and after,
if deemed necessary, complete environmental impact assessments.
To be effective, NES should be given real force (i.e. "teeth") by
stipulating that no forestry development program should be
allowed to go ahead without prior, written approval by them and
subject to environmental monitoring, with the ability to shut
down a project when adverse impacts occur. Currently the DOF
seems to play the role of environmental watchdog in terms of
forestry project approval (e.g. a sawmill operating license).  In
the future, projects should be approved by both the DOF and NES.
8



In the short-term, NES will need assistance to:
a) conduct the periodic environmental monitoring tasks as
outlined above, and,
b)  train Bhutanese counterparts at NES and DOF to implement
environmental monitoring in relationship to forestry.
ION - Forestry III should include environmental
criteria in project monitoring and evaluation. As a pilot
activity for Bhutan, the project should incorporate annual
environmental audits of forestry activities, to be done by
NES. Preliminary guidelines for monitoring have been
developed after input from SDC, WB and Bhutanese specialists
(see Appendix A - "Draft Guidelines for Forest Monitoring in
Eastern Bhutan: Principles and Criteria"). To ensure that
forest managers understand their intent and have a role in
defining monitoring criteria, these guidelines should be
finalized during Year 1 in a workshop sponsored by NES and
WB, and attended by DOF forestry staff.
R1=MfflEN&T1ON - Conversations with NES indicate that the
Danish government, through DANIDA, would be able to fund all
consultancies and other costs related to environmental
monitoring. A formal agreement should reached between the
RGOB, DANIDA and WB to clarify costs and timing of
environmental monitoring. The fact that DANIDA will support
such an effort does not absolve WB of responsibility for
ensuring that such monitoring takes place and that
recommendations generated through monitoring are acted upon.
in order to establish and implement the monitoring program
outlined above, it is suggested that DANIDA and NES allocate
2 months per year of consultant time during Project Year 1,
and 1 person-month of consultant time for each of the
following years, a total of 9 person months.
9



IV. FOREST MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
In response to increasing pressure on the forests of the
Eastern Zone (or Zone IV), the forest management component of
Forestry III proposes multiple-use management on national forest
lands. Forest m?nagement plans in Zone IV would be completed and
implement2d for Kori La, Khaling, Bhangtar, Lingmethang South and
Lingmethang North, covering approximately 22,700 hectares.
The greatest challenge that Forestry III faces is how to
iiRlement forest management on Zone IV's national forest lands.
This is particularly urgent for broadleaf forests. According to
the Asian Development Bank (ADB) Master Plan, broadleaf forests
in Bhutan have been reduced by as much as 70% during the last 30
years and remain under pressurc.  This consultant's impression is
that there is a high level of forest degradation in the southern
2/3's of Zone IV, due to border conflicts (making control of wood
harvesting difficult, if not impossible), uncontrolled livestock
grazing, and unplanned but permitted forest uses such as fuelwood
gathering, which unfortunately often occur after silvicultural
measures have taken place as part of forest management.
Most of the consultant's effort focussed on working with the
pre-appraisal team to ensure that a sound approach to forest
management planning was incorporated into Forestry III. The
elements of a comprehensive approach for forestry planning and
management have been provided in documents such as the WB Forest
Policy, the International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO)
Guidelines for the Sustainable Management of Natural Tropical
Forests, and, the Standards of the newly-developing Forest
Stewardship Council. The Department of Forestry has been seeking
a consistent forest planning and management process. In theory,
most of the important elements (e.g. protection of biological
diversity, sustained yield production, watershed protection,
local participation, reduced impact logging) are coming into
place. Though there need to be improvements in the planning
process (suggestions below), the major challenge now is to
implement the plans. The issues related to this component are:
1) WB Policy and the location of the target forest areas;
2) what criteria should be used to determine short- and long-
term forest management area boundaries;
3) how to achieve meaningful local participation in forest
planning;
4) how to incorporate biological conservation in planning and
management;
5) how to incorporate geomorphological risk assessment as a
tool for ensuring well-planned forest roads;
10



6)  ensuring careful selection ot silvicultural strategies; and,
7)  maintaining an appropriate balance between primary and
secondary processing in the Eastern region.
A11 of the measures discussed above would be covered by
environmental monitoring and the "Draft Guidelines for Forest
Monitorinc in Eastern Bhutan: Principles and Criteria".
4.1 RelationshiD to WB Forest Policy
Forestry III envisions support for environmentallv sensitive
lcgging activities in at least four forest types: subtropical
broadleaf, chir pine, and both warm and cool temperate broadleaf.
According to the definitions in the July 1991 WB Forest Policy,
the areas where logging will occur are not "tropical moist
Forests" or TMFs. Nonetheless, because logging would take place
in some areas, a clear rationale for Forestry III involvement
must exist. Based on discussions in Bhutan, the consultant
believes that such a rationale does exist and is as follows:
a) there is constant, increasing demard for wood for domestic
consumption (e.g. fuelwood and sawtimber) and export
revenues (e.g. sawtimber for the Indian market);
b) though measures can be taken to control demand or provide
substitutes, these are not likely to have a major impact -
finding "sustainable" ways of meeting existina demand alone
is a priority; and,
c) the forest planning that is proposed places a priority on
wood production, but gives consideration to other management
objectives (e.g. wood, biological conservation, non-timber
products, watershed protection); this approach will generate
revenues and meet demands that are impossible to ignore, as
well as start important initiatives in forest conservation.
Based on the above, the forest management component is an
appropriate way to support the development of sustainable
forestry on national forest lands in the Eastern Zone of Bhutan.
Complementary forest conservation efforts are being made by the
RGOB in establishing parks, sanctuaries and other protected areas
through the BETF (partially funded by WB). The Forestry III
forest management component provides an environmentally
sensitive, production-oriented complement to these efforts.
REC~OHHEKDATIN - With adeqxate safeguards (e.g.
environmental monitoring), the Forestry III forest
management component has the potential to help the RGOB meet
existing ard future demands on the Eastern Zone's forests.
This component should be supported as currently envisioned,
subject to the incorporation of the recommendations provided
11



elsewhere in this EA.
4.2 Criteria and Process for Defining Forest Management Units
During the field work for Forestry III, many discussions
took place in relation to deciding how the boundaries of existing
forest management areas have been determined, and what the long-
term process should be. The approach that has been followed so
far in the Eastern Zone delimits forest management areas based
largely on a calculation of existing demand for forest products
(usually wood), i.e. define how much wood is needed, how many
hectares of forest were needed to produce that amount on a
sustained yield basis, and use the resulting figure to decide
management area size and boundaries. In general, this method has
restricted management areas to between 5-10,000 hectares because
such a unit would meet existing demand, and areas much larger
than this are seen to be too difficult to manage, given existing
resource and personnel limitations.
The other approach, advocated by this consultant, suggests
that the boundaries of forest management units be based on a
number of criteria including extent of existing forest cover,
watersheds, and conservation priorities, as well as demand for
forest products. Existing resource and personnel limitations
should not limit the amount of forest to be put under protection
(i.e. management). Government resource limitations presumably
will always exist. Rather than follow traditional methods of
keeping forest protected (which haven't worked well anyway),
alternative strategies must be considered. Indeed the government
has already decided to place greater reliance on local people to
manage and protect existing forest. Thus, emphasis should be
placed on identifying areas that should stay under forest cover
and management strategies developed that take into consideration
limited resources, with the philosophy of gradually intensifying
management of all the forest in the area over a period of years.
In such an approach, the existing RGOB management units in the
Eastern Zone (which tend to be identified for wood production
p.zrposes) could form a nucleus for larger forested blocks.
From a conservation viewpoint, it is important that the
dynamics of deforestation in Eastern Bhutan be recognized.
Broadleaf forests are being rapidly degraded and no sustainable
alternatives are readily apparent. Based on experience, this
consultant is convinced that a strategic effort to conserve
remaining forest cover needs to take place now. If such an
effort doesn't occur now, the RGOB will be forced later on into
the position of many other countries, making vast expenditures
later on to restore forest cover. By altering the management
strategy now, and more effectively teaming up government staff
and local people, Bhutan can perhaps avoid the path that other
countries have been forced into.
12



TON - The boundaries of existing, identified
forest management units should be re-examined during the
management planning process to ensure that, to the extent
possible, they meet a variety of criteria and not just wood
demand. Other criteria include watershed protection,
biological conservation, and socioeconomic realities (i.e.
relationship to community uses).
ON - During Project Year 2, Forestry III should
develop a strategic plan for forest conservation in Zone IV
which considers watersheds, biological conservation, and
demands for other timber and non-timber forest resources.
To do this, a Forest Resource Assessment Specialist should
be contracted to work with zonal and central level forestry
staff to develop the strategy. Terms of Reference for this
specialist are included as Appendix B.
4.3 Local Participation
It is clear that there is increasing competition for forest
resources in Bhutan. The forest is valued as a resource for
sawtimber, fuelwood, animal fodder (through grazing for yak,
cattle and sheep), medicinal and ornamental plants, and other
subsistence or cash crops (e.g. shittake mushrooms). Because of
demands on the forest, forest planning and management will
require negotiation between competing interests such as local
farmers, loggers, environmentalists, merchants, livestock
herders, and government forestry specialists. For management to
be successful, effective participation of these parties in forest
planning and manaaement must take place. Experience elsewhere
indicates that this will probably be a crucial determinant as to
whether sustainable forest management and what environmental
impacts will occur.
At the request of other members of the appraisal team, and
Bhutanese foresters, the following is a suggested process for
incorporating local people into the forest management planning
and implementation process.
PROCESS FOR LOCAL PARTICIPATION IN MANAGENENT PLANNING
SteR #1 - With the assistance of other government agency staff
and NGOs, Forestry III staff identify local leaders (both men and
women, different age groups, different occupations) living in
communities in or around proposed forest management units.
Step #2 - Using a semi-structured guide that interviewers
memorize (i.e. they are not filling out in form in the
interview), local leaders are interviewed with a focus on getting
their observations and suggestions as to forest-related problems,
calut!0lons and opportunities.
13



Step #3 - Based on the above interviews, project staff organize a
1 day workshop with the same leaders to give them feedback from
the interviews (i.e. present what the leaders said), and help the
local leaders develop a strategy for implementing solutions that
might be incorporated into forest management planning; NOTE: if a
management area is large, the unit might be divided into sectors
and various workshops might take place;
SteR #4.- After analyzing the above information, project staff
collaborate with the local leaders in organizing a regional
workshop, inviting the public to attend, to present and discuss
what has evolved out of the smaller workshops; NOTE: local
leaders, not just project staff, should be involved in presenting
the information.
All of the above occurs during the management planning. Once a
draft plan has been developed, using this input, it can be
presented in another regional workshop (as per Step #4 above).
In other situations, this process has been implemented, over a 6
month period, covering areas as large as 60,000 hectares with
populations around 15-20,000 people. The first time is time
consuming. Once an established process for participation exists,
and staff are trained in the process, it can move more quickly.
A similar process can be used to update management plans as well.
4.4 Biological Conservation & Wildlife
Forestry III has incorporated wildlife management and
conservation as part of the planning and management process for
forest management areas. The Environmental Trust Fund, partially
funded by WB, may undertake some complementary field research in
the region during the coming years. However, Forestry III must
include specific resources to conduct applied biological
research, on a plan by plan basis, for each management area.
Unfortunately,
- Wildlife assessments should take place for each
management area, coordinated when appropriate with BETF
activities. Each management area should be the subject of
primary level wildlife data collection (surveys of plants and
animals and interviews with local peop'le and government staff)
done through a combination of short-term consultants (minimum of
1 person-month of senior consultant time per management area for
each of the five proposed management areas) and the use of United
Nations volunteers. Terms of reference for a conservation
biologist to assist in this process are included as an appendix.
4.5 Geomorphologv and Forest Road Planning
The planning and construction of forest roads have
consistently been major environmental issues in forest
management. The Austrian Forestry Project in Ura has done
14



exemplary planning and design of forest roads, with a view
towards erosion control. Forestry III should take advantage of
this experience and incorporate similar measures. This means
that during management plan preparation, the area would be
subjected to a land classification procedure using
geomorphological techniques. The objective of these techniques
would be to produce in map form a classification of the terrain
in terms of its susceptibility to processes of mass wasting
(landslides) and soil erosion. The primary use of this
classification would be in assessing alignment options for access
roads which can cause the greatest environmental disturbance.
This process also allows the relative impact of other forest
activities on the landscape to also be assessed. The assessment
is comprised of three phases:
1) preparation of a base map to a suitable scale from SPOT
imagery negatives, preliminary interpretation of existing
aerial photography, and, transfer of interpreted information
onto the base map;
2) field study of the plan area to confirm or modify as
necessary the preliminary interpretation; and,
3) finalisation of the base map and preparation of thematic
maps and accompanying guidance notes.
The preparation and implementation of the first plan unit would
be used as a focus of field study for other forestry staff
earmarked for other units, and would form the basis for
preparation of a field manual explained through a workshop.
Terms of reference for the consultant specialist to assist the
RGOB in initially conduct this work and training Bhutanese
specialists to do so are attached to this document.
REECOHHENATION - Geomorphological risk assessment should be
incorporated into forest management planning as per the Austrian
Forestry Project in Ura.
4.6 Selection of Silvicultural Strategies
The forest management activities suggested in Forestry III
will include management of chir pine forests, warm temperate
broadleaf forests, cool temperate broadleaf forests, and
subtropical broadleaf forests. From a silvicultural perspective,
the chir pine forests are probably the easiest of these forests
to manage. The major question regarding chir pine forests is how
to manage them in terms of fire and lemon grass production. When
fire is controlled, there is prolific natural regeneration of
chir pine. The main issue which needs to be resolved is to find
out the most favorable regime for using prescribed burning for
lemon grass production, but in a way which doesn't retard the
growth of chir pine seedlings. It appears that after anywhere
15



from 4-7 years of growth, young chir pine can withstand fire with
minimal negative effects. But applied research needs to take
place to clarify this.
The management of broadleaf forests in Bhutan, of any type,
is not as easy as the chir pine forests. Broadleaf forests are
the target of wood harvesting which, according to the information
which this consultant has seen, is not sustainable. Most of the
current operations either: a) ignore the fact that the broadleaf
forest is gradually being degraded, b) accept forest degradation
as a reality given the paucity of silvicultural alternatives and
the need for satisfying short-term demands, c) suggest
clearfelling, followed by reforestation with local or exotic
species (e.g. Gedo Wood Manufacturing Corporation, GWMC) as the
solution, or, d) suggest enrichment planting with either local or
exotic species (e.g. Cupressus sp. on cool temperate broadleaf
stands) as the solution.
As can be noted from the above, natural regeneration has
usually been ignored or discarded as a silvicultural alternative
for the management of broadleaf forests. Natural regeneration in
the broadleaf forests has been plagued throughout Bhutan by the
use of these forests for livestock grazing. Uncontrolled grazing
will continue to eliminate any opportunity for natural
regeneration to be tested as a way of regenerating valuable
broadleaf forests or species (e.g. Ouercus sp. or Castanopsis
sp.) in national forest lands.  Currently, the only documented
research on natural regeneration in broadleaf forests is being
done, on a very small scale, by the Taba Research Institute in
the subtropical forests of the Gedo region.  The difficulties
presented by the absence of experience with natural regeneration
techniques are compounded by the basic absence of information on
forest ecology for almost all of Bhutan's forests. Without
applied research on natural regeneration, and basic forest
ecology, most projects will probably continue to follow the paths
taken by either GWMC (clearfelling of subtropical broadleaf
forest, followed by very high cost reforestation with
predominantly local species) or the RGOB (Cupressus sp.
enrichment planting in cool broadleaf forest). Either of these
two strategies will change the ecological structure of the
relevant forests, resulting in reduced biological diversity.
RECQMMENflAIIN - Forestry III should support applied research
which will determine how many years young chir pine natural
regeneration needs to be protected before prescribed burning can
be utilized for encouraging lemon grass production.
RECOMNENDATION - It is imperative that Forestry III immediately
undertake an applied research program to develop natural forest
management systems for warm temperate, cool temperate and
subtropical broadleaf forests. The focus of this work should be
to research ways of obtaining high quality natural regeneration
16



(e.g. through the use of silvicultural measures and/or grazing
control). This work should capitalize on the Taba Research
Institute experience in the Gedo region. In additior, Forestry
III should support research in forest ecology for all forest
types in Zone IV (e.g. literature searches, permanent plots), in
particular the ecological role and potential uses of species such
as Svmplocus sR. and DaphneDhylum so..
4.7 Forest Industry in Eastern Bhutan
In the initial preparation document prepared by Swedforest,
not enough emphasis had been placed on secondary (vs. primary),
value-added processing. The proposed industrial component
initially favored increased primary level processing capacity
(i.e. sawmills development), without adequately analyzing
possibilities for supporting gradual, but immediate, improvements
towards higher quality primary processina and increased "value
added" secondary processing (joinery, furniture, etc.). From an
environmental perspective, the suggestions for the Eastern Zone
(Chapter 5) from the latest "Draft Bhutan Forestry III Industrial
Forestry Component, Report from Final Preparation Mission" (June
1992) are an improvement. More detail has been provided in the
report and more emphasis has been placed on secondary processing.
However, this consultant still has concerns regarding the
activities proposed by Swedforest, though more in terms of
practical implementation than environmental impact. For example,
there is no discussion of the possibilities of improving existing
mills.  Also, Swedforest believes that only (this author's
emphasis) "one year will be required for procuring the sawmills
and establishing the organization" (p.65). Contrary to the major
pricing policy issues that remain to be addressed in Bhutan, and
the RGOB's stated emphasis on meeting local needs first, the
report also states that "all [lumber] sales will be at best
possible prices, e.g. export prices" (p.65). Because some
practical alternatives seem to be ignored, plans are not
presented for the process of setting up the sawmills or
establishing the central processing unit, and some assumptions
unsupported, this consultant still questions the realism of the
Swedforest proposals.
The environmental issues presented by the Swedforest
proposals for the Eastern Zone are:
o ensuring appropriate size, number and phasing of the
sawmills to be acquired; and,
o ensuring that adequate emphasis is placed on secondary
(value-added) processing.
As per discussions with other members o  the appraisal team, the
final choice of sawmill type will ultimately be made by the
17



entrepeneurs who will own and manage them. Forestry III will
support only the use of mobile sawmills (where there is road
access), which utilize roughly 2800 cubic meters of logs per
year, or portable sawmills (where there is no road access) which
utilize under 600 cubic meters of logs per year. The Swedforest
proposes that 6 mobile sawmills be purchased, but no number of
pertabie sawmills is suggested.
RZQQEMBa2H2ON - To ensure that the demand for raw material
doesn't outstrip forest management capabilities, final approval
of sawmill purchase should be given by NES and the Department of
Forestry.
P*E~~ATMN E I- Project staff and NES should annually review
investments in primary and secondary processing equipment and
training to ensure that a relatively equal balance exists between
the them.
18



V. SOCIAL FORESTRY COMPONENT
The social forestry component has two subcomponents: on-farm
agroforestry and village forests. In general, this component is
well conceived and has positive environmental implications. By
stressing the education, training and participation of villagers
and government staff in agroforestry and the development of
village forest management units, broad-based forest conservation
and management is being encouraged.
In spite of the above, there are activities in the social
forestry component that will need to be monitored from an
environmental perspective. These issues are incorporated into
the environmental monitoring program. The issues include:
a) ensuring that species selection for agroforestry work places
adequate emphasis on the use of native (vs. exotic)
species -- native species typically have a greater value in
terms of wildlife conservation and are less of a threat as
biological pests;
b) minimal and/or careful use of chemical inputs (e.g.
fertilizers or pesticides) in tree nurseries or outplantings
- Bhutanese nurserics have traditionally minimized the use
of such inputs and, for environmental reasons, Forestry III
should be careful to consider all ramifications before
proposing or funding any such inputs;
c)  giving ample consideration to watershed management and
biological conservation as management objectives for village
forest plans; and,
d)  ensuring that harvesting techniques in village forests are
just as carefully planned and implemented as harvesting
activities in the Forest Management component.
RECONJIENDATION 19 - The Social Forestry component is an
innovative and positive environmental initiative.
Environmental monitoring program should focus on: 1) species
selection, 2) the potential use of chemical inputs, 3) the
quality of forest products harvesting in village forests,
and 4) ensuring that village forest management plan
development gives adequate consideration to biological
conservation and watershed management objectives.
19



VI. AFFORESTATION CONPONENT
The afforestation component has been a challenge for the
Forestry III pre-appraisal. At times, the RGOB proposals have
tended to take a "green the hillsides" approach, i.e. proposing
tree planting without clear objectives and/or for the sake of
showing visible forestry results. In some cases, the
afforestation techniques proposed were inappropriate or mistaken
given the specific management objective. For example, tree
planting for watershed protection purposes was proposed in areas
where prolific natural regeneration existed and already was a
more effective soil erosion measure than a tree plantation. In
another case, RGOB foresters proposed slope stabilization tree
plantings for areas undergoing severe, mass movement (e.g-
slumps, landslides, etc.) caused by poor road design or bad road
construction. In such cases, erosion problems were already so
severe that revegetation through afforestation would have had
little or no impact and would be a poor expenditure of resources.
In response to this, the pre-appraisal team and Bhutanese
forestry specialists developed guidelines for deciding when and
where afforestation was appropriate, and with which techniques.
From an environmental perspective, the main issue will be to
monitor the implementation of these guidelines to ensure that
afforestation is used appropriately and that a balance exists
between natural regeneration and tree planting.
RECOMEN .TTON IS - Prior to implementation, all
afforestation efforts should be evaluated using the
guidelines which have been developed. Project monitoring
should ensure that a roughly 50/50 balance in investments in
planting (artificial regeneration) and natural regeneration
takes place.
20



APPENDIX A - DRAFT GUIDELINES FOR FOREST MONITORING IN EASTERN
BHUTAN: PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA"
BACKGROUND
To date there has been no broadly accepted set of evaluation
criteria applicable in all of the different conditions under
which forest management takes place in Bhutan. As a minimum
acceptable interim measure, the criteria detailed below assess
the sustainability and impacts of forestry operations and are to
be used for independent forest monitoring by the National
Environment Secretariat (NES), with support from World Bank,
DANIDA, and agencies of the Royal Government of Bhutan. lhese
criteria are based on the following broad principles: 1)
maintenance of environmental functions, including watershed
stability and biological conservation, 2) sustained yield
production of all forest products, and 3) positive impact on the
well being of local communities. The evaluation criteria are in
accord with relevant forest management guidelines issued by the
IUCN and the ITTO. However, the criteria require -flexibility in
application.
In utilizing the criteria below, two biases should be
explicitly noted. The first is in favor of conditions and
activities that maintain natural forest; this reflects the fact
that natural forests managed for sustained timber production can
also provide numerous other benefits (watershed protection,
conservation of biological diversity, various non-timber forest
products), and that these multiple benefits can safeguard the
forest from competing land uses. The second bias reflects the
vital role local communities have to play in sustainable forest
management; thus conditions and activities that involve or
otherwise benefit local communities are considered especially
favorable. The assumption is that communities must understand
and support the objectives and processes of forest management for
it to be successful. If local support doesn't exist, manegement
will fail and destructive environmental practices will occur.
EVALUATION CH1ECKLIST
I. General
a. Name of management unit:
b. Location:
c. Size:
d. Type of forest:
e. Ownership: (government, company, community, other)
f. Managed by: (government, company, community, other)
g. Year in which logging operations began:
h. Do operations include road building:
i. Principal mode of timber extraction (mechanical or manual):
j. Is annual allowable cut set by area or volume:
21



k. Are areas of exceptional biodiversity known to exist in
vicinity:
1. What local communities are involved with/affected by
forestry activities:
For each of the following criteria, indicate the number which
most applies:
0 = not applicable
1 = strongly unfavorable
2 = more unfavorable than favorable
3 = more favorable than unfavorable
4 = strongly favorable
II. Natural Forest ma'agemert
a. Completed management plan is being followed (whether in
national or village forest areas).
b. Management unit boundaries are reasonable in terms of
watershed protection and biological conservation.
c. Wildlife taken into consideration in management plan and
practices.
d. Planning maps and forest work plan are available at adequate
scale (e.g. 1:5,000 to 1:15,000 scale).
e. H-arvesting rate, felling cycle and rotation length have been
set and are being followed within conservative limits as
indicated by the mean annual increment which determines the
annual allowable cut.
f. Rationale behind silvicultural prescriptions is well-
documented and reasonable, attempts to maintain the
structure of the natural forest, and prescriptions are being
adhered to in the field.
g. Every effort been made to minimize the construcftion and/or
length of logging roads.
h. For logging roads, topographic maps have been prepared well
before road construction that detail areas specified for
all-weather harvesting or dry-weather only, locations of
extraction roads, loading ramps, main skidtrails, drainage
structures, and protected areas.
i. Road system has been pre-planned using geomorphological risk
assessment techniques, placing roads generally on ridges or
side slopes under 20-25 degrees.
j. Trees to be harvested are pre-marked accordinglv.
R.yilsd Draft   3Jf  24. 1992



k. Future harvest trees have been marked prior to felling.
1. Non-timber forest products have been taken into
consideration, prior and subsequent to felling.
m. At least 75 percent of marked crcp trees undamaged by
harvesting operations, as determined by post-logging
inventory within 6 months after harvest.
n. Sustained yield is beinq monitored by an established,
adequate network of representative, permanent, continuous
inventory plots.
O. In-migration and other activities (e.g. fuelwood cuttinc,
grazing, mining) along logging roads is controlled.
p. Impact of logging on stream flow sedimentation.
q. No timber harvesting within 10 m of stream courses.
r. No timber harvesting with skidders on slopes exceeding 30%
slope.
s. No cable yarding on slopes exceeding 75% slope.
t. Directional felling used whenever possible (i.e. trees
felled parallel to direction of skidding).
u. No road fill slopes reaching stream courses.
v. Front end of logs lifted off ground during mechanical
skidding.
w. Road surfaces well drained, culverts large enough to avoid
ponding, water bars installed where road abandoned.
x. Logging- camps well located and impacts contrciled.
IV. Social Forestry
a. Species selection for reforestation is well-documented and
with local community input.
b. Native species are emphasized.
c. Biological and watershed conservation objectives are
considered in village forest management planning.
d. Careful, discriminate use of cheiical inputs (fertilizers
and herbicides) in tree nurseries or outplanting.
Ruvimad Drujt   s:~  24. 1992   23



V.   Afforeion
a. Roughly equal emphasis is being given to natural
regeneration and tree plantinq as afforestation techniques.
b. Prior to reveqetation, site-specific analysis of the
proposed afforestation technique is conducted using criteria
developed under Forestry III.
VI1.       it_ Intrci
a. Local communities have an opportunity to participate in (no
just review) all forest management activities (e.g. setting
management objectives, planning, inventories, harvesting).
b. Local communities' traditional rights to own, manage or use
resources (fuelwood, sawtimber, and non-timber resources) in
the forest have been considered.
c. Boundaries are recognized by communities and readily
available in a map form.
d. Community access to forest resources is being monitored and
regulated with their collaboration.
a. Any proposed major forestry operations (e.g. logging)
described to communities in public meetings in advance.
f. Employment offered first refusal by local communities under
prevailing wages and other benefits.
g. Document other benefits to local communities.
Rawllud lafat   Jun. 24. 19     24



APPENDIX B - ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY
OUTSIDE THE EASTERN REGION
SARY
This consultant's concerns about proposed industrial
forestry activities outside the Eastern Region, as articulated in
the "Preliminary Environmental Analysis", were that:
a)  the proposed modern sawmill for the Chumi Valley near
Bunthang presents a number of environmental issues that
cannot be easily or confidently resolved; undertaking such
an effort would also likely divert resources away from the
industrial forestry challenges awaiting the project in the
Eastern Zone; and,
b) the proposed interventions in the Gedo region did not place
adequate emphasis on the need for drastic changes in the
current forest resource =-nagement strategy for industries
in the region; the main issue was (and continues to be) that
the current strategy far long-term wood fiber supply is
extremely unlikely tc be successful and is ecologically
unsound.
This consultant continues to have these same concerns. The
proposal for a modern sawmill in the Chumi Valley ignores policy
issues that restrict more efficient and higher quality wood
processing in Bhutan (e.g. the nature of the export market to
India, as addressed in the Waggoner pre-appraisal report).
Rather than encouraging gradual, private sector-motivated
improvements in wood processing efficiency, the proposed sawmill
represents a top-down approach is suggested which is unrealistic,
has proven ineffective in other countries, and naively assumes
that existing wood industries can be shut down and that ample
wood resources can be easily obtained from the forest.
The proposed interveations in the Gedu area make some sense.
The suggestion by Swedforest, to conduct a 3 month consultancy to
identiAy potential concession areas would seem appropriate, but
other drastic measures must be considered: 1) the RGOB should
support much intensified natural forest management and plantation
research in the region; and 2) the RGOB must consider that
"downsizing" of one of the operations as an alternative.
Bnunthang modern Sawmill Proposal
In the document it is suggested that the four different
sawmills in the Bumthang area join forces to purchase and operate
a modern, more efficient sawmill. A number of important
questions must be asked. First, though the existing sawmill
owners might be interested, the consultant continues to be quite
skeptical of a venture that would propose much higher quality
Rewise  Draft    J- D4. 1992    25



sawmilling in a business environment that inhibits or
disincentives higher quality primary processing. Without
addressing broader policy issues first, major investments in a
large, modern sawmill would seem quite risky.
Second, at an operational level, it still seems unlikely
(and risky to assume) that four independent sawmill owners would
"'dump" their existing low-risk, commercially lucrative, Indian-
made horizontal bandsaw mills and merge their operations, even if
the new modern sawmill was financed with ultra-concessionary
financing and both raw material and markets were guaranteed.
From a conservationist point of view, there also seems to be
a naive assumption in the preparation document that, through the
greater efficiency promised by a modern sawmill, either a) such a
modern sawmill would reduce or "freeze" the total amount of raw
material needed from the forest, or b) there is more than enough
raw material out there to supply such a mill. In fact, this
consultant believes that a larger mill would ultimately require
more raw material to make it commercial than all of the current
operations combined (i.e. the owners would want it to operate
more than one shift). This might again put the Bhutanese in the
situation of having to respond to great private sector pressure
for wood supply, just as they are currently being forced to do in
the Gedo region and other parts of Bhutan.  if the RGOB wishes to
encourage higher quality processing, the consultant once again
suggests a conservative, business-like approach that combines a
change in government policies (as per the Waggonner report) with
investment incentives for more efficient processing with
technical assistance.
- Forestry III should not support the construction
of a molern sawmill in the Chumi Valley because: a) current
pricing policies make such a venture very risky, b) it is
unlikely existing sawmills can or would be shut down, c) an
overly optimistic assessment of forest management capabilities
has been made, and d) the amount of time, technical assistance
and training needed to correct the above problems are beyond the
capacity of the Forestry III project.
Concession Mar.aaement Proposal for Gedo
The swedforest document proposes assistance for improving
forest management for wood processing industries in the Gedu
region, including Gedu Wood Manufacturing Corporation, Bhutan
Board Products, Ltd. and Bhutan Carbide & Chemicals, Ltd. Due to
time limitations, this consultant visited on the GWMC operations
in November 1991.
As discussed in the PEA, the current forestry operations at
GWMC are not sustainable. Large non-contiguous clearcuts
(minimum of 50 hectares each) in broadleaf forests are being done
Raud Draft JUM 24. 192         26



with cable yarding systems; areas are then reforested with
predominantly native species. On the positive side, soil
disturbance through logging is minimized because, with one very
visible exception along the road to Phuntsholing, harvesting
takes place on relatively gently slopes and using appropriate
logging technology -- cable yarders loaned to private logging
contractors by GWMC   Also, GWMC should be applauded for the
reforestation it has done; replanting is roughly on schedule and
they have attempted to utilize species native to the region.
However, the current clearfelling by GWMC is clearly a "last
resort". The "selection cum improvement" natural forest
management system previously used by GWMC was not providing
either the volume or quality of wood they needed or at an
acceptable cost. The selection cum improvement system also
didn't appear to be promising silviculturally because, unlike the
areas currently being fenced and reforested, cattle grazing in
logged areas was not controlled, eliminating potentially valuable
natural regeneration.
This consultant does not see the current reforestation as
the medium- or long-term answer to GWMC wood supplies. Already,
GWMC staff are projecting that the maintenance of the current
plantations will have to continue far into the future, much
longer than originally projected and at a higher cost.
Ultimately, the consultant believes that such costs may prove too
much for GWHC to bear, potentially leading towards plantation
abandonment. Based on informal observations made by this
consultant and a World Bank forester on the pre-appraisal team
(A. Banerjee), it would appear that the reforestation effort is
also hampered by a very limited applied research effort that has
not adequately considered applicable experiences from similar
regions in nearby India or elsewhere.
Experience from similar forests elsewhere would indicate
that the clearcuts are a problem biologically. The areas where
harvesting occurs are areas where selective logging has taken
place previously; some disturbance had already occurred. Also,
so far, the clearcuts are not contiguous and the logged areas are
not being cleared after for agriculture or human settlements.
However, no one h4s sy=tematically studied the ecology of these
forests and we are almost completely ignorant of the biological
consequences of the current logging. Clearcuts of this size in
subtropical or warm temperate broadleaf forests elsewhere have
had negative biological consequences.
From either biological or silvicultural viewpoints, neither
GWMC, RGOB or anyone else is conducting sufficient research to
help understand the consequences, or alternatives, for the
current operations in the Gedo region. Through the Taba Forestry
Research Institute, some extremely important initial work on
natural regene'r''   * u v.    (   _ir  e hc   , c. o_+A,v0-
PAVLM*d DrtM  Z_M 24, 1992      27



this is a small effort and needs to be expanded. The consultant
is not aware of any applicable biological research either planned
for or currently being conducted in the region.
Ultimately, in the Gedo region, the RGOB faces a difficult
situation that is representative of the challenges that it will
confront in virtually all the other broadleaf areas of Bhutan,
indeed in all forest areas, if the current policies continue.
Industries have been established at such a scale as to be
untenable in comparison to their "sustainable" raw material
supply. Understandably, once established, the industries place
great pressure on the government to provide raw material. In the
case of Gedo, because the goverrment encouraged and facilitated
the development of the facilities, it feels it must help. Yet it
has no "sustainable" answer in terms of forest management in the
broadleaf areas other than high cost, probably unsustainable
reforestation, and other alternatives aren't being developed.
Support for the Taba Institute research on natural regeneration
might provide results, but this will take time.
Given the type of forest, the inability to ensure
sustainable production, and complicating social and economic
factors (e.g. controlling grazing in natural forest), it is
possible that the combined fiber demands of GWMC, BCCL and BPPL
are just too much for the region. The only viable solutions
would appear to be: a) downsizing one of the three operations, b)
a resurgence in natural forest management efforts by the
companies with RGOB assistance (which will require larger blocks
of forest over a long period of time than under the current
clearfelling system, thus more fencing, more management
complications, etc.); c) bringing fiber at a higher cost from
other sources throughout Bhutan; or, d) a more productive
reforestation scheme, with a concommitent acceptance that
clearfelling is unavoidable to meet the wood fiber demands.
The government has said it wants both "sustainable forestry"
and private sector development. The question is not whether or
not industrial forestry development will occur or whether RGOB
should be involved. It is a question of what role the RGOB
wishes to play. Forestry III should be an effort that focuses on
"sustainable" industrial develoDment in Zone IV and should not
dilute its focus by taking on initiatives outside that region.
RECOMMENDATION - The situation in Gedu is a difficult one for the
World Bank and RGOB. As initial supporters of industrial
forestry development in Gedu, it would seem appropriate that the
RGOB and WB collaborate in seeking an answer to forest management
problems in the region. The suggestion by Swedforest, to conduct
a 3 month consultancy to identify potential concession areas
would seem appropriate, but it is only a start. Two other
measures must be considered. First, the RGOB should design and
seek support for continued natural forest management and
flvS.d Draft   _ a 24. 1992     28



plantation research in the region. Second, the RGOB must
consider that ultimately, it may have to restrict raw material
supply to one of the three operations, ultimately leading towards
a "downusizing" of one of the operations. Drastic measures are
needed. Unless addressed now, the current operations will
continue to be a problem for the government.
R d  Dtt   J   24, 1992         29



