Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 
25207
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(
COFN-03190; IDA-25330
)
ON 
A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 
SDR3.9  MILLION (US$ 5.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO 
THE 
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
FOR 
 THE THIRD FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 28, 2003
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their 
official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Page  2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 
)
Currency Unit 
 =
Nugltrum
  
Nu 31.39
 =
US$  
1.00 (1994)
US$ 
1.00
 =
Nu 48.07 (2002)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1
     
June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APM
Assistance Project Manager
BLC
Bhutan Logging Corporation
CFM
Community Forest Management
CFMU
Community Forest Management Unit
CFMP
Community Forest Management Plan
cft
Cubic foot
DCA
Development Credit Agreement
DFO
Divisional Forest Officer
DO
Development Objective
DOFS
Department of Forest Services
EA
Environmental Assessment
FDCL
Forest Development Corporation Ltd.
FIDI
Forestry Institutional Development Initiative
FMU
Forest Management Unit
FRDD
Forest Resource Development Division
FSC
Forest Stewardship Council
FYP
Five Year Plan
ICR
Implementation Completion Report
IDA
International Development Agency
MOA
Ministry of Agriculture
MTR
Mid-Term Review
NWFP
Non-wood forest products (also non-timber forest products, NTFP)
PCP
Pilot Community Plantation
PCR
Project Completion Report
PFO
Project Facilitation Office, Project Facilitation Officer
PPD
Policy and Planning Division
PSR
Project Status Report
RIL    
Reduced Impact Logging
RGOB
Royal Government of Bhutan
SAR
Staff Appraisal Repport
SDC
Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation
TA
Technical Assistance
TFDP
Third Forestry Development Project
TTL
Task Team Leader
 
Page  3
Vice President: 
Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:
Marilou Jane D. Uy
Sector Manager/Director:
Adolfo Brizzi/Constance Bernard
 
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:
Peter Jipp
 
Page  4
BHUTAN
Third Forestry Development Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
1
2. Principal Performance Ratings
1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
13
6. Sustainability
14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
15
8. Lessons Learned
17
9. Partner Comments
18
10. Additional Information
20
Annex 1.  Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
21
Annex 2.  Project Costs and Financing
25
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
27
Annex 4.  Bank Inputs
59
Annex 5.  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
62
Annex 6.  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
63
Annex 7.  List of Supporting Documents
64
 
Page  5
Project ID:
 
P009582
 
Project Name:
 
Third Forestry Development Project
Team Leader:
 
Peter Jipp
TL Unit:
 
SASRD
ICR Type:
 
Core ICR
Report Date: 
May 14, 2003
1.  Project Data
Name:
Third Forestry Development Project
L/C/TF Number:
COFN-03190; IDA-25330
Country
/
Department
:
BHUTAN
Region:
South Asia Regional 
Office
Sector/subsector
:
Forestry (90%); General public administration sector (10%)
KEY DATES
Original
Revised/Actual
PCD:
06/30/1990
Effective:
08/01/1993
01/24/1994
Appraisal:
04/24/1992
MTR:
12/05/1996
Approval:
07/06/1993
Closing:
06/30/2002
06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency
:
RGOB/MIN. OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners:
Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation (US$ 4.1 million)
STAFF
Current
At Appraisal
Vice President:
Mieko Nishimizu
Cosmas Robless (Acting VP)
Country Manager
:
Marilou Jane D. Uy
Sector Manager:
Adolfo Brizzi
Team Leader at ICR:
Peter Jipp
S. Freiberg
ICR Primary Author:
Peter Jipp; Erich Oberholzer; 
Frederick Swartzendruber; Jane 
Carter; Arati Belle; Madhavan 
Balachandran; Barry Deren
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly 
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:
S
Sustainability:
L
Institutional Development Impact:
M
Bank Performance:
U
Borrower Performance:
S
QAG (if available)
ICR
Quality at Entry:
S
S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
Yes
Page  6
3.  Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1
Original Objective:
The objectives of the Third Forestry Development Project (TFDP) were (a) to support the Royal 
Government of Bhutan’s (RGOB) efforts to develop an approach for sustainable protection, management 
and use of its forest resources in line with its national development plans; (b) to that end, to establish in the 
Project Area, the necessary mechanisms for (i) carrying out sustainable forest management in selected 
government forest areas; (ii) involvement of local people in the rehabilitation of degraded forest areas and 
their subsequent management; (iii) integration of trees into farming systems thereby improving the viability 
of the local economy; (iv) introduction of a criteria-based approach to afforestation and reforestation(A/R); 
and (v) strengthening of the government’s capacity for effective and efficient implementation of such 
programs.
The relevance of the project's development objectives is not diminished despite the relatively long period of 
implementation (8 years), although many changes in sectoral policy were implemented much later than 
originally envisioned and the anticipated impacts have thus been delayed. Throughout much of the period 
ROGB has adopted an overly cautious approach to implementation (especially with regard to social 
forestry and private sector involvement) and has applying the same caution to introducing legislative 
change. Social forestry, in particular, was introduced only on a pilot basis during the project, yet this 
approach now appears to have been embraced fully during the preparation of the 9th Five Year Plan (which 
began in July, 2002). The future development of social forestry is linked to a broader process of 
decentralization that has gained momentum in the past few years. 
Consistent with 9th FYP initiatives to expand private sector involvement in forestry, recent dialogue 
between government and a newly formed Wood-Based Industries Association has led to clarifications of the 
treatment of trees on private land within the Land Act and rationalization of other sector policies (the 
formation of this association was catalyzed by IDF grant support; TF 27371). Many other obstacles to 
expanding private sector engagement were identified through a recent Bank sponsored review of the private 
sector in Bhutan. The current CAS emphasizes a knowledge management role for IDA in Bhutan, but also 
leaves open "options for financing high-priority projects in social and physical infrastructure and forestry 
that have a high payoff for improving the living standards of the poor and private sector development." 
The newly approved Bank policy for forests incorporates a major pillar aimed at harnessing the potential of 
forests to reduce poverty. When measured against current standards for addressing poverty the present 
project is not focused enough on this issue, neither in its objectives nor in its monitoring efforts. While 
contributions to rural livelihoods may well have come from improved availability of fuelwood, fodder and 
other minor forest products these impacts were not systematically measured during implementation. The 
project has also not fully addressed cross sectoral issues such as the linkages between forests and livestock 
grazing, which a livelihoods approach would have brought out more clearly. The 9th FYP and the 
sub-sectoral plan for renewable natural resources management promises a greater degree of integration in 
this regard and will form the basis of the PRSP for Bhutan in the coming years. 
Despite delays due to the government’s overly cautious approach toward project implementation the 
development impacts and outcomes of the present project are expected to substantially contribute to rural 
poverty reduction in the future and certainly have provided impetus to the proposed shift toward 
decentralized natural resources management and the continued expansion of social forestry in Bhutan. This 
was the third co-financed IDA/SDC operation in the forestry sector in Bhutan (although none has been 
national in scope). Previous operations focused on plantation forestry in southern Bhutan (Forestry I), and 
a salvage logging operation in conifer forests of western Bhutan affected by disease (Forestry II). SDC was 
- 2 -
Page  7
the major source of financing for Forestry II, with an IDA credit of SDR 0.8 million against 8 million 
Swiss Francs granted by SDC, and in retrospect terming this modest IDA credit “Forestry II” was 
somewhat misleading. SDC financed approximately 3.8 Million USD or 40% of the total project costs in 
TFDP and was able to top up their contribution at mid-term due to their flexible financing arrangements. 
SDC has extensive experience in Bhutan’s forest sector, and provided continuous high quality technical 
expertise throughout project implementation (especially on crucial topics such as logging on steep slopes 
and building eco-friendly forest access roads).
3.2
Revised Objective:
The project development objectives were not significantly changed during implementation.
3.3
Original Components:
FOREST MANAGEMENT ($3,700,000): to introduce sustainable, scientific management of, and timber 
supply from, natural forests in Eastern Bhutan as an alternative to the present ad-hoc, unsustainable 
utilization of forests (a) Establish five Forest Management Units (FMUs) (b) Construct environmentally 
sound logging roads (c) Introduce/apply environmentally sound logging practices (d) Introduce/apply 
environmentally sound regeneration techniques (e) Develop active research models to evaluate 
sustainability of harvesting operations.
SOCIAL FORESTRY (
$1,540,000
): to introduce a sustainable mechanism for village communities to 
manage forest resources near their villages; to establish community forest plantations near villages on 
highly degraded land; and to introduce trees into private farming systems (a) Establish one Community 
Forest Management Unit (CFMU) in each of the six Dzongkhags [reduced to three CFMUs following 
Dec.1998 supervision] (b) Each CFMU to start implementing an approved Community Forest Management 
Plan (CFMP) (c) establish 600 ha of pilot community plantations (d) Private farmers to plant trees on their 
land in selected Gewogs (e) Train 120 private farmers to produce seedlings for market sale.
AFFORESTATION/REFORESTATION (
$360,000)
: to test alternative methods for effective regeneration 
on selected degraded government forest land (a) Treat about 450 ha to test man-assisted natural 
regeneration as a viable regeneration method (b) Plant about 650 ha to test planting as a viable regeneration 
method (c) Seed about 30 ha to test direct seeding as a viable regeneration method. 
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING (
$3,300,000
): to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of 
Agriculture and its Forest Services Division to develop Bhutan’s forest sector policy, plan investments in 
the sector, and manage sector and project activities efficiently and effectively (a) Provide required staff, 
vehicles and equipment to PFO (b) Provide required incremental staff, management space, living quarters 
and transportation to District Forest Offices in six Dzongkhags (c) Provide required incremental staff, 
equipment and transportation to Forest Services Division and MOA (d) Train managers and staff, as well 
as project beneficiaries, in accordance with the domestic and overseas training plans.
3.4
Revised Components:
At the MTR it was agreed that SDC would provide additional funding for TA; the revised figures for 
funding by component were:
Component
   
Cost
NATIONAL FOREST MANAGEMENT
$3,700,000
SOCIAL FORESTRY
$1,500,000
AFFORESTATION/REFORESTATION
$  400,000
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING    
$3,800,000
- 3 -
Page  8
3.5
Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory (consistent with the QAG review rating). Though not presented this 
way in the SAR, TFDP can be understood as an early demonstration of reduced impact logging (RIL) in 
the South Asia Region, and perhaps the only such example financed by the Bank during the l990s. Many 
difficulties are inherent in this type of operation, requiring careful tradeoffs of commercial and practical 
considerations against complex ecological factors (which often take many years to become apparent). 
Given the state of knowledge at the time the project was prepared, the concept was innovative and the 
design was generally sound. The environmental classification of the project Category B was defensible 
though reportedly criticized by some environmental groups, and the plan for independent annual audits by 
the National Environment Commission was appropriate and specifically commended by the IDA Board of 
Directors (but also see section 7.5 below).
Lessons learned from the Bank’s earlier forestry operations in Bhutan had pointed to the low chances of 
success for afforestation and reforestation investments. When inclusion of an afforestation component 
became an important condition for RGOB support of the project, this component was limited to less than 
5% of the total investment. A forest industry (sawmilling and processing) component developed with 
Swedish assistance during preparation was excluded from the final TFDP package; as the commercial 
viability of this component was uncertain, and the project environmental assessment had also raised 
concerns. 
The institutional strengthening component made unrealistic assumptions concerning the ability of physical 
inputs (vehicles, computers etc.) plus training courses to bring about changes in institutional structures and 
relationships. In retrospect, the national policy reform agenda was not well supported by the Bank given the 
sub-national focus of the operation, and some elements of the policy dialogue received insufficient attention 
until the arrival of an advisor financed by an IDF grant in 2000.
4.  Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1  
Outcome/achievement of objective:
From the standpoint of project outcomes, and achievement of development objectives as given in the SAR, 
the project is rated marginally 
Satisfactory
. This rating is justified by specific, but relatively slow progress 
during the project period in (i) forest management planning, (ii) monitoring and evaluation, (iii) 
decentralization of social forestry programs, (iv) development of staff skills in planning and social forestry, 
(v) widespread adoption of environmentally friendly road construction techniques, and (vi) supportive, 
though delayed, policy reforms including curtailing subsidies for rural timber consumers and the adoption 
of the Social Forestry Rules (2000). In the case of social forestry, in particular, the search for consensus 
took significantly longer than anticipated at SAR, but through an extended process of internal debate the 
Bhutanese have achieved a sense of accomplishment and a fundamental paradigm shift in this important 
field.
The adoption of planned management to replace ad hoc approaches to resource utilization that prevailed in 
the pre-project period is directly attributable to project investments.  The inclusion of direct community 
participation in Forest Management Unit planning was introduced  by TFDP. Project investments 
facilitated an important shift of responsibility for programs in community forest management and 
afforestation from the central Department of Forest Services to the district (Dzongkhag) administrations (to 
make them more responsive and accountable to local needs and management objectives).  Project 
investments were consistent with a broad national initiative toward decentralization that coincided with the 
final years of project implementation, but given the sub-national focus of the project, the project’s direct 
influence on these decisions is unclear.
- 4 -
Page  9
During implementation a ban on export of unprocessed logs (1999), and a subsequent ban on most 
semi-finished products (2000) significantly altered the supply and demand situation. The log export ban 
included a clause allowing export only if no domestic market could be found. To date the new policies have 
not fully accomplished their stated objectives (to spur the growth of domestic wood processing and increase 
the availability of wood for domestic consumption). Despite efforts to increase availability of wood, 
domestic demand has risen faster than supply during the project period. Rapid growth in softwood prices 
and consumption volumes are largely driven by government purchases for planned construction projects 
(schools, health facilities, and hydroelectric installations). 
A significant amount (16%) of hardwood produced in Forest Management Units (FMUs) supported by 
TFDP failed to find either a domestic market (due partly to local preference, but also to insufficient and 
outdated processing equipment) or an export market (due to long delays allowing maximum time for 
identification of a domestic buyer). As a result large volumes of harvested hardwood were left decaying in 
depots (only 84% of harvested timber was sold during the entire project period). Key elements of the social 
forestry and institutional strengthening components also fell short of original expectations (as described in 
section 4.2 below). 
As summarized in the IDA Memorandum and Recommendation to the Board of Directors, the purpose of 
TFDP was to make forestry in eastern Bhutan “financially self-sustaining through introduction of a viable 
management regime..., beneficiary participation through village forest management..., and rationalizing the 
economic and financial incentive framework through changes in price policy and forest legislation.” If the 
project had been designed and prepared as a learning process built around testing the commercial viability 
and ecological sustainability of reduced impact forestry approaches, the subsequent supervision effort of 
IDA and SDC could have focused more sharply on knowledge and financial outcomes and helped the 
Borrower to better understand the conditions under which logging could, or could not be carried out in a 
financially sustainable manner in eastern Bhutan.
4.2  
Outputs by components:
FOREST MANAGEMENT - 
This component is rated 
Satisfactory 
with caveats.
 
Prior to the project 
very little was known about management of Bhutan’s broadleaf forests, and the complexity of this task was 
underestimated at preparation (though the project’s EA had flagged many of the key issues). By project 
closing, a significant body of applied research and practical experience has been developed on this aspect, 
which will play an important role in future management of the sector.  Against the target of five FMUs, by 
the end of the project three FMUs were in operation, and the other two had recently approved management 
plans, with plant and equipment either nearly or fully in place, but logging operations were not yet initiated. 
Techniques such as use of cable cranes are dictated by steep slopes in the project area, and were in use in 
certain areas prior to the project. However, TFDP has refined these techniques and made reduced impact 
logging (RIL) a standard aspect of management plans for all FMUs. 
Environmental standards and practices for the construction of logging roads have improved significantly, 
though quality control and required maintenance to prevent erosion have been uneven. In much of the 
project area, steep slopes make road construction inherently difficult from an environmental standpoint, 
though the project has demonstrated that much damage can be avoided if proper procedures are adopted 
and followed-up. The road-building subcomponent offered broader rural development benefits than 
anticipated, but sustaining these investments requires further clarification on financing recurrent costs (this 
was also a recommendation of the Forestry II ICR).  Fiscal transfers from the treasury may be needed to 
assure maintenance of forest roads. 
- 5 -
Page  10
With strong support from the TA component, project staff carried out practical applied research whose 
findings directly contributed to improvement of felling practices and regeneration methods. These improved 
methods were shared with private contractors engaged in harvesting operations and impacts are now 
measured with improved formats for monitoring and evaluation of FMU operations. This addresses a key 
issue raised in the project’s environmental assessment, and later picked up by environmental groups 
worried about Bank-financed logging in Bhutan. 
Management plans now focus on selective logging (in patches and small groups) followed by natural 
regeneration and protection from grazing with enrichment planting with selected species. This is in contrast 
to pre-project efforts that lacked grazing protection after logging and called for clear-felling followed by 
afforestation. Earlier techniques were associated with reduced biological diversity in the eastern temperate 
forests. Field staff of the Forest Department as well as FDCL have demonstrated strong commitment to 
project objectives despite the low priority which was given to training opportunities for the FDCL cadre. 
FDCL site management still lacks coordination among contractors responsible for felling and removing 
logs to depots (supervision missions have recommended a single contract be issued for both harvest and 
transport to ensure coordination and avoid dangerous log stacking on steep slopes and narrow forest roads). 
Government procedures still require central approval of many tasks which should be handled locally, this 
significantly and unnecessarily lengthens the time required for action. Many procedures will need to be 
substantially revised as the RGOB’s decentralization program accelerates and shifts more decision 
authority to the Dzongkhags during the 9th FYP.
More significantly, the project has been unable to fully resolve the primary threat to forest regeneration in 
the project area, cattle grazing, which destroys seedlings of valuable timber species before they can become 
successfully established. The project demonstrated that where grazing can be controlled, natural 
regeneration is by far the most cost-effective solution, and also minimizes the biodiversity concerns raised 
in the EA; however, implementing effective grazing controls in the absence of national grazing policy 
reform has proven difficult given the well established customary rights of forest grazing, absentee cattle 
owners, and slow progress in the social forestry component (see below). Effective community involvement 
in forest management was and is understood as a critical prerequisite for control of grazing, but at project 
closing demonstrating the practical effectiveness of this principle as a means of assuring regeneration, 
especially in areas with a high cattle population, has been elusive.
SOCIAL FORESTRY
 - Progress  in this component is rated marginally 
Unsatisfactory
.
 
During project 
implementation the overall target for CFMUs was reduced and ultimately met, but delays in policy 
formulation and field implementation lowered the impact of these efforts in the near-term. Several factors 
combined to limit progress in this component during the project period including the following; a) draft 
social forestry rules, developed before the project became effective, were not finally notified until the year 
2000; b) delegation of authority for approving community forest management plans to Dzongkhag level 
was never operationalized; c) a consistent message from the DoFS to implementing field staff was to 
proceed with caution and apply a “go-slow” approach; d) project design underestimated the complexity of 
land tenure arrangements (especially customary rights), which resulted in difficulties in making land 
available for social forestry activities. In combination these factors resulted in frustrated communities, 
de-motivated staff, and very limited direct engagement of communities in forest management during the 
project period. 
At project closing, four CFMUs had been established, totaling 568 ha. Three are in Mongar district and 
one in Pema Gatshel; none have been established in the remaining districts. At project closing, Participatory 
Community Plantations totaling 182 ha had been established following approval of plans. Under the new 
social forestry rules of 2000, no distinction will be made between community forests and community 
- 6 -
Page  11
plantations, thus these two categories will be combined. 
A large number of seedlings were distributed over the life of the project (reportedly more than 2.4 million) 
nearly three-quarters of these were produced by private nurseries. The training component for private 
nursery operators thus appears satisfactory. But the ICR mission was concerned that the continuing policy 
of free distribution of seedlings could undermine the sustainability of private nurseries established during 
the project (some 31 were active at project closing). During negotiations IDA and RGOB had reached 
agreement on privatization of seedling production and distribution, but while the production aspect was 
fully implemented during the project, distribution has yet to be placed on a commercial basis.
In assessing this component, and its contribution to forest management in Bhutan, it is important to draw 
clear distinctions at two levels. First, at the 
output
 level, it is important to distinguish between the quite 
satisfactory efforts of the staff engaged in field implementation and the general lack of institutional support 
and commitment from Thimphu throughout most of the project period. Second, at the 
outcome
 level, it is 
necessary to distinguish between the initial skepticism of the DoFS/MoA toward social forestry and their 
subsequent decision to embrace community participation in forest management more fully. Unfortunately 
this new consensus came late in the project cycle and so the real benefits of staff training and changes in the 
legal framework will be realized in the coming years. Slow implementation and other factors noted above 
justify the rating of marginally unsatisfactory for this component, however the 
overall
 rating of project 
outcomes (marginally satisfactory) is influenced in part by the fact that there is now substantial evidence of 
a paradigm shift in relation to community involvement in forest management in Bhutan. 
AFFORESTATION/REFORESTATION - 
This component is rated 
Unsatisfactory. 
The unsuccessful 
outcome in this component is linked to very limited community involvement, an issue that could have been 
addressed if the social forestry component had developed as envisioned. Targets were unrealistically high 
given the fact that many areas devoid of trees are currently being used by adjacent communities for 
competing purposes (lemon grass collection, grazing, etc.). Criteria-based site selection (including an 
assessment of community commitment to afforestation on the designated site) was introduced only in the 
last years of implementation even though it was agreed at preparation. According to PCR data, some 410 
ha were treated under natural regeneration, 906 ha were planted with seedlings, and 195 ha were treated 
with direct seeding. While planting targets appear to have been achieved, it is important to note that 
plantings on many sites have failed even where repeated replanting occurred. The Department of Forest 
Services’ own review (2000) showed that plantings between 1997-1999 had produced unacceptably low 
survival rates (causes of failure were not fully quantified but included fire and grazing), although there was 
some indication in the PCR that there was an improvement in survival of recent plantings, the ICR team 
was unable to verify these figures. 
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - 
This component is rated
 Satisfactory
 with caveats. Crucial 
skills acquired by the PFO and field staff in FMU planning, financial management, and social forestry 
through in-country training, and coaching conducted by the technical assistance team fully met the 
threshold established by the development objective. Vehicles, equipment, and infrastructure, though in some 
cases delayed, were also procured during implementation as planned. During early project years the 
Technical Assistance left much to be desired, so at the MTR the decision was made to re-bid the TA 
contract, and the contractor selected for the second half of the project performed very well, producing 
timely and high quality outputs and providing excellent coaching and mentoring of PFO and DOFS field 
staff. The contributions to social forestry and forest management planning are widely recognized as 
extremely important contributors to the ongoing process of decentralization and the planned expansion of 
community involvement in forest management in the years ahead.
- 7 -
Page  12
While domestic training was relatively well designed and delivered, the overseas training program was 
handicapped during the first half of the project by poor performance of the contractor. This aspect 
improved following the MTR but as a  whole the component suffered from the lack of a thorough, upfront 
training needs assessment, and inadequate Bank supervision in the early years. At preparation too little 
attention was given to identifying and analyzing the institutional structures and relationships.  While 
supervision missions made concerted efforts to ensure that government criteria for selection of candidates 
were in line with project priorities, these efforts were not uniformly successful. The program would have 
benefited from greater attention to post-training assessment, and streamlined screening and approval 
procedures for candidates.  Key staff, who received the intensive overseas training, were assigned to related 
posts upon their return, but this was not true of all staff who received international training and in a few 
cases overseas courses appeared to be of marginal utility for the project.  The PCR report provides a fairly 
complete list of training financed by TFDP. While the project’s direct inputs and outputs have been 
achieved, some concerns remain regarding weak coordination and delegation between DoFS and the PFO. 
In hindsight the decision to exclude FDCL staff from the training program was a mistake but toward the 
end of the project period FDCL staff were included directly in training events. 
4.3  
Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In the SAR, dated June 1993, economic analysis was conducted for the three "directly productive" 
components of the project - Forest Management,  Afforestation/Reforestation, and Social Forestry. The 
SAR did not document the underlying assumptions and structure of the projections nor clearly present a 
"without project" baseline. At the time of the ICR, the team found very little consistent monitoring and poor 
data availability. Of the four components, progress in the afforestation/reforestation and institutional 
development components were measured mainly through input indicators. Slow progress in the social 
forestry component meant that at the end of the project there was still very little to measure in economic 
terms (beyond community plantation and private nursery seedling production). Given the data limitations 
that evaluators confronted, ICR economic analysis for the largest component, Forest Management, has 
been subject to sensitivity analysis to systematically review the impact of various assumptions. 
Forest Management Component. 
The economic evaluation of the forest management component was 
based on the following data and adjustments:
-- The analysis period was forty years, as adopted by the SAR analysis.
-- All values are in 1992 constant values for comparison with the SAR analysis.
-- Benefits included timber, poles and fuelwood production from the three FMUs operating at the time of 
project closing and from the two remaining FMUs, whose production will develop over the next few years 
in line with capacity installed under the project.  Figures for production of timber up to 2002 were based on 
data provided by RGOB to the ICR mission.  Estimates of fuelwood and pole production were based on an 
average breakdown of harvested volume of 40 percent timber, 30 percent poles and 30 percent fuelwood 
(as per existing management plans).  Projected production post 2002 was based on FMU management 
plans for the five areas.  Embedded in this projection is the assessment that project investments in this 
component have in balance satisfactorily provided the capacity to achieve management objectives.
-- In total, as consequence of the project, harvested areas will in future approach management plan 
prescriptions (approximately 130 hectares per annum), attaining management targets by 2012 (PY19).  
Total volume harvested annually within the five management areas would, by this time, amount to 
approximately 35,500 cubic meters.
- 8 -
Page  13
-- Problems with the disposal of depot timber have been noted by the ICR team and incorporated within the 
analysis up to the time of project closing.  These problems appear to be easing as Government begins to 
appreciate the consequences of its regulatory interventions.  For the future the base case the analysis 
assumed that marketing policies will no longer significantly interfere with product marketing.  The analysis 
used the same series of disposal rates for both the with- and without-project scenarios.
-- Product benefits were valued at their border price equivalents at the depot.  Given a lack of data, these 
values were estimated as falling within ranges bracketed by domestic auction prices and comparable values 
of products marketed in Bangladesh, which has been considered as a representative regional market for 
Bhutanese timber.  In re-estimating the component’s expected economic return the evaluation used the 
lower end of the range of values.  It should be noted that at the low end of this range the economic value of 
timber, in 1992 constant values, is more than twice the value used in the analysis of the SAR 
(approximately nu 25/cft).
-- Improved grazing and increases in the harvesting of other forest products, although conceivable benefits 
arising from improved forest management, have not been considered owing to the lack of data.
-- The domestic cost components of investment and inputs were adjusted with a Standard Conversion 
Factor of 0.85.  The foreign exchange content of costs was considered to have realized expectations made 
at the time of the appraisal (approximately 65 percent).
-- These component costs include expenditures incurred for institutional support.
-- Recurrent costs were assumed to continue at end-of-project levels.  As privatization measures proceed, 
however, these costs may very well decline in real terms over the remaining period of the analysis.
-- In the scenario without the project it is assumed as in the presentation in the SAR that unmanaged 
harvesting would degrade the opportunity to extract timber of appreciable value over a forty-year period.  
Recent work in Bhutan suggests that this extraction may be equivalent to about 40% of potential AAC 
obtainable under proper management; although the actual figure could be higher.  The base case uses 40% 
of potential AAC for the without project scenario.  In the with project scenario, the benefit stream includes 
the AAC of the prescribed management plus the standing stock in PY 40.  It was not assumed that the 
standing stock in PY40 would be larger than the initial stock.
Based on the forgoing, the economic rate of return of the forest management unit component is re-estimated 
at about 17 percent, as compared to the appraisal’s initial assessment of 16 percent.   It should be noted, 
however, that comparisons to the SAR might not be desirable.  It is not apparent, for example, how the 
SAR’s analysis compares to the project as approved.   Component costs in the SAR analysis appear to be 
nearly half of the base costs reported in the SAR’s project description and financing tables. And as 
previously mentioned, the SAR appeared to have underestimated the value of timber produced from the 
management units.  As previously noted, the SAR does not present a "without project" scenario against 
which the initial base project rates of return were estimated.  
The sensitivity of the ICR estimated ERR to variations in the parameters used in the re-evaluation was 
tested.  The base re-evaluation ERR for the component is not very sensitive to changes in the base 
economic prices used to value timber, poles and fuelwood, nor to changes in the harvesting prescriptions 
used to estimate future production from the management units.  The future disposal rate of harvested 
volumes could critically affect this outcome, but only if the rate falls consistently below 55 percent.   
Changes in the future recurrent costs would need to be substantially higher and recorded to have a critical 
- 9 -
Page  14
impact.  Without project assumptions are not likely to be critical unless unmanaged harvesting is already in 
excess of the prescribed annual allowable cut.  In this case, however, one would also need to consider 
possible downstream environmental costs that would partly offset the value of such unmanaged harvesting.  
The evaluation has not considered the benefits of any environmental externalities attending prescribed 
forest management, such as improvements in fire control and reductions in damage associated with 
landslides.  Also, through proper management, growing stock in the FMUs is likely to be higher than under 
unmanaged conditions.  Due to lack of sufficient data, the analysis has not incorporated this factor into the 
estimation of rates of return.  Neither has forest growth been taken into account (AAC in FMU plans are 
treated as static throughout the repayment period). If allowances for growth were however considered, the 
rates of return would likely be higher than presented here. It therefore appears that as long as management 
objectives are largely achieved, and there is not much doubt that project investments have adequately 
provided the capacity to achieve prescribed management objectives, and the Government continue to 
improve the regulatory framework, the economic return to the investments in the FMUs will be robustly 
satisfactory
Social Forestry Component. 
This component was composed of two subcomponents Village Forests 
Management and Agroforestry. The assessment of the village forest management sub-component followed 
a logic similar to the analysis applied to the FMUs: with the project a gradual deterioration of forest 
resources in unmanaged areas would be replaced by managed harvests within the area of the VFM.  
Restocking of degraded areas would also increase total future resources with the project.  Given actual 
project costs and the areas established under the project, the economic return to this subcomponent was 
estimated at 5 percent. 
A lack of data has frustrated a full evaluation of the agro-forestry sub-component of the social forestry 
component.  Based on the areas of CFMUs and PCP established under the project and estimates of timber, 
poles and fuelwood expected to be produced from trees planted on private lands, the economic return to this 
subcomponent was estimated at less than 2 percent.  Other increases to farm income realized as a result of 
adopting agro-forestry practices might be possible and would improve this assessment; however, project 
files provided no evidence for estimating possible impacts on the efficiency of farm production.  Given 
these results (for the separate subcomponents), the overall economic return to the social forestry component 
has been estimated at about 3 percent.  This estimation is quite conservative in the sense that it excludes the 
proposed expansion of areas under community management in future years and focuses only on returns to 
areas established during the project period using project resources. Although unsatisfactory in itself, this 
outcome is sufficient to assure that the return to the project, excluding the costs of institutional 
strengthening would exceed 12 percent.  This is substantially lower than the returns estimated at the time of 
the SAR (29%).
Afforestation/ Reforestation Component.
 As a final exercise for the sake of completeness, an evaluation 
of the Afforestation/Reforestation component was undertaken on the basis of reported completed works and 
expenditures.  The evaluation applied an average survival rate of 36 percent, which was estimated using 
recent survey data (RGOB 2000).  The return to this component was estimated at about 7 percent (as 
against the SAR estimate of 13%). The activities of the component included a significant reliance on 
natural regeneration, a relatively inexpensive means of forest restocking, which might explain a somewhat 
higher than expected return to the component, despite the low survival rate. 
Overall Economic Assessment. 
On the basis of these returns to individual components, the expected 
overall economic return to the project, excluding the costs of institutional strengthening, has been 
re-estimated to be approximately 14 percent (Table 21). With the inclusion of the institutional 
strengthening component, the economic return to the project as whole would be about 11 percent if the 
- 10 -
Page  15
returns to the afforestation and social forestry components were both not worse than zero. That is, as long 
as the economic returns to the other two “directly productive” project components are both greater than 
zero (as preliminary analysis indicates), then the economic return to the project as a whole will in all 
likelihood remain satisfactory.  The critical factors are the disposal rate of hardwood timber and the 
performance of the social forestry component, as the relative size of the afforestation component in terms of 
total project costs is too small for that component to have a significant influence on overall project 
performance.  
Among the issues relevant to the economic analysis are the differential domestic demand patterns for hard 
and soft wood and lags/delays in the whole process from planning to sale. During the project period the 
domestic demand for wood increased due largely to government purchases, and FMU's were seen as a 
sustainable source to meet this demand. It was later recognized that demand was skewed toward conifer 
logs over hardwoods while the majority of the output from project supported FMUs was of hardwood. In a 
mistaken effort to dispose of all wood, regardless of species or quality, auctioned lots of wood were neither 
graded nor sorted. This practice diminished  their attractiveness to potential buyers and likely exerted 
downward pressure on prices. So while in aggregate, demand for wood is high, demand for hardwood was 
low, which combined with delays in responding to market signals has led to an accumulation of wood 
stockpiled in depots. A calculation of the opportunity cost of this wood was estimated at Nu. 626,171. 
While excess supply can be sold through special auctions to the external market, that process is extremely 
lengthy resulting in significant deterioration in the quality of the wood before it is offered on the external 
market. 
In the post project period the government has taken steps to boost domestic demand such as amending the 
Bhutan schedule of rates (impacting government procurement) and encouraging greater capacity in the 
wood processing industry and continues its efforts to rationalize policies in dialogue with the wood 
industries association. The success of these steps in addressing the aforementioned shortcomings is yet to 
be proven. Government institutions (army, schools, Dzongs etc.) form the largest buyer group so it is 
possible that demand for hardwoods can be increased by such policy interventions. In the longer term 
however a reliance on non-market mechanisms may decrease incentives for the private wood-processing 
industry to invest in new technology and badly needed processing capacity.
Finally, the length of the project implementation period during which significant policy and institutional 
changes occurred,  lack of data tracking trends in economic benefits, wage and labor productivity as well as 
the weak capacity regarding financial monitoring and reporting of disaggregated  information, created 
significant constrains for revisions of previous estimates. Intangible benefits such as improved capacity and 
the potential transfer of learning outside the project area were not captured. One example would be the 
methods used to construct less environmentally damaging roads and their application in other rural access 
programs of RGOB. Non-timber benefits (lemon grass oil etc) are not being captured, although indications 
are that they must be significant, especially in providing income generation for nearby communities. 
Moving forward attention may need to directed to the following areas:
Significant and consistent cost reductions - the high recurrent costs during the project period suggest 
l
the need for a review of cost components and potential reductions. 
A greater role for the private sector operations leading to efficiency gains and lower costs of operations 
l
driven by competition. 
Further timber demand management including demand and markets analysis. 
l
Upward revision of the royalty rate at least to an inflation-adjusted constant rate. By providing a stable 
l
source of revenue to the government, the forestry sector would be fiscally sustainable.  
Attention to non-timber products, especially fodder and lemon grass oil (current productive techniques 
l
- 11 -
Page  16
increase the risk of forest fires). 
Incentives for greater investments in wood processing capacity and the use of improved technologies.
l
Streamlined and decentralized processes for marketing and sales and better information exchange 
l
between the center and the regional offices
Improved management and better coordination between players  - DFS, FDC, various contractors etc
l
Significantly better monitoring, data collection and analysis. Coordination in monitoring between FDC 
l
and DFS. 
Closer links between policy formulation in the sector performance and increased use of economic 
l
analysis both at FDC and at the policy level.
Closer links between policy and management plans in forestry and the broader RNR sector. 
l
4.4  
Financial rate of return:
Given the data constraints discussed previously, the economic analysis is more revealing regarding the 
factors affecting the performance of the project. The SAR estimated a 10 percent FRR. Given the 
conservative estimates used in the FRR calculations the ICR estimate of the FRR does not differ from the 
ERR estimate of 11 percent and therefore there is little change from the SAR estimate in this regard. Some 
notable points underscoring the economic/financial analysis in the ICR include: 
The SAR assumed no revenue would be generated from royalties in the first 20 years but the FMU's 
l
generated a small stream of other income including revenues, fees and fines. The level of royalty is 
nevertheless low and has remained at this level for the entire project period. No changes are expected in 
the rate in the near future. 
The SAR significantly underestimated the high level of recurrent costs. Again, the aggregated nature of 
l
available data makes it difficult to identify the sources of difference between the SAR estimates and 
reported values.
One critical concern has been the lack of published annual reporting on the financial performance of 
l
the project and little independent oversight. Available data was an ex-post reconstruction of the figures 
by FDCL with original data being unavailable. There has been capacity development in this area and 
going ahead, reliable financial reporting is essential for future viability. 
With these points in mind, in principle, the FMUs, however, considered as corporations, should be capable, 
on the basis of the volumes of expected harvests under the management plans and the market value of that 
production, of securing their financial solvency. In aggregate, the FMU investments should generate a 
stream of earnings before interest, taxes and any debt service that would yield a financial rate of return of 
at least 16 percent.  The data that are available do not compel the conclusion that the FMUs are likely to 
lack the capacity to be financially self-sustaining while also providing a source of revenue to Government.  
How the financial performance of the FMUs will ultimately evolve will much depend upon Government’s 
continued commitment to the further development of the private sector and successful alignment of 
commercial and marketing regulations in support of that objective.
4.5  
Institutional development impact:
The major institutional impacts of this project are seen in the increased capacity for FMU planning and 
social forestry skills among DOFS staff and the de-concentration of DOFS with the establishment of the 
Eastern Regional Forest Planning Office (RFPO). In light of the distance and difficulties of travel from 
Thimphu to the eastern Dzongkhags and the ambitious plans for decentralization in renewable natural 
resources sector activities during the 9th FYP, RGOB will likely rely heavily upon the newly acquired 
skills and infrastructure resident in the RFPO. Some project staff have already been transferred to the 
various Dzongkhag administrations to lead the process. The passage of the Social Forestry Rules (2000), 
although burdened with the requirement to include 50% degraded land where ever possible in each CFMU, 
- 12 -
Page  17
is a major step forward and again sets the stage for implementation of plans for decentralized RNR in the 
years to come. Very weak monitoring and evaluation at the FMU level has been somewhat strengthened 
with the development of standard formats for tracking physical, financial, and environmental indicators. 
Although developed for use in the project area, these formats were subsequently adopted for nation-wide 
use. On the basis of these factors institutional development impact is rated
 Modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The presence of insurgents in the southern part of the country reduced the scope of implementation for the 
forest management component from six to four Dzongkhags (districts), and has also resulted in higher 
transportation costs during periods when transshipment through India was unavailable. During the project 
period logging restrictions were progressively tightened in India, and while this might have contributed to 
increased revenues from timber exports domestic policies precluded this (see para 5.2).
5.2
Factors generally subject to government control:
i) In the later stages of implementation this project was considered at-risk for a brief period due primarily 
to problems in financial management. Prompt action taken by the government and the implementing agency 
to address the identified problems enabled the project to be removed from the list within 6 months; 
ii) RGOB export policy decisions (see para 4.1) reduced sales of hardwood timber and subsequent 
corrective actions have not yet demonstrated their effectiveness in resolving the problem (dialogue with the 
Wood-based industries association and inclusion of hardwoods in the schedule of rates); 
iii) During the project period the government temporarily reasserted a direct role in sawmilling although at 
preparation government intervention in this area was expected to be phased-out and this action has 
probably slowed the development of private sector milling; 
iv) In the absence of a national livestock and grazing policy, the forest grazing of cattle, often cited as the 
single most significant threat to forest regeneration in the project area, continues to be a major problem; 
v) Civil service procedures sometimes caused delays in filling project positions or resulted in staffing 
transfers soon after completing project-financed training, which undermined some of the 
capacity-strengthening measures attempted by TFDP.
5.3
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
i) DOFS decisions on social forestry during most of the project were significantly more restrictive than 
anticipated during preparation, resulting in very slow implementation of this component; 
ii) At preparation the Bank had expected that the FDCL would soon evolve towards commercial 
independence, but little progress took place during the project period. As a result, the project struggled with 
timber production and marketing issues as the social mandate of FDCL led them to incur costs which 
would not have been shouldered under a purely commercial mandate (e.g. provision of timber at subsidized 
prices to rural users, extending forest roads to facilitate rural access) and decisions on commercial 
operations such as international timber auctions are also routinely referred for approval by senior 
government officials in the capital, which makes the process very time-consuming. 
iii) The project initially declined to include FDCL staff in the training program on the grounds that a 
commercial entity should be in a position to cover such costs. During the project the FDCL failed to make 
significant investments in staff training. FDCL staff were eventually included in some project sponsored 
training events (including overseas study tours) however this training was widely viewed as inadequate 
given the key role played by FDCL staff in implementing FMU plans at the field level.
5.4
Costs and financing:
There were no major changes in cost assignments during the course of the project. Additional funds in the 
amount of $500,000 were added by the co-financier the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation to 
- 13 -
Page  18
support the technical assistance and training component of the project. Unallocated funds (representing 5% 
of total project costs) were allocated to civil works to cover construction of access roads and 2 additional 
bridges (see also Annex 2).
6.  Sustainability
6.1
Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated as
 Likely 
with some caveats.
 
TFDP experience has now demonstrated 
the effectiveness of broadleaf forest management and a sustained stream of net benefits is likely, assuming 
that issues related to hardwood marketing are resolved in the near term. The government has indicated that 
through a process of dialogue with the private sector, inclusion of hardwoods in the schedule of rates used 
in government contracting and with investments in kiln drying facilities they expect to successfully address 
this major pending issue.
The 9th Five Year Plan outlines an ambitious program of decentralized renewable natural resources (RNR) 
management including a very large increase in forest areas under community management. Formal 
acceptance of social forestry approaches and the passage of the social forestry rules indicate a steady and 
growing stream of benefits to participating communities. This fundamental paradigm shift from 
tree-centered to people-centered approaches to forest management is strongly linked to a broader process of 
decentralization that is the center piece of RGOB plans for rural development in the coming years and this 
is the strongest argument is support of the likely rating for sustainability for this project.  It is clear that 
technical and management support will be needed by the Dzongkhags as they take on new responsibilities 
under the decentralization program, and the former project staff are well placed to support the Dzongkhags 
in this process. Important procedures for implementing the RNR program are still being worked out but 
these efforts have already attracted financial and technical support from the SDC. 
The present arrangement by which capital costs of roads and bridges to open new FMUs are fully borne by 
FDCL may need to be reconsidered and some cost sharing might be envisioned with the Dzongkhag 
administration. It is clear that such infrastructure is providing broader development benefits, for example 
by providing increased market access for previously isolated communities. Maintenance responsibilities for 
these roads may also need to be divided; at present recurrent costs of maintenance are borne by FDCL but 
to the extent that the road is serving a broader set of objectives other beneficiaries should also be engaged. 
Had RGOB’s overarching stance on forest exploitation which has long favored production to meet local 
needs and shown deep skepticism about export-oriented logging been accepted as a long-term constant in 
the policy context, the project could have focused more clearly on local markets and obstacles to upgrading 
domestic processing capacity; some of this was picked up in the later stages of TFDP as well as in the 
Private Sector Survey and the Forest Institutional Development Initiative (IDF grant), but at project closing 
domestic timber supply and processing issues remain unresolved (such as the role of FDCL, the sorting and 
grading of timber lots for auction, impacts of government purchasing on domestic wood prices, and 
upgrading processing equipment including kiln drying facilities). Taken together these factors are largely 
within the control of the RGOB and for this reason sustainability is rated Likely.
6.2
Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Continued support for the regional forestry office (former TFDP unit of PFO) has been identified as one of 
the priorities in the 9th FYP, together with support for decentralized forest officers generally. The 
Dzongkhags are expected to take increasing authority over social forest planning and monitoring under the 
RGOB decentralization program, including decision-making regarding community forestry, thus the role of 
the regional forest office may only be a temporary facilitating role as capacity develops in the various 
- 14 -
Page  19
Dzongkhag offices although a continued monitoring and regulatory function is also possible. Given the 
scope of the decentralization program outlined above, and the new skills that must be acquired at the 
Dzongkhag and Geog levels,  it is expected that the period of transition to decentralized natural resources 
management will be gradual and may take several years.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1
Lending:
Bank Lending is rated 
Satisfactory. 
Given design practices of the early 1990's, the TFDP preparation was 
adequate and based on reasonably good sector knowledge. By present standards the institutional 
strengthening component appears simplistic, depending upon equipment purchases, study tours, and 
short-term training courses to bring about changes in institutional structures and relationships, but this was 
not unusual in TA investments of the early l990's. The reforestation/afforestation component was included 
at RGOB insistence, but the Bank’s preparation team was justified in its skepticism about the prospects for 
success. A forest industries component prepared under Swedish financing was dropped from the project 
design due to economic and environmental questions. Finally, financial management arrangements received 
insufficient attention during preparation and appraisal, on the expectation that the previous Bank-financed 
forestry operations would have provided relevant experience within the RGOB. At a late stage during 
implementation this was shown to be a faulty assumption.
7.2
Supervision:
Bank Supervision is rated 
Unsatisfactory
. Frequent turnover of Bank staff handicapped continuity in 
supervision, with six TTLs over the life of the project and frequent turnover of other supervision staff. 
Insufficient time in the field by supervision staff was another characteristic until late in the project, in part 
as a result of the very difficult travel conditions in the project area. Year-to-year variation in Bank 
supervision budgets was also a factor during much of the period, and at times no IDA staff were available 
to participate in field visits, which were then conducted by SDC alone. Greater continuity in supervision 
was provided by SDC, which maintained the same senior forester’s involvement throughout the project life, 
and just two community forestry specialists during the same period. One unexpected outcome of the 
co-financing arrangement, which gave the Bank primary supervision responsibility, was that poor 
performance of project components financed by SDC required Bank intervention, but the latter was often 
slow in addressing these concerns.
The Bank detected serious financial management shortcomings in 2000, which had apparently been 
overlooked up to that time. The ICR team was told that prior to 2000, FMS staff had primarily worked 
from reports available in the capital, without traveling to the project area to reconcile financial reports 
against PFO records. From 2000 until closing financial management supervision has been intense and 
resulted in significant improvement in performance on the Borrower side. During project implementation, 
questions were raised at various times about the safeguard implications of hardwood logging conducted 
under TFDP, and the project was placed on the, South Asia Region’s safeguards watch list around the time 
of the midterm review. According to Bank records, during the period 1993-98 supervision missions 
included no environmental specialist, and while both supervision missions in 1998 included an ecologist or 
environmentalist, from 1999 to project closing in 2002 the Bank again included no environmental specialist 
on supervision missions (with the exception of a brief visit to the capital by a SASES environmental 
specialist in April 2002, who subsequently led the ICR mission).
PSRs over a period of several years were unrealistically optimistic, rating several components highly 
satisfactory despite a growing number of implementation issues, as well as paying insufficient attention to 
the ultimate development objective. This optimism may have contributed to Bank management assumptions 
- 15 -
Page  20
that little attention was needed given the apparently good progress, at least until the MTR. According to the 
ICR team’s information, no procurement specialists have participated in supervision missions since the 
operation became effective in 1994. At MTR an opportunity was missed to refocus on key design 
assumptions, with much of the team’s effort going into revisions of the implementation schedule and budget 
tables. Several aspects of supervision improved following the MTR, including attention to financial 
management issues, procurement issues, and slow implementation progress. At the very end of the project 
the Bank also began pressing for greater attention to M&E, which had some beneficial results at the 
Ministry of Agriculture level; at the project level attention remained focused on completion of physical 
outputs, notably two bridges needed to provide access to the Dongdechu FMU.
7.3
Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance is rated 
Unsatisfactory 
based on the factors discussed above.
Borrower
7.4
Preparation:
Borrower preparation is rated 
Unsatisfactory
.
 
Borrower insistence on including the 
afforestation/reforestation component despite clear evidence from previous forestry operations that this was 
unlikely to be successful burdened the project with a non-viable component. Preparation inputs from the 
Borrower side were also uneven.
  
This low rating is also justified in part to ensure that commitments 
undertaken during preparation are followed up in a timely manner during project implementation (contrary 
examples from TFDP include the delays in approving the Social Forest Rules and the implementation of 
Environmental Impact Assessments).
7.5
Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated 
Satisfactory
 with important caveats. The satisfactory 
rating is based on prompt and effective attention to issues related to financial management and a proactive 
(although delayed) response to issues of subsidy removal, timber marketing, social forestry legal 
framework, and decentralization of forest services.  Additional justification for this rating comes from 
RGOB’s efforts in the final years of project implementation to overcome the implementation and 
disbursement lags identified by QAG in their last review of the project and the relatively smooth "transition 
to regular operations" (see Renewable Natural Resources Section of the 9th FYP). Caveats include: (i) 
Concerns about the ability of FDCL to track fundamental annual cost and revenue data. Data made 
available to the ICR team were in physical units (number of logs produced, cubic feet of timber sold) 
without corresponding monetary values. This handicapped the assessment of financial and economic 
performance. FDCL operations remain guided by physical production quotas set by government rather than 
commercial considerations supported by reliable financial performance data; (ii) Audit reports were 
routinely delivered 1 to 3 months late and in a few cases, the auditors had expressed a qualified opinion due 
to non-compliance with official procedures. There were no major accountability issues; (iii) Regular 
environmental audits to be conducted by the National Environment Commission under an MOU and work 
plan to be agreed by MOA, NEC and IDA were not carried out due to lack of capacity within NEC. 
Beginning in 2001 NEC started issuing environmental clearances for FMUs and the first of these is 
available for the Dongdechu FMU (on file).
7.6
Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance is rated 
Satisfactory. 
The project implementation office struggled 
during the early years of the project, with progress on many activities progressing much slower than 
planned. Procurement of key equipment, such as log loaders and an excavator, took over two years and 
significantly delayed progress in FMUs. In the last three years the Borrower strengthened the management 
team, and took effective measures to resolve financial management issues once the seriousness of the 
- 16 -
Page  21
situation became clear. An M&E initiative catalyzed by Bank supervision late in the project led to a 
Borrower decision to develop a new monitoring framework for the entire sector, and this task was 
successfully carried out with timely TA support.
7.7
Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance was initially quite weak (especially in financial management, procurement, 
afforestation efforts, and social forestry implementation) but steadily improved during the course of the 
project, during the last few years operational performance improved significantly, most notably at the level 
of the project facilitation office, which has developed a critical mass of technical and site management 
skills which represent the core achievement of TFDP. This also represents the major element of the 
project’s positive achievements with regard to sustainability and the potential for wide replication of the 
methodology demonstrated during TFDP. On this basis overall borrower performance is rated 
Satisfactory
, though other aspects of borrower performance had significant shortcomings.
8. 
Lessons Learned
Forest Management
(i) the sub-national focus of the project and a lack of sector work diminished the Bank’s engagement in and 
influence on Bhutan’s timber marketing policies; 
(ii) based in part on (i) above insufficient market/demand analysis was carried out and key aspects of the 
present system still do not function as an economic market – tightly regulated auctions are economically 
inefficient and do not differentiate between species, and there is substantial waste of natural forest 
resources;
(iii) infrastructure investments in remote areas which provide rural development benefits should include 
cost-sharing across beneficiary groups; and
(iv) preparation missions have consistently overestimated forest productive potential during three 
operations in Bhutan.
Social Forestry
(i) It took much longer than anticipated for RGOB to reach a consensus on social forestry policies and this 
raises questions about the Bank’s ability to influence policy with conditionality in Bhutan;
(ii) Developing a national grazing policy through a consultative process is an essential next step for 
successful development of forestry in Bhutan;
(iii) the social forestry rules (2000) allow for decentralized approval of community forests but central 
government approval is still routinely sought;
(iv) the social forestry approach risks a loss of credibility among local communities if not implemented in a 
timely manner and as agreed in the 9th FYP; and
(v) private nurseries may be unsustainable under the policy of providing seedlings free of charge.
Afforestation/Reforestation
(i) land for reforestation is often subject to other uses by local communities and therefore plantations have 
proven unsustainable in the absence of meaningful involvement of current users; for example, in the project 
area, local community production of lemongrass depends on burning which has seriously affected 
afforestation efforts, though this would not necessarily be detrimental if properly managed.
Institution Strengthening
(i) weak financial management should have been addressed with greater emphasis on up-front staff training 
- 17 -
Page  22
and the early assignment of a senior officer to oversee financial management in the project facilitation 
office.
(ii) institutional analysis was lacking, and this should have been addressed by including institutional 
development specialists in the design team;
(iii) training investments should be based upon a sound needs assessment, backed by a covenant to ensure 
compliance in the credit agreement; and
(iv) the training policy needs to ensure that staff trained in a particular skill remain employed in that area of 
training and that all training is consistent with an established training program (subject to the project 
agreement).
Cofinancing
(i) co-determination for the project component(s) financed by SDC
(ii) greater focus on shared "core concerns" and exclusion of "non-core" components (e.g. 
afforestation/reforestation).
(ii) need for shorter project duration and concrete intermediate targets (with consequences for 
non-fulfillment) to increase effectiveness
9. 
Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from Lyonpo Kinzang Dorji, Minister of Agriculture (12 March, 2003)
I would like to take this opportunity, prior to the finalization of the ICR for the TFDP, to inform our 
esteemed donors, IDA, and SDC on some of the latest positive developments that have ensued after the ICR 
mission, particularly in the field of timber marketing.
The FDCL have been making concerted and innovative efforts to improve the domestic marketing of 
hardwoods and subsequently these efforts have met with some significant success.  With the 
institutionalization of the first Wood based Industries Association on the country with the support of 
Ministry of Agriculture, several key marketing and utilization issues pertaining to broadleaf species were 
discussed at the ministerial level and consequently, in April of 2002, government notification was issued to 
include mixed hardwoods in the Bhutan Schedule of Rates for all construction purposes.  Through such a 
process of close consultation with the relevant Ministries and the Private sector. we were able to remove 
some misperceptions of domestic timber supply and thereby further encourage a whole stream of hardwood 
processing opportunities by encouraging the use of seasoned and prefabricated hardwood timber.  Of late, 
more than 90,000 cft of hardwood logs from Korilla depot have now been auctioned off to domestic wood 
based industries this January.  With the strengthening of the planning and research section of FDCL, the 
annual production of hardwoods from FMUs in the east are now more realistically matched with domestic 
demand.
As you are aware, the conducive environment for private sector development in the country will further 
pave the way for domestic hardwood processing capability and elevate the economic performance of our 
Forest Management Units.
You will be pleased to note that the continuation of some of the major programs initiated under TFDP are 
well underway under the new institutional arrangement of the Regional Forestry Planning Office, 
established in Khangma.  On closer reflection, the smooth transition of the TFDP programs to regular 
- 18 -
Page  23
operations can be mainly indebted to some of the major successes obtained under TFDP and the pro active 
planning and coordination on the part of the IDA/SDC and the national team.  Fore these efforts I convey 
my commendation to all.
In conjunction, I would also like to inform you , that the valuable experiences gained for social forestry 
Development  under the auspices of TFDP are now increasingly adding value and knowledge in 
implementing such activities nationwide.
In light of the immense contributions made under TFDP, in the interest of forest sector development, we 
hope that your management will share the similar views and rate the project performance in a more 
comprehensive manner.
Additional comments from the Implementing Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture have been 
incorporated and are on file.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC)
Overall the ICR provides a good assessment of the project. The relatively low rating of the projects 
performance is certainly justified. It is acknowledged by SDC though it is tough. However, there are a 
series of indicators which are not adequately reflected in the ICR, e.g. the good professional progress of 
Bhutanese project partners due to training and technical assistance provided by the project. According to us 
such achievements are equally important mosaic pieces as e.g. the number of kilometers of forest roads 
constructed. Would the project be considered as learning process for initiating gentle and sustainable 
methods of forest management, the assessment would have been better.
SDC wishes to comment on 3 points:
1.
SDCs substantial project inputs
in form of financial support (grant) and intensive cooperation throughout the entire project period are not 
adequately acknowledged in the ICR. There are some indications here and there but under inappropriate 
headings (e.g. "The Bank's Comparative Advantage" or "Bank Inputs"). In fact the Bank down-played the 
important contribution of SDC over the years – both in financial terms and in the persons of consultants 
who, according to us, kept things far more on track than might otherwise have been the case, and provided 
an invaluable institutional memory. Although this point was well discussed in the ICR mission, it somehow 
still does not come out in the final document.
SDCs strengths in this project are:
Substantial financial inputs (3.8 Mio USD = roughly 40 % of total budget)
l
Flexible financial procedure (mid term topping up, special arrangements at the end of the project)
l
Supervision: Bringing in valuable experience 
l
Ensuring of the project supervision continuity (intensive rotation of WB staff)
l
2.
Lessons learnt by SDC
Co-determination instead of right to a say
l
Through the participation in the supervision missions SDC had a right to a say. However, in 
several occasions we experienced that our concerns and proposals were not taken seriously 
enough by the WB. In another project cooperation with the WB there must be a 
co-determination for the project component(s) financed by SDC.
- 19 -
Page  24
Focus on core concerns
l
The cooperation within relatively large multicomponent projects contains always a risk to 
co-support fields which SDC does not consider to be core concerns (e.g. 
afforestation/reforestation).
Max. project duration of 5 years with intermediate milestones
l
The project duration of 8 years was too long (change of policy, targets etc.; difficult project 
adaptation by WB). The Mid Term Review was not a genuine "intermediate examination". The 
TFDP has made it clear that concrete intermediate targets (with consequences in the case of 
non-fulfillment) should be set and can be necessary and effective.
Human Resources Development
l
Trainings are to be based strictly on a requirement analysis. The compliance with same has to 
be included in the project agreement.
Evaluation of the past WB-SDC cooperation (Forestry Project Bhutan)
With its decision to cooperate with the WB, SDC expected to bring in its forestry experiences and by doing 
so to influence positively the forestry project intended to be carried out by the WB. There was also a hope 
to enter into a policy dialogue with the WB and RGOB. As stated above this expectation did not fully 
materialize. However, the second half of the TFDP showed a clear improvement of cooperation. Chris Keil 
was the first Task Manager seeking personal contacts (e.g. visit of SDC headquarter after taking over of 
project).
The project guidance was not optimal, despite frequent supervisions. Due to frequent changes of Task 
Managers the continuity was lacking. The FMS were not integrated in the missions and did never visit the 
project area. From the Bank management nobody has ever paid a visit to the project area. Longstanding 
serious shortcomings in the financial management were discovered only in the year 2000. Hence, adequate 
improvement measures were initiated late. In the PSRs the project assessments were too optimistic for too 
long. The utilization of SDC funds were not supervised with adequate attention.
A new cooperation with the WB is to be considered carefully. If yes, this can only be done with an 
agreement on clear-cut prerequisites and conditions (some are mentioned under point 2). An important 
learning for SDC is that project partnerships with the Bank have to be clearly defined from the outset - and 
independence in financial disbursement is a "must", as it is there that all power over decision-making lies 
(at least as far as the WB is concerned).
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. 
Additional Information
- 20 -
Page  25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators
Key Indicator
Expectation at SAR/MTR
Actual Status
Sustainable system of 
scientific forest 
management introduced in 
Eastern Bhutan
System introduced and 
under implementation in all 
six Dzonkhags in the east
System developed and introduced in 4 of six Dzonkhags in east; 
Monitoring and Evaluation methods adopted nationally; Financial 
management aspects not yet fully addressed.
FMU Planning capacity of 
DOFS increased to meet 
demand
Planning capacity  in 
Thimphu enhanced
Central capacity enhanced and regional planning capacity established 
but implementation capacity by FDCL is still an issue
Environmentally sound 
logging roads introduced
Improved road building 
techniques introduced and 
widely applied
Methodologies introduced by the project have been widely applied 
and private contractors have been trained 
Environmentally sound 
logging practices 
introduced
Improved logging practices 
introduced and widely 
applied
Reduced impact logging has been introduced, trainings imparted to 
private sector contractors; coordination between contractors remains 
an issue
Environmentally sound 
regeneration practices 
introduced
Improved regeneration 
practices introduced and 
widely applied
High quality applied research conducted and published; 
recommendations applied but community cooperation still lacking in 
areas with high cattle density
Increased community 
involvement in FMU 
planning and decision 
making
not anticipated
Has become a standard feature of FMU planning in Eastern Bhutan
Sustainable mechanism 
for village management of 
forest on public land 
introduced
Implmentation in all six 
Dzonkhags in eastern 
Bhutan
Implementation on a very limited scale in only 2 Dzonkhags; Scale-
up planned during 9th FYP but prospects uncertain.
Social Forestry Rules 
approved and 
implemented
Rules adopted early in 
project period and 
implemented fully
Rules adopted only in 2000 and not yet fully implemented
Forest Management
Social Forestry
- 21 -
Page  26
Outcome / Impact Indicators
 
(cont.)
Key Indicator
Expectation at SAR/MTR
Actual Status
Field staff trained in 
Social Forestry 
approaches and methods
Staff trained and actively 
applying their knowledge in 
preparation of village forest 
management units and 
plantations.
Staff well trained but limited application at field level due to 
Department of Forest Services' concerns about moving too quickly
Transition nursery 
production of seedlings 
from government to 
private hands
Phase out of govt 
production as private 
nursery operators increase 
production
Private nursery production increased but competition from 
subsidized govt. production continues
Seedling survival rates 
increased
Seedling survival rates at 
acceptable levels
Seedling survival rates improving slowly partly due to limited 
community involvement
Regeneration successful 
on most sites with limited 
replanting required
Successful regeneration on 
most sites within 2 years
Successful regeneration on few sites within two years; possible 
improvement in survival rates indicated in PCR but not confirmed by 
mission
Communities actively 
engaged in protection and 
management decisions
not anticipated
Community involvement hs recently been adopted as one of the key 
site selection criteria
Strengthened capacity for 
forest sector policy 
analysis, policy 
development and 
implementation
Increased capacity for 
management decision 
making at central level
MoA and DOFS gained skills in cost benefit analysis and policy 
formulation but consistency of policy is still an issue
Improved capacity to plan 
and manage forest sector 
investments
Trained staff in key 
positions making use of 
their acquired skills 
Uneven implementation in international training program with only a 
few marked successes;   Domestic training and coaching improved 
planning and monitoring capacity; Decentralized planning of 9th 
FYP supported by FIDI
Forest product price 
reforms implemented
Reduction in subsidies and 
introduction of timber 
auction system
Rural timber subsidies reduced and timber auction introduced; 
inefficiencies in auctions remain due to species mixing and delayed 
international auctions. 
Increase domestic supply 
of timber
not anticipated
Domestic supply of softwoods increased due to partial export ban; 
Domestic demand for softwoods still out strips demand; Domestic 
hardwood market not able to absorb production and international 
auctions not implemented in a timely manner
Institutional Strengthening
Afforestation / Reforestation
- 22 -
Page  27
Output Indicators
 Key Indicators
Units
MTR Target 
(Revised)
Total Achieved
% MTR  Target 
(Revised)
No. of community and private nurseries
Nos.
--
35 
--
No. of gov't nurseries
Nos.
--
9 
--
No. seedlings distributed by gov't 
nurseries
Nos.
688,000 
628,741 
91%
No. seedlings distributed by private 
nurseries
Nos.
702,000 
1,776,010 
253%
No. of farmers receiving seedlings
Nos.
--
154,320 
--
No. of CFMUs approved
Nos.
3 
4 
133%
Area under approved CFMUs (total)
Ha
--
568 
--
No. of member h/holds in approved 
CFMUs (total)
Nos.
--
277 
--
Community plantations:
No. of PCPs approved
Nos.
--
8 
--
No. of member h/holds in approved 
PCPs (total)
Nos.
--
584 
--
Area planted (natural regeneration)
Ha
445
410
92%
Area planted (direct seeding)
Ha
30
195
650%
Area planted (artificial regeneration)
Ha
635
1,056
166%
Seedling survival - Territorial Division - 
based on total of 586.6 Ha
%
--
41.4
--
Seedling survival - Dzonkhag Forestry - 
based on total of 56 Ha
%
--
61.3
--
Labor emloyment generated
days
--
200,702
--
Afforestation/Reforestation
Nursery Operations
Community Forests
- 23 -
Page  28
Output Indicators (cont.)
 Key Indicators
Units
MTR Target 
(Revised)
Total Achieved
% MTR  Target 
(Revised)
FMU plans approved
Nos.
5
5
100%
FMUs in operation
Nos.
5
4
80%
Bridges constructed
Nos.
1
3
Improved forest road constructed 
Km
29
43
149%
Timber production
CFT
--
659,288
--
Timber disposal
CFT
--
556,288
--
   Staff Quarters
Nos.
--
3
--
   DFO Office 
Nos.
3
2
67%
DFO residence
Nos.
--
2
--
   Range Office
Nos.
9
9
100%
   Beat Office
Nos.
18
22
122%
   Forest Management Unit Office
Nos.
5
5
100%
  Forest Check Post
Nos.
--
4
--
Dzk Forestry Office 
Nos.
--
2
--
  RFPO Office
Nos.
--
1
--
Civil Works
FOREST MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
- 24 -
Page  29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 1.
In XDR
#
     Category 
Description
Allocated 
XDR
Actual* 
Disbursed 
XDR
Undisb 
XDR
%
1
CIVIL/PLANT WORKS   
2,040,000.00
2,067,812.56
-27,812.56
101.4%
2
EQUIP/VEH/MAT       
1,422,000.00
1,373,112.86
48,887.14
96.6%
4
SAL/OPER COST       
438,000.00
398,288.46
39,711.54
90.9%
Cross exchange rate loss**
--
40,099.94
-40,099.94
Totals 
3,900,000.00
3,879,313.82
20,686.18
99.5%
in CHF
3
CONSULT SERV/TRAIN
   5,940,000.00 
   5,899,185.12 
     40,814.88 
99.3%
Cross exchange rate loss**
--
40,814.88
       
 
(40,814.88)
  
 
Totals 
   5,940,000.00 
   5,940,000.00 
 -- 
100.0%
* actual disbursement as of December 15, 2002
** difference due to cross-exchange rate on disbursement to the special account
Disbursement by Category in the DCA Agreement Currency
  Disbursement by procurement method is not available in the project as they were not monitoring the 
data by procurement method.  
Tables 2 and 3 include information through June 30, 2002 upto and including withdrawal application # 
IDA54.
FMP
FMI
Agro
VFM
Investment Cost
Civil Works
2,398,341.00
      
 
62,345,718.53
      
 
6,362,705.00
      
 
2,230,222.28
      
 
15,588,262.50
    
 
40,508,395.43
      
 
129,433,644.74
     
 
a) Building
40,508,395.43
      
 
40,508,395.43
      
 
b) Plantations
2,398,341.00
      
 
3,581,466.96
        
 
6,362,705.00
      
 
2,230,222.28
      
 
15,588,262.50
    
 
-
                        
 
30,160,997.74
      
 
c) Roads
-
                     
 
41,886,703.74
      
 
41,886,703.74
      
 
d) Bridges
16,877,547.83
      
 
16,877,547.83
      
 
Equipment
1,348,122.00
      
 
30,037,781.00
      
 
592,468.00
         
 
2,858,343.00
      
 
105,579.00
         
 
43,397,889.02
      
 
78,340,182.02
      
 
a) Local
548,122.00
         
 
2,918,425.00
        
 
592,468.00
         
 
2,058,343.00
      
 
105,579.00
         
 
19,491,515.02
      
 
25,714,452.02
      
 
b) Foreign
800,000.00
         
 
27,119,356.00
      
 
800,000.00
         
 
23,906,374.00
      
 
52,625,730.00
      
 
TA/Training
34,901,951.46
    
 
27,096,493.46
      
 
32,963,975.48
    
 
23,348,398.00
    
 
11,000.00
           
 
43,672,264.31
      
 
161,994,082.71
     
 
Total Investment Cost
38,648,414.46
   
 
119,479,992.99
    
 
39,919,148.48
   
 
28,436,963.28
   
 
15,704,841.50
   
 
127,578,548.76
    
 
369,767,909.47
    
 
Recurrent Cost
Operating Cost
6,139,099.00
      
 
5,015,784.00
        
 
4,910,193.00
      
 
3,568,212.00
      
 
4,725,824.00
      
 
12,906,112.93
      
 
37,265,224.93
      
 
Total Recurrent Cost
6,139,099.00
      
 
5,015,784.00
        
 
4,910,193.00
      
 
3,568,212.00
      
 
4,725,824.00
      
 
12,906,112.93
      
 
37,265,224.93
      
 
Grand Total
44,787,513.46
    
 
124,495,776.99
     
 
44,829,341.48
    
 
32,005,175.28
    
 
20,430,665.50
    
 
140,484,661.69
     
 
407,033,134.40
     
 
Table 2. 
Disbursement Category as per DCA (values in Nu as of June 30, 2002)
Component/ 
Subcomponent
Forest Mngmnt
Social Forestry
Afforestation
Institutional
Total
- 25 -
Page  30
At SAR
A
t MTR
Civil Works
TA/Training
Operating Cost
Total
Foreign
Local
1. Forest Mngmnt
97.309
        
 
138.386
      
 
64,744,059.53
     
 
27,919,356.00
   
 
3,466,547.00
     
 
61,998,444.92
     
 
11,154,883.00
     
 
169,283,290.45
   
 
a. FMP
97.309
        
 
35.129
        
 
2,398,341.00
       
 
800,000.00
        
 
548,122.00
        
 
34,901,951.46
     
 
6,139,099.00
       
 
44,787,513.46
     
 
b. FMI
-
             
 
103.257
      
 
62,345,718.53
     
 
27,119,356.00
   
 
2,918,425.00
     
 
27,096,493.46
     
 
5,015,784.00
       
 
124,495,776.99
   
 
2. Social Forestry
40.807
        
 
73.917
        
 
8,592,927.28
       
 
800,000.00
        
 
2,650,811.00
     
 
56,312,373.48
     
 
8,478,405.00
       
 
76,834,516.76
     
 
a. Agro
21.973
        
 
49.941
        
 
6,362,705.00
       
 
-
                    
 
592,468.00
        
 
32,963,975.48
     
 
4,910,193.00
       
 
44,829,341.48
     
 
b. VFM
18.834
        
 
23.976
        
 
2,230,222.28
       
 
800,000.00
        
 
2,058,343.00
     
 
23,348,398.00
     
 
3,568,212.00
       
 
32,005,175.28
     
 
3. Afforestation
9.417
         
 
16.197
        
 
15,888,262.50
     
 
-
                    
 
105,579.00
        
 
11,000.00
            
 
4,725,824.00
       
 
20,730,665.50
     
 
4. Institutional
87.892
        
 
142.819
      
 
40,508,395.43
     
 
23,906,374.00
   
 
19,491,515.02
   
 
43,672,264.31
     
 
12,906,112.93
     
 
140,484,661.69
   
 
Grand Total Nu. 
(
1+2+3+4
)
235.425
      
 
371.319
      
 
129,733,644.74
   
 
52,625,730.00
   
 
25,714,452.02
   
 
161,994,082.71
   
 
37,265,224.93
     
 
407,333,134.40
   
 
Exchange rate applied at SAR: 1$ = 31.39 Nu and at MTR: 1$ = 35.52 Nu
The exchange rate since MTR has ranged from  1$ = 42.51 to 48.07 Nu
Table 3. 
Component/ 
Subcomponent
Est.  Amt in  Nu.M
Disbursement Category as per DCA (values in Nu as of June 30, 2002)
Equipment
- 26 -
Page  31
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
                                    
Table 1: 
Economic and Price Inflation
a) Standard Conversion Factor
   SCF  
0.85
source World Bank 1999
b) Domestic Inflation
YEAR
1992-93
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Domestic Inflation 
1/
0.07
0.07
0.07
0.07
0.06
0.02
0.02
0.02
0.03
Deflator 
2/
1.103
1.137
1.214
1.296
1.383
1.470
1.529
1.563
1.598
1.636
c) Exchange Rates 
3/
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Exchange Rates Nu/USD
31.39
31.38
34.02
35.52
38.27
42.51
43.49
46.24
48.07
notes: 
1/
 1994-2002 inflation rates are as presented by the ICR mission; 1992-1993 rates follow the 1994 rate.
2/
 The deflator assumes that expenditures were incurred throughout the year; therefore, one half of a 
current year's inflation enters as a factor in that year's deflator.  The deflator converts expenditures
 into mid-1992 constant values.
3/
 World Bank.
- 27 -
Page  32
Table 2.
Model Parameters
Product Breakdowns (Hardwood) 
1/
Product Breakdowns (Chir Pine) 
1/
Korila
Khaling-
Kharungl
a
Dongde-
chu
Lingme-
thang
Rongman-
chu
Lingme-
thang
Rongman-
chu
 ti
mber
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
 timber
0
.55
0.55
 poles
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
 poles
0
.23
0.23
 fuelwood
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
 fuel
wood
0
.23
0.23
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Development of Production for First Three FMUs 
2/
0.04
0.21
0.26
0.29
0.27
0.41
0
.54
0.54
Development of Production for Remaining FMUs
YEAR
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
PY
10
11
12
13
14
Development of Production for First Three FMUs 
2/
0.63
0.72
0.81
0.91
1.00
Development of Production for Remaining FMUs
0.20
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
W
ithout Project Starting Unmanaged Extraction
% of managed AAC potential
40%
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Financial Evaluation of Forest Manage
ment Units
Physical Output (cft/
m3 = 30.1)
- 28 -
Page  33
Table 3.
Bangladesh 
1/
Product
USD/m
3
nu/m
3
nu/cft
USD/m
3
nu/m
3 2/
nu/cft 
2/
nu/m
3
nu/cft
fuelwood
7.67
214.76
7.13
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
343.00
11.40
poles
50.98
1427.44
47.42
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
hardwood
134.53
3766.84
125.14
83.50
2338.00
77.67
775.00
25.75
Notes:
1/
 Bangladesh Forest Resources Management Project ICR, expressed in 1992 constant values.
2/
 Expressed in 1992 constant values.
Local Equivalent
Private Sector Study
SAR
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Financial Evaluation of Forest Management Units
Data Used to Bracket Product Prices 
- 29 -
Page  34
Table 4.
Model Parameters
SCF
0.85
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Current Values 
1/
Investment Costs
3.1
13.2
8.8
2.7
17.2
11.9
34.6
8.0
29.7
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.4
1.9
2.2
2.3
2.3
4.3
3.6
7.6
TOTAL COSTS
3.1
13.5
10.6
5.0
19.6
14.2
38.9
11.7
37.3
Costs in mid-1992 constant values
Investment Costs
2.7
10.8
6.8
2.0
11.7
7.8
22.1
5.0
18.2
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.3
1.4
1.6
1.6
1.5
2.8
2.3
4.7
4.7
TOTAL COSTS
2.7
11.1
8.2
3.6
13.3
9.3
24.9
7.3
22.8
4.7
Economic Values (mid-1992 constant values) 
2/
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Investment Costs
2.6
10.3
6.4
1.9
11.1
7.4
21.0
4.8
17.2
0.0
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.3
1.4
1.5
1.5
1.4
2.6
2.1
4.4
4.4
TOTAL COSTS
2.6
10.5
7.8
3.4
12.6
8.8
23.6
6.9
21.6
4.4
Notes:
1/
 ICR mission data.  Base recurrent costs following project completion based on 2002 actuals (mid-1992 constant values).
Costs may reduce in real terms over time as further privatisation is implemented.
2/
 Assumes as at the time of the appraisal that foreign exchange constitutes 65% of total component costs. 
A standard conversion factor of 0.85 was applied to the domestic cost component of expenditures (ICR data; the SAR 
applied a factor of 0.73).
Comparison to SAR Estimates
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Investment Costs
12.0
9.6
6.9
6.5
4.2
5.1
3.3
1.2
3.4
Recurrent Costs
0.0
2.1
2.4
2.7
3.6
3.7
3.8
1.2
1.7
TOTAL COSTS
12.0
11.8
9.3
9.2
7.7
8.8
7.1
2.4
5.0
Note that project costs for this component differ from the SAR analysis by 50%, and a comparison with SAR figures may not be 
useful. Upon inspection, it is not apparent how component costs presented in the SAR analysis are reconciled with project costs
for the component presented elsewhere in the SAR.
Component Costs
(Ngultrum million)
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Financial Evaluation of Forest Management Units
- 30 -
Page  35
Table 5.
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
With Project Scenario 
3/
Hardwood Working Circles
Total harvested area (ha)
#N/A
67
67
67
67
67
67
67
67
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
14188
6054
9633
10585
11165
10629
13652
16308
16191
Total volumes harvested (cft)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Timber (m
3
)
5675
2422
3853
4234
4466
4252
5461
6523
6477
Total Poles (m
3
)
4256
1816
2890
3176
3350
3189
4096
4892
4857
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
4256
1816
2890
3176
3350
3189
4096
4892
4857
Chir Pine Working Circles 
4/
Total harvested area (ha)
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
#N/A
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
1151
1122
1094
1065
1036
1007
979
950
921
Total volumes harvested (cft)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Timber (m
3
)
633
617
602
586
570
554
538
522
507
Total Poles (m
3
)
259
253
246
240
233
227
220
214
207
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
259
253
246
240
233
227
220
214
207
With Project Potential Aggregated Production (m
3
) 
5/
Timber
6308
3039
4455
4820
5036
4806
5999
7046
6983
Poles
4515
2069
3136
3415
3583
3415
4316
5106
5065
Fuelwood
4515
2069
3136
3415
3583
3415
4316
5106
5065
With Project Observed and Projected Production (m
3
) 
6/
Timber
2208
1064
3455
2954
2929
4496
4536
7021
5866
Poles
1580
724
2432
2093
2084
3195
3263
5088
4254
Fuelwood
1580
724
2432
2093
2084
3195
3263
5088
4254
Without Project Scenario
Expected Aggregated Production 
7/
Disposal of Production 
8/
35%
35%
78%
61%
58%
94%
76%
100%
84%
Timber
2208
2153
4648
3576
3303
5164
4055
5186
4239
Poles
1580
1541
3327
2560
2364
3696
2902
3712
3034
Fuelwood
1580
1541
3327
2560
2364
3696
2902
3712
3034
Notes:
Physical Output (cft/m
3
 = 30.1)
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Financial Evaluation of Forest Management Units
7/ 
In the scenario without the project it is assumed as in the presentation in the SAR that unmanaged 
of appreciable value over a forty-year period.  Recent work in Bhutan suggests that this extraction may be 
under proper management; although the actual figure could be higher.  The base case uses 40% of potential 
8/
 W
ith and without project scenarios use the same obseved and projected disposal rates.
4/
 Chir pine production develops as the Lingmethang and Rongmanchu units start their operations.  Areas that 
plans continue unmanaged harvesting in the interim.
5/
 Observed and projected production before disposal.
6/ 
Takes into account observed disposal rates up to the time of the ICR.
1/
 Based on forest management plans for Korila, Khaling, Dongdechu and Lingmethang. Current practices 
2/
 ICR mission data; the Lingmethang and Rongmanchu AAC under management are expected to come on 
3/
 Based on ICR data and forest management plans. These figures represent harvesting during the 
m
isson and projected harvesting according to approved management plans and the capacity installed by the 
- 31 -
Page  36
Table 5 (cont.)
YEAR
2003
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
PY
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
With Project Scenario 
3/
Hardwood Working Circles
Total harvested area (ha)
67
99
107
107
107
107
107
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
16635
35469
35469
35469
35469
35469
35469
Total volumes harvested (cft)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Timber (m
3
)
6654
14188
14188
14188
14188
14188
14188
Total Poles (m
3
)
4991
10641
10641
10641
10641
10641
10641
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
4991
10641
10641
10641
10641
10641
10641
Chir Pine Working Circles 
4/
Total harvested area (ha)
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
576
2878
2878
2878
2878
2878
2878
Total volumes harvested (cft)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Timber (m
3
)
317
1583
1583
1583
1583
1583
1583
Total Poles (m
3
)
130
648
648
648
648
648
648
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
130
648
648
648
648
648
648
With Project Potential Aggregated Production (m
3
) 
5/
Timber
6971
15771
15771
15771
15771
15771
15771
Poles
5120
11288
11288
11288
11288
11288
11288
Fuelwood
5120
11288
11288
11288
11288
11288
11288
With Project Observed and Projected Production (m
3
) 
6/
Timber
6009
15771
15771
15771
15771
15771
15771
Poles
4414
11288
11288
11288
11288
11288
11288
Fuelwood
4414
11288
11288
11288
11288
11288
11288
Without Project Scenario
Expected Aggregated Production 
7/
Disposal of Production 
8/
86%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
Timber
4214
4100
3312
2523
1735
946
158
Poles
3016
2935
2371
1806
1242
677
113
Fuelwood
3016
2935
2371
1806
1242
677
113
- 32 -
Page  37
Table 6
Model Parameters
With Project Prices 
1/
Without Project Prices 
2/
nu/m
3
nu/cft
nu/m
3
nu/cft
timber
1806
60
1806
60
poles
1427
47
1427
47
fuelwood
215
7
215
7
Recurrent Costs Following 2003 (nu million) 
3/
4.4
Without Project Harvesting Cost (nu/m3) 
4/
482
Disposal of Production 
5/
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
0.35
35%
78%
61%
58%
94%
76%
100%
84%
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
With Project Scenario
Total Costs 
6/
3.6
10.5
7.8
3.4
12.6
8.8
23.6
6.9
21.6
Value of Production (potential) 
7/
Timber
11.4
5.5
8.0
8.7
9.1
8.7
10.8
12.7
12.6
Poles
6.4
3.0
4.5
4.9
5.1
4.9
6.2
7.3
7.2
Fuelwood
1.0
0.4
0.7
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.9
1.1
1.1
Total Benefits
18.8
8.9
13.2
14.3
15.0
14.3
17.9
21.1
20.9
Potential Net Benefits
15.2
-1.7
5.4
10.9
2.4
5.5
-5.7
14.2
-0.7
With Project Value of Production 
(observed and projected) 
8/
Total Benefits Realised
6.6
3.1
10.2
8.8
8.7
13.4
13.6
21.0
17.6
Projected With Project Net Benefits
2.9
-7.5
2.5
5.4
-3.9
4.6
-10.1
14.1
-4.1
Without Project Scenario 
9/
Value of Production
Timber
4.0
3.9
8.4
6.5
6.0
9.3
7.3
9.4
7.7
Poles
2.3
2.2
4.7
3.7
3.4
5.3
4.1
5.3
4.3
Fuelwood
0.3
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.8
0.6
0.8
0.7
Total Benefits
6.6
6.4
13.9
10.7
9.8
15.4
12.1
15.5
12.6
Harvesting Costs
1.1
1.0
2.2
1.7
1.6
2.5
2.0
2.5
2.0
Net Without Project Benefits
5.5
5.4
11.6
8.9
8.3
12.9
10.1
13.0
10.6
Incr Net Benefits
-2.6
-12.8
-9.2
-3.6
-12.2
-8.3
-20.2
1.2
-14.6
IRR (projected)
17.33%
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Financial Evaluation of Forest Management Units
FMU Aggregated Costs and Benefits
(Ngultrum million)
- 33 -
Page  38
Table 6 (cont.)
YEAR
2003
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
PY
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
W
ith Project Scenario
86%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
Total Costs 
6/
Value of Production (potential) 
7/
Timber
2003
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
End Value
Poles
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
of Stock
Fuelwood
Total Benefits
4.4
4.4
4.4
4.4
4.4
4.4
4.4
Potential Net Benefits
12.6
28.5
28.5
28.5
28.5
28.5
28.5
1806.0
With Project Value of Production 
(observed and projected) 
8/
7.3
16.1
16.1
16.1
16.1
16.1
16.1
1070.3
1.1
2.4
2.4
2.4
2.4
2.4
2.4
161.3
Total Benefits Realised
21.0
47.0
47.0
47.0
47.0
47.0
3084.5
3037.5
Projected With Project Net Benefits
16.6
42.6
42.6
42.6
42.6
42.6
3080.1
W
ithout Project Scenario 
9/
Value of Production
Timber
Poles
18.1
47.0
47.0
47.0
47.0
47.0
3084.5
Fuelwood
13.7
42.6
42.6
42.6
42.6
42.6
3080.1
Total Benefits
Harvesting Costs
Net Without Project Benefits
7.6
7.4
6.0
4.6
3.1
1.7
0.3
Incr Net Benefits
4.3
4.2
3.4
2.6
1.8
1.0
0.2
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.1
0.0
12.6
12.2
9.9
7.5
5.2
2.8
0.5
2.0
2.0
1.6
1.2
0.8
0.5
0.1
10.5
10.2
8.3
6.3
4.3
2.4
0.4
3.1
32.3
34.3
36.3
38.3
40.2
3079.7
- 34 -
Page  39
Table 6. (cont.)
Notes:
5/ 
The disposal rates up to 2002 are given by ICR mission data.  In the base case, Government policy does not impede 
disposal and intensity of harvesting.
6/ 
In the first project year, hitherto unmanaged harvesting continues.  First year costs with the project include an 
estimate of the cost of this activity.
7/
 These rows present with project development of outputs in the absence of disposal difficulties.  
8/ 
These rows apply the disposal rates identified by the ICR mission to the preceding potential benefit streams.  In the 
base case, in the future with the project, there is no significant loss in the executed AAC due to product spoilage related 
to Government marketing policies and regulations. In project year 40 benefits include the value of the standing stock.  
In the scenario without the project this value is zero.  Total growing stock with the project is estimated at 2.5 million m3.
1/
  Using the auction prices listed in the Private Sector Study as a lower bound and Bangladesh values as a border price 
upper bound the economic value falls within a range of nu 2338-3766/m3. In the base case, it is assumed that low log 
quality restricts values to the low end of the range.
2/
 It would be possible to distinguish average wood quality with and without with differing sets of product prices.  In the 
base case, no distinction is made:current quality is assumed in both with and without project scenarios.
3/  
Based on ICR mission data.
4/ 
Extrapolated from ICR mission data. The base parameter is based on a cost of nu 16/cft. This parameter appears for 
completeness; its impact in the with project scenario is negligible.  Its primary use is in the without project scenario.
9/ 
In the scenario without the project it is assumed as in the presentation in the SAR that unmanaged harvesting would 
degrade the opportunity to extract timber of appreciable value over a forty-year period.  Recent work in Bhutan 
suggests that this extraction may be equivalent to about 40% of potential AAC obtainable under proper management; 
althought the actual figure could be higher.  The base case uses 40% of potential AAC for the without project 
scenario.The impact of this factor within the model is tested in the sensitivity analysis.
- 35 -
Page  40
Table 7.
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Incremental Benefits
0.0
-3.3
-3.6
-1.9
-1.1
-2.0
1.5
5.6
4.9
5.5
Incremental Costs
2.6
9.5
5.5
1.7
11.0
6.3
21.7
4.4
19.6
2.4
Incremental Net Benefits
-2.6
-12.8
-9.2
-3.6
-12.2
-8.3
-20.2
1.2
-14.6
3.1
YEAR
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
PY
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Incremental Benefits
12.1
20.4
27.3
34.3
34.8
35.3
35.7
36.2
36.7
37.1
Incremental Costs
2.4
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.8
Incremental Net Benefits
9.7
18.1
25.0
31.9
32.3
32.7
33.1
33.5
33.9
34.3
YEAR
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
PY
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
Incremental Benefits
37.6
38.1
38.6
39.0
39.5
40.0
40.4
40.9
41.4
41.8
Incremental Costs
2.9
3.0
3.1
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.4
3.5
3.6
Incremental Net Benefits
34.7
35.1
35.5
35.9
36.3
36.7
37.1
37.5
37.9
38.3
YEAR
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
PY
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
Incremental Benefits
42.3
42.8
43.3
43.7
44.2
44.7
45.1
45.6
46.1
3084.0
Incremental Costs
3.7
3.7
3.8
3.9
4.0
4.0
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
Incremental Net Benefits
38.6
39.0
39.4
39.8
40.2
40.6
41.0
41.4
41.8
3079.7
IRR (projected)
17.33%
Incre
mental Values
(Nu million)
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
F
inancial Evaluation of Forest Management Units
- 36 -
Page  41
Table 8.
Sensitivity of Base IRR to Base Product Values and Productivity
(disposal at 100%, all other base parameters unchanged)
-20%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
-20%
14.3%
15.0%
15.7%
16.4%
17.0%
-10%
15.0%
15.8%
16.5%
17.2%
17.8%
0%
15.8%
16.6%
17.3%
18.0%
18.6%
10%
16.5%
17.3%
18.1%
18.8%
19.4%
20%
17.2%
18.1%
18.9%
19.6%
20.2%
Sensitivity of Base IRR to Base Product Values and Productivity
(disposal at 80%, all other base parameters unchanged)
-20%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
-20%
12.6%
13.3%
13.9%
14.5%
15.1%
-10%
13.3%
14.0%
14.6%
15.2%
15.8%
0%
13.9%
14.6%
15.3%
15.9%
16.5%
10%
14.5%
15.3%
16.0%
16.6%
17.2%
20%
15.2%
16.0%
16.7%
17.3%
17.9%
Sensitivity of Base IRR to Base Product Values and Productivity
(without project harvests start at 80% of managed AAC,
all other base parameters unchanged)
-20%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
-20%
11.7%
12.1%
12.4%
12.7%
12.9%
-10%
12.1%
12.4%
12.7%
13.0%
13.2%
0%
12.4%
12.7%
13.0%
13.3%
13.5%
10%
12.7%
13.0%
13.3%
13.5%
13.7%
20%
13.0%
13.3%
13.5%
13.8%
13.9%
Sensitivity of Base IRR to Base Product Values and Productivity
(without project harvests start at 80% of managed AAC,
disposal rate at 80%, all other base parameters unchanged)
-20%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
-20%
10.2%
10.5%
10.8%
11.1%
11.3%
-10%
10.5%
10.8%
11.0%
11.3%
11.5%
0%
10.7%
11.0%
11.2%
11.4%
11.6%
10%
10.9%
11.2%
11.4%
11.6%
11.8%
20%
11.1%
11.4%
11.6%
11.8%
12.0%
Sensitivity Analysis
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Financial Evaluation of Forest Management Units
Change in Product Values Compared to Base Case
Change in Product Values Compared to Base Case
Change in Product Values Compared to Base Case
Change in Product Values Compared to Base Case
Change in 
Base 
Managed 
AAC
Change in 
Base 
Managed 
AAC
Change in 
Base 
Managed 
AAC
Change in 
Base 
Managed 
AAC
- 37 -
Page  42
Table 9.
Model Parameters
ICR Total
20.4
Investment
15.7
SCF
0.85
Recurrent
4.7
Year-by-year Distribution of Costs 
1/
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Investment Costs
0.02
0.10
0.07
0.02
0.13
0.09
0.27
0.06
0.23
Recurrent Costs
0.00
0.01
0.08
0.09
0.09
0.09
0.18
0.15
0.31
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Current Values 
2/
Investment Costs
0.4
1.6
1.1
0.3
2.1
1.4
4.2
1.0
3.6
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.1
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.8
0.7
1.5
0.9
TOTAL COSTS
0.4
1.7
1.4
0.8
2.5
1.9
5.0
1.7
5.1
0.9
Costs in mid-1992 constant values
Investment Costs
0.3
1.3
0.8
0.2
1.4
0.9
2.7
0.6
2.2
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.1
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.5
0.4
0.9
0.6
TOTAL COSTS
0.3
1.4
1.1
0.6
1.7
1.2
3.2
1.0
3.1
0.6
Economic Values (mid-1992 constant values) 
3/
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Investment Costs
0.3
1.2
0.8
0.2
1.4
0.9
2.5
0.6
2.1
0.0
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.1
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.5
0.4
0.8
0.5
TOTAL COSTS
0.3
1.3
1.0
0.5
1.6
1.2
3.1
1.0
2.9
0.5
Notes:
3/
 Assumes as at the time of the appraisal that foreign exchange constitutes 65% of total component costs. 
A standard conversion factor of 0.85 was applied to the domestic cost component of expenditures (ICR data; the SAR 
Component Costs
(Nu million)
1/
 Pattern follows expenditure pattern for Forest Management Units.
2/
 ICR mission data.  Base recurrent costs following project completion based on 2002 actuals (mid-1992 constant 
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Afforestation
- 38 -
Page  43
Table 10.
Production
Model Parameters
2500
Product Breakdown of CFMU/PCP Final Harvest 
2/
0.36
 timber
40%
1513
 poles
30%
Average Harvest Volume (m
3
/ha) 
2/
331
 fuelwood
30%
Average Thinning Volume (m
3
/ha) 
3/
30
Product Breakdown of CFMU/PCP Thinning 
3/
 timber
0%
 poles
30%
 fuelwood
70%
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
With Project Scenario
Afforested Areas 
4/
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
391
Total volumes harvested (cft)
11760
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
Total Poles (m
3
)
117
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
273
Without Project Scenario 
6/
Volumes Harvested from Unmanaged Areas
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total volumes harvested (cft)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Poles (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Notes:
1/
 Bank Staff estimates.
2/
 See FMU analysis.
3/
 Consultant's estimate.
4/
 Production is phased according to the phasing of project investments.
5/
 The total CFMU area less the area restocked that is considered here to be similar in other characteristics to FMUs.
Annual managed production from these stocked areas is estimated on the harvest of 2% of the area.  The volume harvested 
per hectare is comparable to the yields from FMUs.
6/
 The without project scenario follows the logic presented for the FMU component.
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Afforestation
Total Areas Replanted/Regenerated (ha) 
1/
Average Planting Density (trees/ha) 
1/
Planting Survival 
1/
- 39 -
Page  44
Table 10 (cont.)
YEAR
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
2038
PY
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
W
ith Project Scenario
Afforested Areas 
4/
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
1502
391
1502
4317
16595
Total volumes harvested (cft)
45207
11760
45207
129942
499517
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
0
0
1727
6638
Total Poles (m
3
)
451
117
451
1295
4979
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
1051
273
1051
1295
4979
W
ithout Project Scenario 
6/
Vo
lu
mes Harvested from Unmanaged Areas
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total volumes harvested (cft)
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Poles (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
- 40 -
Page  45
Table 11.
Model Parameters
With Project Prices 
1/
Without Project Prices 
1/
nu/m3
nu/cft
nu/m3
nu/cft
timber
1806
60
1806
60
0.12
poles
1427
47
1427
47
30.1
fuelwood
215
7
215
7
Without Project Harvesting Cost (nu/m3)
481.6
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
With Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.3
1.3
1.0
0.5
1.6
1.2
3.1
1.0
2.9
0.7
Value of Production
Timber
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Poles
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
Fuelwood
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Total Benefits 
2/
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
Net Benefits 
-0.3
-1.3
-1.0
-0.5
-1.6
-1.2
-3.1
-1.0
-2.9
-0.5
Without Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Value of Production
Timber
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Poles
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Fuelwood
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Net Benefits 
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Net Benefits
-0.3
-1.3
-1.0
-0.5
-1.6
-1.2
-3.1
-1.0
-2.9
-0.5
IRR (projected)
7.08%
Notes:
1/
 See notes to the analysis of the Forest Management Units.
2/
 Benefits accruing in years 41 through 48 are discounted relative to project year 40.
Cost and Benefit Streams
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Afforestation
discount rate
cft/m3
- 41 -
Page  46
Table 11 (cont.)
YEAR
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
2038
PY
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
With Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.7
0.2
0.7
0.0
0.0
2.1
8.0
Value of Production
Timber
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
75.3
12.0
Poles
0.6
0.2
0.6
0.0
0.0
44.6
7.1
Fuelwood
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.0
0.0
6.7
1.1
Total Benefits 
2/
0.9
0.2
0.9
0.0
0.0
126.7
20.2
Net Benefits 
0.1
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
124.6
12.2
Without Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Value of Production
Timber
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Poles
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Fuelwood
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Net Benefits 
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Net Benefits
0.1
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
124.6
- 42 -
Page  47
Table 12.
Model Parameters
2500
331
2500
30
2500
Product Breakdown of CFMU/PCP Final Harvest 
2/
0.36
 timber
40%
0.60
 poles
30%
568
 fuelwood
30%
284
Product Breakdown of CFMU/PCP Thinning 
4/
182
 timber
0%
2.4
 poles
30%
1.2
 fuelwood
70%
1.2
% Stocked CFMU Area Harvested Annually
2%
496
Initial Harvest from Unmanaged Areas (m
3
) 
2/
133
Notes:
1/
 Bank Staff estimates.
2/
 See FMU analysis.
3/ 
At average CFMU/PCP density.
4/
 Consultant's estimate.
5/
 Production is phased according to the phasing of project investments.
6/
 Production under the project is considered incremental.
Agroforestry
Production
BHUTAN
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Social Forestry
Seedlings Used on Private Lands (no million)
Aggregated Area of Private Lands Planted (ha) 
3/
Area of CFMUs Replanted (ha) 
1/
Area of PCP Established (ha)
Total Seedlings Distributed (no million)
Seedlings Used for CFMU/PCP (no million)
Private Lands Planting Density (trees/ha)
CFMU/PCP Planting Survival 
1/
Private Planting Survival 
1/
Area of CFMU Established (ha)
Average CFMU Planting Density (trees/ha) 
1/
Average Harvest Volume (m
3
/ha) 
2/
PCP Planting Density (trees/ha)
Average Thinning Volume (m
3
/ha) 
4/
- 43 -
Page  48
Table 13.
Model Parameters
2500
331
2500
30
2500
Product Breakdown of CFMU/PCP Final Harvest 
2/
0.36
 timber
40%
0.60
 poles
30%
568
 fuelwood
30%
284
Product Breakdown of CFMU/PCP Thinning 
3/
182
 timber
0%
2.4
 poles
30%
1.2
 fuelwood
70%
1.2
% Stocked CFMU Area Harvested Annually
2%
496
Initial Harvest from Unmanaged Areas (m
3
) 
2/
133
Notes:
1/
 Bank Staff estimates.
2/
 See FMU analysis.
3/
 Consultant's estimate.
4/
 Production is phased according to the phasing of project investments.
5/
 The total CFMU area less the area restocked that is considered here to be similar in other characteristics to FMUs.
Annual managed production from these stocked areas is estimated on the harvest of 2% of the area.  The volume harvested per 
hectare is comparable to the yields from FMUs.
6/
 The without project scenario follows the logic presented for the FMU component.
Seedlings Used on Private Lands (no million)
Aggregated Area of Private Lands Planted (ha)
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Social Forestry
Village Forest Management
Production
Area of CFMUs Replanted (ha) 
1/
Area of PCP Established (ha)
Total Seedlings Distributed (no million)
Seedlings Used for CFMU/PCP (no million)
Private Lands Planting Density (trees/ha)
CFMU/PCP Planting Survival 
1/
Private Planting Survival 
1/
Area of CFMU Established (ha)
Average CFMU Planting Density (trees/ha) 
1/
Average Harvest Volume (m
3
/ha) 
2/
PCP Planting Density (trees/ha)
Average Thinning Volume (m
3
/ha) 
3/
- 44 -
Page  49
Table 14.
Model Parameters
SCF
0.85
Agroforestry and VFM subcomponents
ICR Total
76.8
Investment
68.4
Recurrent
8.5
    Agroforestry
39.9
    Agroforestry
4.9
    VFM
28.4
    VFM
3.6
Year-by-year Distribution of Costs 
1/
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Investment Costs
0.02
0.10
0.07
0.02
0.13
0.09
0.27
0.06
0.23
Recurrent Costs
0.00
0.01
0.08
0.09
0.09
0.09
0.18
0.15
0.31
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Current Values 
2/
Investment Costs
1.6
7.0
4.6
1.5
9.1
6.3
18.3
4.3
15.7
    Agroforestry
1.0
4.1
2.7
0.8
5.3
3.7
10.7
2.5
9.2
    VFM
0.7
2.9
1.9
0.6
3.8
2.6
7.6
1.8
6.5
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.1
0.6
0.8
0.8
0.8
1.5
1.2
2.6
    Agroforestry
0.0
0.1
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.9
0.7
1.5
    VFM
0.0
0.1
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.6
0.5
1.1
TOTAL COSTS
1.6
7.1
5.3
2.2
9.9
7.1
19.8
5.5
18.3
Costs in mid-1992 constant values
Investment Costs
1.4
5.7
3.6
1.0
6.2
4.1
11.7
2.7
9.6
    Agroforestry
0.8
3.3
2.1
0.6
3.6
2.4
6.8
1.6
5.6
    VFM
0.6
2.4
1.5
0.4
2.6
1.7
4.9
1.1
4.0
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.1
0.5
0.6
0.5
0.5
1.0
0.8
1.6
    Agroforestry
0.0
0.1
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.6
0.4
0.9
    VFM
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.4
0.3
0.7
TOTAL COSTS
1.4
5.8
4.1
1.6
6.7
4.6
12.7
3.4
11.2
Economic Values (mid-1992 constant values) 
3/
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Investment Costs
1.4
5.4
3.4
1.0
5.9
3.9
11.1
2.5
9.1
0.0
    Agroforestry
0.8
3.2
2.0
0.6
3.4
2.3
6.5
1.5
5.3
0.0
    VFM
0.6
2.3
1.4
0.4
2.4
1.6
4.6
1.0
3.8
0.0
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.1
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.9
0.7
1.5
0.0
    Agroforestry
0.0
0.1
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.5
0.4
0.9
0.0
    VFM
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.4
0.3
0.6
0.0
TOTAL COSTS
1.4
5.5
3.9
1.5
6.4
4.4
12.0
3.3
10.6
0.0
Notes:
1/
 Pattern follows expenditure pattern for Forest Management Units.
2/
 ICR mission data.  Base recurrent costs following project completion based on 2002 actuals (mid-1992 constant values).
3/
 Assumes as at the time of the appraisal that foreign exchange constitutes 65% of total component costs. 
A standard conversion factor of 0.85 was applied to the domestic cost component of expenditures (ICR data; the SAR applied 
a factor of 0.73).
Component Costs (Nu million)
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project ICR
Economic Evaluation of Social Forestry
- 45 -
Page  50
Table 15.
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
W
ith Project Scenario
Farm Wood Production 
5/
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
213
Total volumes harvested (cft)
6424
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
Total Poles (m
3
)
64
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
149
W
ithout Project Scenario 
7/
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total volumes harvested (cft)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Poles (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Notes:
1/
 Bank Staff estimates.
2/
 See FMU analysis.
3/ 
At average CFMU/PCP density.
4/
 Consultant's estimate.
5/
 P
roduction is phased according to the phasing of project investments.
6/
 P
roduction under the project is considered incremental.
Agroforestry
Production
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Social Forestry
- 46 -
Page  51
Table 15 (cont.)
YEAR
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
2038
PY
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
With Project Scenario
Farm Wood Production 
5/
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
820
213
820
2358
9065
Total volumes harvested (cft)
24695
6424
24695
70983
272869
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
0
0
943
3626
Total Poles (m
3
)
246
64
246
707
2720
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
574
149
574
707
2720
Without Project Scenario 
7/
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total volumes harvested (cft)
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Poles (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
0
0
0
0
0
0
- 47 -
Page  52
Table 16.
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
With Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.8
3.2
2.3
0.9
3.7
2.6
7.0
1.9
6.2
0.1
Value of Wood Production
Timber
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Poles
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Fuelwood
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Wood Benefits 
2/
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Other Agro Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
Net Benefits 
-0.8
-3.2
-2.3
-0.9
-3.7
-2.6
-7.0
-1.9
-6.2
0.0
Without Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Value of Production
Timber
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Poles
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Fuelwood
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Net Benefits 
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Net Benefits
-0.8
-3.2
-2.3
-0.9
-3.7
-2.6
-7.0
-1.9
-6.2
0.0
IRR (projected)
1.28%
Notes:
2/
 Benefits accruing in years 41 through 48 are discounted relative to project year 40.
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Social Forestry
Agroforestry
Cost and Benefit Streams
(nu million)
- 48 -
Page  53
Table 16 (cont.)
YEAR
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
2038
PY
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
With Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.4
0.1
0.4
0.0
0.0
27.4
4.4
Value of Wood Production
Timber
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
41.2
6.5
Poles
0.4
0.1
0.4
0.0
0.0
24.4
3.9
Fuelwood
0.1
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
3.7
0.6
Total Wood Benefits 
2/
0.5
0.1
0.5
0.0
0.0
69.2
11.0
Other Agro Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.5
0.1
0.5
0.0
0.0
69.2
Net Benefits 
0.1
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
41.8
6.6
Without Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Value of Production
Timber
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Poles
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Fuelwood
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Net Benefits 
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Incr Net Benefits
0.1
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
41.8
- 49 -
Page  54
Table 17.
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
With Project Scenario
CFMU Production (Reforested Areas) 
4/
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
73
Total volumes harvested (cft)
2207
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
Total Poles (m
3
)
22
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
51
CFMU Production (Residutal Areas) 
5/
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
753
45
237
364
404
656
829
1333
1450
1883
Total volumes harvested (cft)
22669
1355
7123
10969
12173
19735
24944
40121
43649
56673
Total Timber (m
3
)
301
18
95
146
162
262
331
533
580
753
Total Poles (m
3
)
226
14
71
109
121
197
249
400
435
565
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
226
14
71
109
121
197
249
400
435
565
Pilot Community Plantations Production
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
47
Total volumes harvested (cft)
1415
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
Total Poles (m
3
)
14
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
33
Total CFMU/PCP Production
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
753
45
237
364
404
656
829
1333
1450
2003
Total volumes harvested (cft)
22669
1355
7123
10969
12173
19735
24944
40121
43649
60296
Total Timber (m
3
)
301
18
95
146
162
262
331
533
580
753
Total Poles (m
3
)
226
14
71
109
121
197
249
400
435
601
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
226
14
71
109
121
197
249
400
435
649
Without Project Scenario 
6/
Volumes Harvested from Unmanaged Areas
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
753
734
715
697
678
659
640
621
603
584
Total volumes harvested (cft)
22669
22103
21536
20969
20402
19836
19269
18702
18136
17569
Total Timber (m
3
)
301
294
286
279
271
264
256
249
241
233
Total Poles (m
3
)
226
220
215
209
203
198
192
186
181
175
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
226
220
215
209
203
198
192
186
181
175
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Social Forestry
Village Forest Management
Production
- 50 -
Page  55
Table 17 (cont.)
YEAR
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
2038
PY
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
With Project Scenario
CFMU Production (Reforested Areas) 
4/
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
282
73
282
810
3115
Total volumes harvested (cft)
8486
2207
8486
24391
93763
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
0
0
324
1246
Total Poles (m
3
)
85
22
85
243
935
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
197
51
197
243
935
CFMU Production (Residutal Areas) 
5/
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
1883
1883
1883
1883
1883
1883
Total volumes harvested (cft)
56673
56673
56673
56673
56673
56673
Total Timber (m
3
)
753
753
753
753
753
753
Total Poles (m
3
)
565
565
565
565
565
565
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
565
565
565
565
565
565
Pilot Community Plantations Production
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
181
47
181
519
1996
Total volumes harvested (cft)
5438
1415
5438
15631
60087
Total Timber (m
3
)
0
0
0
208
799
Total Poles (m
3
)
54
14
54
156
599
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
126
33
126
156
599
Total CFMU/PCP Production
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
2345
2003
2345
1883
1883
3212
5111
Total volumes harvested (cft)
70597
60296
70597
56673
56673
96695
153850
Total Timber (m
3
)
753
753
753
753
753
1285
2045
Total Poles (m
3
)
704
601
704
565
565
964
1533
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
889
649
889
565
565
964
1533
Without Project Scenario 
6/
Volumes Harvested from Unmanaged Areas
Total volumes harvested (m
3
)
490
395
301
207
113
19
Total volumes harvested (cft)
14735
11901
9068
6234
3400
567
Total Timber (m
3
)
196
158
121
83
45
8
Total Poles (m
3
)
147
119
90
62
34
6
Total Fuelwood (m
3
)
147
119
90
62
34
6
Notes:
1/
 Bank Staff estimates.
2/
 See FMU analysis.
3/
 Consultant's estimate.
5/
 The total CFMU area less the area restocked that is considered here to be similar in other characteristics to 
FMUs. Annual managed production from these stocked areas is estimated on the harvest of 2% of the area.  
The volume harvested per hectare is comparable to the yields from FMUs.
6/
 The without project scenario follows the logic presented for the FMU component.
4/
 Production is phased according to the phasing of project investments.
- 51 -
Page  56
Table 18.
Model Parameters
W
ith Project Prices 
1/
W
ithout Project Prices 
1/
nu/m3
nu/cft
nu/m3
nu/cft
timber
1806
60
1806
60
0.12
poles
1427
47
1427
47
30.1
fuelwood
215
7
215
7
W
ithout Project Harvesting Cost (nu/m3)
481.6
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
W
ith Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.6
2.3
1.6
0.6
2.7
1.8
5.0
1.4
4.4
1.4
Value of Production
Timber
0.5
0.0
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.5
0.6
1.0
1.0
1.4
Poles
0.3
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.6
0.6
0.9
Fuelwood
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
Total Benefits 
2/
0.9
0.1
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.8
1.0
1.6
1.8
2.4
Net Benefits 
0.3
-2.2
-1.3
-0.2
-2.2
-1.0
-4.0
0.3
-2.7
1.0
W
ithout Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
Value of Production
Timber
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
Poles
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
Fuelwood
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.7
Net Benefits 
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
Incr Net Benefits
-0.2
-2.8
-1.8
-0.7
-2.7
-1.5
-4.5
-0.2
-3.1
0.6
IRR (projected)
5.04%
Notes:
1/
 See notes to the analysis of the Forest Management Units.
2/
 Benefits accruing in years 41 through 48 are discounted relative to project year 40.
discount rate
cft/
m3
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Social Forestry
Village Forest Management
Cost and Benefit Streams
(nu million)
- 52 -
Page  57
Table 18 (cont.)
YEAR
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
2038
PY
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
With Project Scenario
Total Costs
1.5
1.0
1.1
0.9
0.9
16.4
2.5
Value of Production
Timber
1.4
1.4
1.4
1.4
1.4
24.6
3.7
Poles
1.0
0.9
1.0
0.8
0.8
14.6
2.2
Fuelwood
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.1
0.1
2.2
0.3
Total Benefits 
2/
2.6
2.4
2.6
2.3
2.3
41.3
6.2
Net Benefits 
1.0
1.4
1.4
1.4
1.4
24.9
3.7
Without Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
Value of Production
Timber
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.0
Poles
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
Fuelwood
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.1
0.0
Net Benefits 
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.0
Incr Net Benefits
0.7
1.1
1.2
1.2
1.3
24.9
- 53 -
Page  58
Table 19.
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
With Project Scenario
Total Costs
1.4
5.5
3.9
1.5
6.4
4.4
12.0
3.3
10.6
1.5
Total Wood Benefits
0.9
0.1
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.8
1.0
1.6
1.8
2.5
Other Agroforestry Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.9
0.1
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.8
1.0
1.6
1.8
2.5
With Project Net Benefits
-0.4
-5.5
-3.6
-1.1
-5.9
-3.6
-11.0
-1.6
-8.9
1.0
Without Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
Total Wood Benefits
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
Other Agroforestry Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
Without Project Net Benefits
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
Incremental Net Benefits
-0.6
-5.7
-3.8
-1.3
-6.1
-3.8
-11.2
-1.8
-9.0
0.9
IRR (projected)
3.36%
Aggregated Costs and Benefits
(nu million)
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Social Forestry
- 54 -
Page  59
Table 19 (cont.)
YEAR
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
PY
15
20
25
30
35
40
With Project Scenario
Total Costs
1.9
1.1
1.5
0.9
0.9
43.8
Total Wood Benefits
3.0
2.5
3.0
2.3
2.3
110.5
Other Agroforestry Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
3.0
2.5
3.0
2.3
2.3
110.5
With Project Net Benefits
1.1
1.4
1.5
1.4
1.4
66.7
Without Project Scenario
Total Costs
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
Total Wood Benefits
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.0
Other Agroforestry Benefits
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.0
Without Project Net Benefits
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
Incremental Net Benefits
1.0
1.3
1.4
1.3
1.4
66.7
- 55 -
Page  60
Table 20.
Model Parameters
ICR Total
140.2
Investment
127.3
SCF
0.85
Recurrent
12.9
Year-by-year Distribution of Costs 
1/
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Investment Costs
0.02
0.10
0.07
0.02
0.13
0.09
0.27
0.06
0.23
Recurrent Costs
0.00
0.01
0.08
0.09
0.09
0.09
0.18
0.15
0.31
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Current Values 
2/
Investment Costs
3.0
13.0
8.6
2.7
17.0
11.7
34.1
7.9
29.3
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.2
1.0
1.2
1.2
1.2
2.3
1.9
4.0
4.0
TOTAL COSTS
3.0
13.1
9.6
3.9
18.2
12.9
36.3
9.8
33.2
4.0
Costs in mid-1992 constant values
Investment Costs
2.7
10.7
6.7
2.0
11.6
7.7
21.8
5.0
17.9
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.2
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
1.4
1.2
2.4
2.4
TOTAL COSTS
2.7
10.8
7.4
2.8
12.4
8.4
23.3
6.1
20.3
2.4
Economic Values (mid-1992 constant values) 
3/
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003+
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10+
Investment Costs
2.5
10.1
6.3
1.9
10.9
7.3
20.7
4.7
16.9
0.0
Recurrent Costs
0.0
0.1
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.8
1.4
1.1
2.3
2.3
TOTAL COSTS
2.5
10.3
7.0
2.7
11.7
8.0
22.0
5.8
19.3
2.3
Notes:
1/
 Pattern follows expenditure pattern for Forest Management Units.
2/
 ICR mission data.  Base recurrent costs following project completion based on 2002 actuals (mid-1992 constant values).
3/
 Assumes as at the time of the appraisal that foreign exchange constitutes 65% of total component costs. 
A standard conversion factor of 0.85 was applied to the domestic cost component of expenditures (ICR data; the SAR applied a
 factor of 0.73).
Component Costs
(Nu million)
Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project
ICR
Economic Evaluation of Institutional Strengthening
- 56 -
Page  61
Table 21.
Model Area
YEAR
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
PY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
With Project Scenario
Total Costs
FMU
3.6
10.5
7.8
3.4
12.6
8.8
23.6
6.9
21.6
4.4
Social Forestry
1.4
5.5
3.9
1.5
6.4
4.4
12.0
3.3
10.6
1.5
Afforestation
0.3
1.3
1.0
0.5
1.6
1.2
3.1
1.0
2.9
0.7
Total Costs
5.3
17.4
12.7
5.5
20.6
14.4
38.7
11.2
35.2
6.6
Total Benefits
FMU
6.6
3.1
10.2
8.8
8.7
13.4
13.6
21.0
17.6
18.1
Social Forestry
0.9
0.1
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.8
1.0
1.6
1.8
2.5
Afforestation
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
7.5
3.1
10.5
9.2
9.2
14.2
14.6
22.7
19.3
20.8
Net Benefits With
2.2
-14.2
-2.2
3.8
-11.4
-0.2
-24.1
11.5
-15.8
14.2
Without Project Scenario
Total Costs
FMU
1.1
1.0
2.2
1.7
1.6
2.5
2.0
2.5
2.0
2.0
Social Forestry
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
Afforestation
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Costs
1.4
1.4
2.6
2.1
1.9
2.8
2.3
2.8
2.3
2.3
Total Benefits
FMU
6.6
6.4
13.9
10.7
9.8
15.4
12.1
15.5
12.6
12.6
Social Forestry
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
Afforestation
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
7.1
7.0
14.4
11.2
10.3
15.9
12.6
15.9
13.1
13.0
Net Benefits Without
5.7
5.6
11.8
9.1
8.4
13.1
10.3
13.1
10.7
10.7
Incremental Costs
3.9
16.0
10.1
3.4
18.7
11.6
36.4
8.4
32.9
4.3
Incremental Benefits
0.4
-3.8
-3.9
-2.0
-1.1
-1.7
2.0
6.7
6.3
7.8
Incremental Net Benefits
-3.5
-19.8
-14.0
-5.4
-19.9
-13.3
-34.4
-1.6
-26.6
3.5
ERR exluding Institutional Strengthening
14%
Institutional Strengthening Costs
2.5
10.3
7.0
2.7
11.7
8.0
22.0
5.8
19.3
2.3
Incremental Net Benefits
-6.1
-30.0
-21.0
-8.0
-31.6
-21.3
-56.4
-7.4
-45.9
1.2
ERR including Institutional Strengehening
11%
Economic Evaluation
Total Project Benefit and Cost Streams
(Nu million)
Bhutan
Third Forestry Project
Implementation Completion Report
- 57 -
Page  62
Table 21 (cont.)
YEAR
2008
2013
2018
2023
2028
2033
PY
15
20
25
30
35
40
W
ith Project Scenario
Total Costs
FMU
4.4
4.4
4.4
4.4
4.4
4.4
Social Forestry
1.9
1.1
1.5
0.9
0.9
43.8
Afforestation
0.7
0.2
0.7
0.0
0.0
2.1
Total Costs
7.1
5.7
6.7
5.3
5.3
50.3
Total Benefits
FMU
47.0
47.0
47.0
47.0
47.0
3084.5
Social Forestry
3.0
2.5
3.0
2.3
2.3
110.5
Afforestation
0.9
0.2
0.9
0.0
0.0
126.7
50.9
49.7
50.9
49.3
49.3
3321.8
Net Benefits With
43.8
44.0
44.2
44.0
44.0
3271.4
W
ithout Project Scenario
Total Costs
FMU
2.0
1.6
1.2
0.8
0.5
0.1
Social Forestry
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
Afforestation
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Costs
2.2
1.8
1.4
0.9
0.5
0.1
Total Benefits
FMU
12.2
9.9
7.5
5.2
2.8
0.5
Social Forestry
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.0
Afforestation
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Total Benefits
12.6
10.2
7.7
5.3
2.9
0.5
Net Benefits Without
10.4
8.4
6.4
4.4
2.4
0.4
Incremental Costs
4.9
3.9
5.3
4.4
4.8
50.2
Incremental Benefits
38.3
39.6
43.2
44.0
46.4
3321.3
Incremental Net Benefits
33.5
35.7
37.9
39.6
41.6
3271.0
Institutional Strengthening Costs
2.3
2.3
2.3
2.3
2.3
2.3
Incremental Net Benefits
31.1
33.4
35.5
37.3
39.3
3268.7
- 58 -
Page  63
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle
Performance Rating
 No. of Persons and Specialty
 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Month/Year
  Count 
    Specialty
Implementation
Progress
Development
Objective
Identification/Preparation
09/18/1989
2
Economist, Forester
02/21/1990
11/03/1991
05/07/1992
3
3
6
Economist, Forester, SDC
Economist, Forester, SDC
Forester, Social Forester
Forest Industries Specialist
Economist, Environmental 
Specialist, SDC
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/07/1992
10/20/1992
6
5
Forester, Social Forester
Forest Industries Specialist, 
Economist, Environmental 
Specialist, SDC
Forester, Procurement, 
Economist, SDC
Supervision
10/30/1993
4
SOCIAL FORESTER (1); 
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1); 
AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1); 
FORESTER (1)
1
1
05/13/1994
2
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1); 
AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1)
1
1
11/24/1994
4
SOCIAL FORESTER (1); SR. 
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1); 
PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1); 
SR. FORESTER (1)
S
HS
04/01/1995
2
FORESTRY (2)
S
S
11/08/1995
5
SOCIAL FORESTER (1); 
FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1); 
FORESTER (2); ECONOMIST 
(1)
S
S
05/19/1996
3
FORESTER (1); SOCIAL 
FORESTER (2)
S
S
05/19/1996
3
FORESTER (1); SOCIAL 
FORESTER (2)
S
S
05/29/1997
2
MISSION LEADER (1); 
SOCIAL FORESTER-SDC (1)
S
S
02/25/1998
6
MISS. LEADER/FORESTER 
(1); FINANCIAL ANALYST 
S
S
- 59 -
Page  64
(1); ENVIRONMENTALIST (1); 
ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL 
FORESTER-SDC (1); 
FORESTER - SDC (1)
12/21/1998
6
MISSION LEADER (1); 
ECOLOGIST (1); FORESTER 
(2); SOCIAL FORESTER (1); 
FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
S
S
03/06/1999
2
MISSION LEADER (1); 
FORESTER (1)
S
S
10/13/1999
6
TL/MISSION LEADER (1); 
CO-TL/FORESTER (1); 
FORESTER (1); SOCIAL 
FORESTER (1); FINANCIAL 
SPECIALIST (1); FOREST 
ECONOMIST, CONS (1)
S
S
06/05/2000
5
ECONOMIST (1); 
FORESTER/M&E (1); 
FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1); 
SDC-SOCIAL FORESTER (1); 
SDC-FORESTER (1)
S
S
12/21/2000
3
NAT. RES. ECON (1); 
FORESTER (SDC) (1); FIN. 
MGT. SPEC. (1)
S
U
12/21/2000
5
TASK LEADER (1); 
FORESTER (1); FINANCIAL 
MGT SPEC. (1); FORESTER / 
SDC (1); SOCIAL FORESTER / 
SDC (1)
S
S
11/07/2001
4
TEAM LEADER (1); FIN. 
MGMT. SPECIALIST (1); 
SOCIAL FORESTER (1); SR. 
FORESTRY ADVISOR (1)
S
S
04/16/2002
4
TASK TEAM LEADER (1); 
FMS (1); SENIOR FORESTRY 
ADV. (1); SR. NAT. RES. 
SPEC. (1)
S
S
ICR
10/21/02
5
ICR TEAM LEADER (1); 
ECONOMIST (1); FMS (1); 
SENIOR FORESTRY ADV. 
(1); SOCIAL FORESTER 
(1)
S
S
- 60 -
Page  65
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle
Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks
US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
89.2
121.1
Appraisal/Negotiation
80.5
113.4
Supervision
176.92
603
ICR
18
64
Total 
364.62
901.5
- 61 -
Page  66
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
 Rating
Macro policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Sector Policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Physical
H
SU
M
N
NA
Financial
H
SU
M
N
NA
Institutional Development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Environmental
H
SU
M
N
NA
Social
Poverty Reduction
H
SU
M
N
NA
Gender
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
To provide benefits to local communities 
through improved access to forest resources
Private sector development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Public sector management
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
- 62 -
Page  67
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(
HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
Lending
HS
S
U
HU
Supervision
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
6.2  Borrower performance
Rating
Preparation
HS
S
U
HU
Government implementation performance
HS
S
U
HU
Implementation agency performance
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
- 63 -
Page  68
Annex 7. 
List of Supporting Documents
Bhutan - Private sector survey 
Report# 24975
Bhutan - Country assistance strategy 
Report# 20158
Forestry Institutional Development Initiative - final report on file in IRIS
TFDP Technical Assistance Reports - various on file in IRIS
Project Completion Report, September 2000 by Ministry of Agriculture and Third Forestry Development 
Project
- 64 -
Page  69
- 65 -
