4E0OFFICIAL
WCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2533 BHU
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Forestry Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   Au9ust     11     '993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2533 BHU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        LA0ST    11                 , 1993,
between KINGDOM OF BHUTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the   Swiss   Confederation   (Switzerland)   a  non-reimbursable
contribution in an amount of four million seventy thousand Swiss
Francs (SwF 4,070,000) (the Swiss Contribution) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and Switzerland; and
(C)   Switzerland intends to appoint the Association to
administer the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provisions
of the Procedural Arrangements, dated May 9, 1990, between
Switzerland and the Association (the Procedural Arrangements); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development  Credit   Agreements"   of  the   Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means the area comprising the Dzongkhags
(districts) of Mongar, Lhuntshi, Tashigang, Tashiyangtse, Pemagatsel
and Samdrup Jongkhar;
(b)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(c)   "PPD" means MOA's Planning and Policy Division;
(d)   "DOF" means the Borrower's Department of Forestry;
(e)   "NEC"  means  the   Borrower's  National  Environment
Commission;
(f)   "PFO" means the Projdct Facilitation Office which has
been established by the Borrower at Khangma in the Tashigang
District for the purposes of externally-funded projects, including
the Project;
(9)   "A/R" means afforestation/reforestation;
(h)   "Special Accounts" mean the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and "Special Account" means each
and any of those accounts;
(i)   "Swiss  Contribution   Account"  means   the  account
established by Switzerland for the purposes of the Swiss
Contribution;
(j)   "Ngultrums" means the currency of the Borrower;
(k)   "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year covering
the period July 1 through June 30; and
(1)   "Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
(b)   Except  as  the  Association  and  Switzerland  shall
otherwise agree or to the extent the Swiss contribution Agreement
may otherwise specify, the allocation and the procedures for
withdrawals of the Swiss Contribution shall be governed, mutatis
mutandis, by the provisions of the General Conditions.
(c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Ngultrums two special deposit accounts, one for
the Credit and the other for the Swiss Contribution, in the Bank of
Bhutan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this kgreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-4-
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
January 1, 2004 and ending July 1, 2033. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on July 1, 2013 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the


﻿-5-
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and forestry practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services,
staff and other resources required for the Project.
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,  as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the  Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account were made
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to  be   maintained,  in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal


﻿-7-
from   the  Credit   Account   or   the  Swiss
Contribution Account or payment out of the
Special   Accounts  was   made,   all  records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing   such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts      are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than August 31,
1994, furnish to the Association, for its review and comment, a
recommendation on the management and operational arrangements it
intends to adopt for its national forest management units, and shall
thereafter but not later than July 1, 1995, implement such
arrangements taking into account the views of the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)   carry out forest product pricing and marketing policy
reforms satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)   to that end, not later than July 1, 1994, agree with the
Association  on,   and  thereafter  implement,   an  action  plan
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not  later  than March   31, 1994,   furnish to   the
Association, for its review and comment, a detailed plan for the
privatization of seedling production and distribution; and
(b)   thereafter but not later than July 1, 1994, implement
such plan as revised to take into account the views of the
Association.


﻿ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
(a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Swiss Contribution made
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Swiss Contribution Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(b)   the proposed new Social Forestry Rules have been adopted
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.03. In the event that Switzerland or the Association
terminates the functions of the Association pursuant to paragraph 9
of the Procedural Arrangements, the Association shall notify the
Borrower promptly of the date on which Switzerland shall assume the
rights and obligations of the Association under this Agreement in
respect of the Swiss Contrio"tion.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Tashichhodzong
Thimphu,-Kingdom of Bhutan
Cable address:                 Telex:
MINISTRY OF               890-201
FINANCE
THIMPHU, BHUTAN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
By/I/RK
By      Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
y/s    Ai        Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the
Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount
Amount            of the
of the            Swiss
Credit         Contribution        % of
Allocated         Allocated       Expendi-
(Expressed        (Expressed       tures
in SDR            in SwF          to be
Category     Equivalent)       Equivalent)       Financed
(1) Civil and       1,090,000                        95%
plantation
works
(2) Equipment,      1,370,000                        100% of
vehicles                                          foreign
and materials                                     expendi-
tures,
100% of
local
expendi-
tures (ex-
factory
cost) and
85% of
local expen-
ditures for
other items
procured
locally


﻿- 12 -
Amount
Amount            of the
of the            Swiss
Credit         Contribution       % of
Allocated         Allocated       Expendi-
(Expressed        (Expressed       tures
in SDR            in SwF         to be
Category     Equivalent)       Equivalent)      Financed
(3) Consultants'                      4,070,000      100%
services
and training
(4) Incremental     1,010,000                        62%
staff salaries
and other
incremental
operating
costs
(5) Unallocated       430,000
TOTAL      3,900,000         4,070,000
2.    For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the  term  "incremental  staff  salaries   and  other
incremental operating costs" means the salaries of staff appointed
to positions created, and the operating costs associated with
equipment and vehicles procured, after July 15, 1993 for the
purposes of carrying out the Project.


﻿- 13 -
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the
Borrower's  efforts  to  develop   an  approach  for   sustainable
protection, management and use of its forest resources in line with
its national development plans; and (b) to that end, to establish in
the Project Area the necessary mechanisms for (i) carrying out of
sustainable forest management in selected government forest areas;
(ii) involvement of local people in the rehabilitation of degraded
forest areas and their subsequent management; (iii) integration of
trees into farming systems thereby improving the viability of the
local economy; (iv) introduction of a criteria-based approach to
afforestation and reforestation (A/R); and (v) strengthening of the
government's capacity for effective and efficient implementation of
such programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     National Forest Management
1.    Taking of detailed forest resource inventory and preparation
and implementation of forest management plans for four selected
sites covering a total area of about 21,500 ha. to meet local timber
and fuelwood needs on a sustainable yield basis, including the
establishment of distribution depots.
2.    Carrying out of an overall forest resource assessment to
facilitate the extension of the concept of planned forest management
to other sites in the Project Area.
Part B:     Social Forestry
1.    Establishment of village forest management, including the
organization of rural communities to improve and manage selected
government forest land sites handed over to them for their use, the
preparation of village forest management plans and the provision of
village forest extension services.
2.    Carrying out of agroforestry activities, including the
establishment of private nurseries for seedling production, the
establishment  of   demonstration  nurseries   and   demonstration


﻿- 15 -
plantation areas and the preparation and distribution of extension
packages for farm forestry, all with a view to introducing fodder
and fuelwood trees on farmlands.
Part C:     Afforestation/Reforestation
Natural regeneration and establishment of plantations with
suitable species in selected ecologically critical areas, including
development of appropriate technologies for seed resource selection,
seed collection, storage and testing, advanced nursery operations,
site selection, site and species matching, planting and tending,
grazing management and fire control.
Part D:     Institutional Strencthening
Strengthening of:
(1)   PPD's planning and policy analysis capability; and
(2)   DOF's project implementation capabilities both at the
central and divisional levels, in particular in relation to the
Project Facilitation Office (PFO).
T   * i
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.


﻿- 16 -
SCREDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    All plantation works, and certain minor civil works estimated
to cost up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be
carried out by force account.
2.    All other civil works may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Equipment, vehicles and materials may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines
or after direct negotiations with suppliers, all in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and each contract for
equipment, vehicles and materials estimated to cost the equivalent
of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Accounts in
respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be


﻿- 17 -
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single-source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Project Facilitation Office (PFO) shall be: (a) generally
responsible for approving and overseeing all field activities to be
carried out under the Project; and (b) specifically responsible for
activities to be carried out for strengthening DOF's Divisional
Forest Offices under Part D (2) of the Project and, through a
regional Forest Management Division to be established within PFO not
later than January 1, 1994, for assisting in the preparation and
implementation of forest management plans under Part A.1 of the
Project. To these ends, the Project Facilitation Officer heading PFO
shall act as the Project Manager and shall be assisted by an
Assistant Project Facilitation Officer (Forestry), who shall be of
the rank of a Senior Forestry Officer.
2.    The Borrower shall, with respect to the A/R activities to be
carried out under Part C of the Project:
(a)   not later than July 31 in each fiscal year, agree with
the Association on the program of such activities to be carried out
in the next following fiscal year; and
(b)   ensure that no such activities will be permitted to be
carried out unless they satisfy one or more of the following
criteria:
(i)   they shall have a clear objective which will be
either to (aa) protect village/township water
sources; or (bb) protect settlement sites,
infrastructure and agricultural property; or (cc)
supply the timber, fuelwood, fodder and grazing
needs of the local village or township; or (dd)
remedy   incipient   soil   erosion   or   slope
degradation problems;
(ii)   they shall make cost-effective use of appropriate
technology to produce products or to provide
services;
(iii)   they shall promote participation by local persons
in   the   sharing  of   benefits,   costs   and
responsibilities;


﻿- 19 -
(iv)   they shall be based upon a careful matching of
species with site characteristics; and
(v)   they shall have proximity or functional relevance
to a demand center.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that NEC will annually monitor the
environmental aspects of the Project in accordance with a
memorandum of understanding, to be signed between NEC and MOA not
later than December 31, 1993, setting out the scope and modalities
of such monitoring in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Borrower shall, at least once every other year, starting
with 1995, organize a meeting of the key donors involved in the
forestry sector in order to assess the contribution of the Project
in achieving the objectives of the Borrower's Forestry Sector
Program Framework.
5.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association semi-annual
progress reports on the Project, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association, not later than March 31 and September 30 in each
year.
6.    The  Borrower  shall, jointly with the Association      and
Switzerland and not later than December 31, 1996, carry out and
complete a mid-term review of the Project, and shall, thereafter
make such adjustments in the activities being carried out under the
Project and the related organizational and operational arrangements,
including the technical assistance requirements of the Project, as
may be warranted in the light of such review and agreed with the
Association.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Swiss Contribution allocated from time to time td the eligible
categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized AllocAion" means (i) for the
Credit an amount equivalent to $100,000, and (ii) for the Swiss
Contribution an amount of SwF 150,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account, respectively, and
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account, as the case may
be, and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association


﻿- 21 -
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss
Contribution Account, as the case may be, and
deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the
Swiss Contribution, as the case may be, allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amounz of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the


﻿- 22 -
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Swiss
Contribution Account, as the case may be, of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Swiss Contribution, as the
case may be, allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special 'Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account, as the case may be, for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the-
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


