Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4207 
Operation Name 
Philippines GFRP DPO 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Other social services (80%); Agricultural marketing and trade 
(20%) 
Project ID 
P113492 
Borrower(s) 
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
Implementing Agency 
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
October 7, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 7, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
November 21, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The Philippines has seen strong economic growth in recent years. GDP growth which averaged 
5.4 percent during 2003-2006, reached 7.2 percent in 2007, the highest growth in three decades. 
Inflation also remained muted until the first half of 2008 and performance of the external sector 
has also been strong. The strong growth performance can be broadly attributed to significant 
fiscal consolidation since 2003, which has resulted in enhanced macroeconomic stability and 
improving investor confidence.  
 
The recent sharp rise in the price of rice has, however, exposed the vulnerability of the 
Philippines to global food shocks. The Philippines has, on average, imported about 10 percent of 
its rice consumption, and it is the single largest rice importer in the world. Household 
expenditure data reveals that an average household spends about 40 percent of total expenditures 
on food while the poorest households spend about 60 percent on food, of which a third is 
consumed on rice. The rise in food costs, combined with rising fuel prices, is thus expected to 
have contributed to a sharp increase in poverty despite strong economic growth. In particular, the 
18 percent increase in all food items in 2008 may have increased poverty by 3.6 percentage 
points, equivalent to about 3 million people. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Food Crisis Response Development Policy Operation (DPO) aims to support the 
Government of the Philippines in addressing the challenges of high food prices in the short and 
medium term, particularly by supporting measures to strengthen social protection and safety nets 
to protect poor and vulnerable households. The operation focuses on emergency measures that 
the Government took to immediately mitigate the impact of the rice price shock on consumers, as 
well as the steps taken to put in place an improved social protection system to cushion the poor 
from future shocks. The operation also 
responds to the Government’s request for quick 
disbursing budget support to help finance higher than the programmed expenditures for food-
crisis-related expenditures. 
Page  2
The proposed DPO consists of four components, which include (i) supporting Government social 
protection measures undertaken by Government to stabilize domestic food prices and mitigate 
the impact of high food prices on poor households; (ii) improving policy coordination in social 
protection, (iii) enhancing the impact of targeted social protection programs through improved 
targeting, and (iv) establishing a Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) program as the main vehicle 
to improve the efficiency and impact of social protection programs and increase transparency 
and accountability of government agencies to deliver requisite services. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has put into place a Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP) to provide quick 
support to countries that have been subjected to the sharp increase in food prices.  Having 
decided to enhance its social protection programs and also decided to increase spending to do so, 
the Government sought assistance from the World Bank.  Through the GFRP, the Bank has been 
well placed to respond quickly to the Government’s request. 
 
Moreover, the focus of this Development Policy Operation is in the area of social protection, 
where the Bank has a comparative advantage in providing support given its vast global 
experience in this area.  In particular, the Bank has already been involved working with the 
Department of Social Welfare and Development in providing technical assistance and policy 
advice on this agenda.   
 
In addition, this proposed operation falls in line with the overall objectives of the Bank’s CAS to 
foster increased social inclusion and better governance.  It also benefits from its close link to 
several other ongoing World Bank regular lending and AAA program under the current CAS and 
across several sectors, including social protection, agriculture and rural development, human 
development sectors, and macroeconomic policy.  The proposed DPO’s support to strengthen the 
targeting system for social protection expenditures, for instance, would contribute to the 
objectives of fiscal consolidation and enhanced governance through more efficient allocation and 
increased transparency of government expenditures over the medium term. The proposed 
operation is also relevant to the Bank’s support to other reform areas as in education (through the 
Basic Education Sector Reform Agenda) and health (National Sector Support for Health 
Reform).  
 
Given the complexity of the reform agenda on food policy and its political economy, consensus 
on long-term reforms will take time to develop in this area. However, the Bank and Government 
recognize that the advancement of social protection policies supported in this operation will 
facilitate moving on the difficult agenda of food policy reforms and food subsidies.  The Bank 
will continue to engage Government, through its AAA and policy dialogue, on strategic options 
for reform in this complex area. 
Page  3
4. Financing 
 
The proposed DPO is a stand-alone operation that would provide US$200 million in program 
assistance und
er the World Bank’s Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP) facility. The 
operation is a single tranche operation that will fully disburse upon effectiveness. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Department of Finance is the primary liaison with the World Bank on budget support 
operations but policy dialogue, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation will be 
undertaken primarily with the Department of Social Welfare and Development.  Department of 
Education, the National Nutrition Council, and the Department of Agriculture, along with NEDA 
and the Department of Budget Management are also involved in the policy dialogue on this 
important issue. 
 
The loan amount (US$200 million) will be fully disbursed to the Central Bank (Bangko Sentral 
ng Pilipinas) upon loan effectiveness, as all policy actions supported by the loan would have 
been completed prior to Board presentation.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
·
Benefits  
 
The food crisis has raised awareness among many in Government of the Philippines about the 
inefficiencies inherent in the social protection system and the current food policy regime. In 
response, the Government took several measures to try to stabilize the increase in domestic retail 
prices while also scaling up existing social protection programs to improve their effectiveness 
with the view of protecting poorer households from the price shock. This DPO supports such 
measures that the Government has recently taken to address the challenges raised by the recent 
food crisis.  
 
In the short-term, it is expected that these measures will benefit consumers through lower and 
more stable domestic (and international) retail price of rice and, more importantly, poorer 
households through increased benefit from government subsidies and other social protection 
programs as a result of improved targeting. Meanwhile, in the broader context, it is expected that 
measures supported by this operation will lead to achieving five main goals of: (1) reduction and 
stabilization of domestic and international food prices; (2) mitigation of short-term impacts of 
high food (and fuel) prices on poor households; (3) improved policy coordination and 
institutional arrangements for social protection; (4) improved targeting of poor households; and 
(5) improved impact, efficiency, and efficacy of social safety nets through a comprehensive CCT 
program.  
 
The Philippines has been operating and implementing social protection programs without a clear 
strategy. This operation is expected to strengthen the governance and transparency of the 
Government’s social protection programs through the adoption of an objective, transparent, and 
Page  4
credible proxy means test based household targeting system to identify program beneficiaries. 
Likewise, measures to support the institutional policy coordination are intended to improve 
governance of the social protection “sector”. Meanwhile, the adoption of a Conditional Cash 
Transfer program has been shown in other countries to improve overall governance in the sector.  
CCT programs rely heavily on increasing accountability of households in meeting health and 
education “co-responsibilities”, increasing the accountability of government to deliver services, 
and improving the transparency and oversight of social protection programs. 
 
·
Risks 
 
The operation and the Government’s reform program are also subject to disruption based on 
several risks, however, these are considered acceptable in the context of proposed mitigation 
measures.  
 
Macroeconomic and fiscal risks posed by the recent financial turmoil are expected to remain 
manageable given the fiscal reforms and strong current accounts in the last few years. Critical to 
sustaining this macro-fiscal outlook, however, is the sustainability of tax revenues To mitigate 
the revenue risk, the government has stepped up tax administration reforms, including third party 
check of taxpayer information and the ‘Run after Tax Evaders’ program.  The Bank’s National 
Program Support for Tax Administration Reform Project (NPSTAR) project is also supporting 
the tax administration reform. 
 
Weak institutional capacity is likely to be the greatest risk to proposed reforms in the area of 
social protection. Institutional capacity is required to undertake roll-out of targeting system and 
of the Conditional Cash Transfer program. This risk will be mitigated by the recruitment of 
additional staff at DSWD.  Furthermore, mitigation measures include TA being provided to 
DSWD and a potential investment loan to increase support to these key elements of the agenda 
of reform in social protection.   
 
Political manipulation of targeting and subsidy programs supported remains a risk requiring 
ongoing mitigation.  A particular area of vulnerability is the choice of geographic areas selected 
for program implementation. This risk will be mitigated by public disclosure of the rules or 
criteria for prioritizing new geographic areas to be covered by programs such as the CCT and 
Food for School. Moreover, third-party monitoring of programs, such as the CCT, are also 
intended to mitigate this risk. Another risk to the program is possible resistance to the 
administration’s program and proposed budget by Congress. However, to date Congress has been 
largely supportive of the social protection measures directly supported by this operation.   
 
Weaknesses in the Philippine public financial management (PFM) remain substantial and poses 
risks to the implementation of the program this operation supports, but the Philippines has shown 
its commitment in the last several years to strengthening various aspects of PFM. The Bank is 
working on mitigating some of these risks through its continued work and technical assistance to 
the Department of Finance, Department of Budget Managemen
t
and the Commission of Audit.  
The DPL series has continued to support this agenda, including procurement reform, as have the 
Bank’s sector reform projects (National Programs of Support) that work directly with line 
agencies in improving country systems.  
Page  5
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
The proposed operation and the measures it supports, with its focus on social protection and 
safety nets is expected to have positive impacts in mitigating the poverty and social impacts of 
the food crisis.  Most importantly, the measures supported by the operation are expected to 
mitigate poverty and social impacts through: (i) lowering the price of food (particularly rice), 
through price stabilization interventions and the provision of subsidized rice to poor households; 
(ii) improving the targeting of existing subsidies to the poor; and (iii) launching a conditional 
cash transfer program. Although at a high fiscal cost, the Government intervention in these areas 
has arguably also helped contain any social risks that might have led to food riots or political 
instability due to the large increase in food prices. 
 
It is estimated that the rice price stabilization policies of the government had resulted to a 10 
percent reduction in the price of rice.  Analysis would indicate that had this mitigation not taken 
place and had prices risen by another 10 percent, poverty incidence would have increased 
nationally by an additional 1 percentage point, or close to an additional 0.9 million people would 
have fallen into poverty. In addition, negative poverty and social impacts of food price increases 
were mitigated to the extent that the Government provided subsidized rice to consumers. This 
action by the Government is estimated to have reduced poverty incidence by 1.4 percentage 
points and the income gap by 0.8 percentage points at the time of the crisis. The proposed 
operation’s support towards improving targeting of subsidies to poor households and putting into 
place an accurate household targeting system will, also enhance the poverty reducing impact of 
existing programs (such as subsidized NFA rice) or new programs (such as the conditional cash 
transfer) as well as the cost efficiency of social protection programs designed to help the poor. 
 
Meanwhile, the CCT program being put in place is expected to have significant impacts in 
reducing poverty and improving human capital outcome of children in beneficiary areas through 
increased school attendance and improved maternal and infant health.  
 
Environment 
 
The activities that this Development Policy Operation supports, with its focus on social 
protection, are not expected to have any significant environmental impacts.  The emphasis on 
improved targeting of safety nets as well as improving household welfare through cash transfers 
and consumer subsidies will have insignificant environmental effects. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Jehan Arulpragasam 
Title: Human Development Country Sector Coordinator 
Tel: 5776+3024 / 63-2-917-3024 
Fax: 63-2-637-5870 
Email: Jarulpragasam@worldbank.org 
Location: Manila, Philippines (IBRD) 
Page  6
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
