Dammemi of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR. iqoq->
lapt Pi& P-3621-ZM
RB1R AND   F)il
OF TH
PRESIDi OF THE
-NTEYAT.LT DEVE OPIN ASSOCIION
TO MHE
EICUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPIME CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 4.2 31LION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZA
FOR A
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August X, 1983
I                           _    _   ' beid by u.dph.k .myIn dbe peufu,nm _ e
dwi ofdlddIfesiu   W v  d   w  be dbIm"vdeWMBkaddd



Crency    ilet
Currency Unit        -    Zaire (Z)
Zaire 1.00           -    US$0.17
US$1.00                   Z5.85
Weights and Measures
1 meter (a)          -    3.28 feet
1 kilometer (kI)     -    0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (km2) -    0.386 square miles
1 sq meter (.2)           10.76 square feat
1 cubic meter (.3)   -    1.13 cabie yards
Acronyms and Abbreviations
Bbl            barrel
BD             barrels per day 
DME            DeatetOf Mines and Energy
ERTS           Landsat Unit in. Presldency
GOZ       ~~Government of Zaixre
NBC            National Energy Commission.
PetroZaire     Entreprise Petrollere du Zaire
TCF            trillion cubic  feer.
tpy            tonw per year
SNIL           Societe NationaIe dl'Electricite
Fiscal Year
January 1I  December 31



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
ZAI}E
PErRnLEUN SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower             :   Republic of Zaire
*  Beneficiary       :   Department of Hines and Energy (DUE)
AMount                    SDR 4.2 million (US$4.5 milli n equivalent)
Terms                     Standard
Project Description       Tbe project is intended to strengthen the capa-
city of DME to administer the hydrocarbon sector
and promote the development of additional petrol-
eum fields in the Coastal Basin and exploration
of other sedimentary basins.
The project includes: (a) a technical assistance
component to strengthen DME's technical capabi-
lity to administer the hydrocarbon sector and to
arrange for the timely development of new fields;
and (b) an exploration promotion component aimed
at establishing the basic information necessary
to promote new areas for exploration.
The project w uld support GOZ's efforts to
strengthen the administration of the hydrocarbon
sector and to increase production in the Coastal
Basin which would help generate additional export
earnings and tax revenues. The project would
also promote other prospectIve areas for
exploration by oil companies.
As in other technical assistance projects, the
main risk is that DME would not make adequate use
of the technical assistance program. This risk
is iutended to be addressed through the provision
of a Resident Petroleum Adviser to the Minister
who would coordinate the various components.
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents nay not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Dank authoriztion.



- (ii) -
Estimated Cost 1/                           Local       Foreign       Total
_  '   US$ 000
Technical Assistance 2/
Exploration Consultants                     280         1,300       1,580
Negotiating Assistance                       10           100        1l
Equipment and Supplies                       30           180         21u
Training                                     40           180         220
Audits                                       40            40          80
Coastal Basin Reserves Study                 40           400         440
Exploration Promotion 2/
Airmag Survey                                60           350         410
Geochemical and Gravity surveys             100         1,150       1,250
Base Cost                                600         3,700       4,300
Physical Contingencies                       60           370         430
Price Contingencies                          90           430         520
Total Project Cost                       750         4,500       5,250
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign        Total
-US$ Million
Government of Zaire                         .8           -             .8
IDA                                         -           4.5          4.5
Total                         .8         4.5           5.3
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year     1984       1985      1986       1987
Annual                               1.7        1.7       1.0       0.1
Cumulative                           1.7        3.4       4.4       4.5
Rate of Return:     N. A.
Appraisal Report:   None
Map:                 IBRD No. 17214
1/  The project would be exempted from taxes and duties.
2/  Including an advance of US$600,000 from the Project Preparation
Facility which would finance the foreign costs of the airmag survey,
the start-up contract for exploration consultants and initial
negotiating assistance.



REPORT AND  REnnENDATION OF THE PRESIDEFR
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRA
FOR A PETRLEM SECTOR TECMNCAL ASSISTDE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to the Republic of Zaire in the amount of SDR 4.2 million equivalent
(US$4.5 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Petroleum Sector Tech-
nical Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic mission visited Zaire in March 1982; its report has been
distributed in January 1983 (Report No. 4077-ZR). Its major findings, and those
of a follow up visit in February-March 1983, are summarized below.
Background
3.      Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and the
fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated at about
US$220 in 1980, ranks among the lowest in the continent.  Approximately one-
third of its population of about 28 million live in urban areas, and the popula-
tion density is 12 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding at a
rate of about 7 percent per annum, or more than two and a half times the rate of
population growth. Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence) nor-
mally accounts for 30 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for more
than three-quarters of the population. Mining and mineral-processing normally
account for about 18 percent of GDP; this sector has traditionally been the
largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds of the
country's export earnings. (The shares cited are 1979-81 averages).
4.      When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for the
change, both technically and institutionally. The first six to seven years
following independence were marked by violent political strife and a severe dis-
ruption of the economy.  But after the restoration of political order and sta-
bility in 1967, GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974.
Since then, however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties
which have brought about a continuous decline in per capita income.
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Gecamines Technical Assistance Project (P-3474-ZR of March 3, 1983).



-2-
Beginning of Current Difficulties
5.      Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the cur-
rent difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments which
took place in earlier years. Among these were: the progressive accentuation of
the country's dependence on the mining sector, accPmpaniLd by the relative
neglect of agricultural production; heavy external borrowing during 1973-74,
mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with Zaire's level of
development and for projects with long gestation periods and uncertain economic
benefits; and attempts to change drastically the ownership structure of the eco-
nomy through the zairianization and nationalization measures of 1973-74. Though
since rescinded, the zairianization and nationalization measures had particular-
ly adverse and lasting effects on tne economy: they seriously damaged private
sector confidence both at home and abroad, severely disrupted the transport and
marketing links between urban centers and the interior, and resulted in the
neglect of the country's productive capacity and infrastructure. The deteriora-
tion of Zaire's terms of trade since 1975, owing largely to the fall in the
international price of copper, was a major contributor to both the severity and
the duration of the crisis.
6.      Zaire's attempts to cope with the crisis were uneven and uncoordinated.
As a result, by 1978, commercialized GDP contracted to about 10 percent below
the pre-crisis (1972-74) level; the overall budgetary deficit attained a record
level equivalent to about 12 percent of co-ercialized GDP; and deficit financ-
ing, together with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel and
intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 50 percent.
Although the decline of GDP was arrested in 1979, the economy continued to face
serious difficulties thtat year. The budgetary deficit, though reduced, was
financed entirely by recourse to the domestic banking system. This, plus the
acceleration of credit to the rest of the economy, continued to exert pressure
on prices, which rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city during the
yeai.  The balance of payments also remained under strong pressure, as evidenced
by a further accumulation of external payment arrears - a trend which had
started in 1975, On December 31, 1979, arrears (including those on short-term
commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about US$1.8 billion. Although two
stabilization programs, supported by the IMF, were adopted and three debt re-
scheduling agreements under the Paris Club were concluded during the 1975-79
period, these could not be implemented and therefore brought limited relief.
Developments since 1979
7.      Despite the mixed performance, the year 1979 saw the beginning of more
systematic efforts by Zaire and its major donors to deal with the crisis.
First, in August 1979 Zaire adopted a new stabilization program designed to
contain the overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of inflation, and
thereby create the conditions for a resumption of economic growth. Second,
Zaire negotiated debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December
1979) and the syndicated private banks (April 1980). Third, Zaire started a
process of institutional reforms, including the gradual establishment of a more
systematic process of approval, programming and monitoring of public investments
(see next section).



-3-
8.      These efforts produced considerable improvements in 1980.  GDP expanded
by 2.4 percent in real terms, aided by a strong recovery in copper production;
exports rose in nominal terms as did imports; and the external current account
balance (after grants) showed a small surplus for the second straight year, in
sharp contrast to the average annual deficit of nearly US$600 million registered
during 1976-78. Government finances also improved. The budgetary deficit was
reduced by about two fifths in nominal terms and amounted to 1.9 percent of
GDP. The easing of the supply situation, together with the restraint in
government borrowing, contributed to lowering the annual rate of inflation by
more than half -  to about 44 percent -  despite the devaluation of the zaire by
about 30 percent (vis-a-vis the SDR) early in the year. At the same time, Zaire
observed all the performance criteria under the IXF-supported stabilization
program for 1980 and was able to purchase the full amount (SDR 118 million)
allowed under the stand-by arrangement. In addition, it largely complied' with
the debt rescheduling ;reements with the Paris Club and the syndicated private
banks by nearly doubling its external public debt service payments.
9.      Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in mid-1981 Zaire
adopted a taree-year program of economic and financial adjustment supported by
an -Extended Fund Facility" (EFF) from the IMF in an amount equivalent to SDR
912 million. The program had three basic objectives: (i) to achieve an average
annual growth rate of real GDP of 3 percent; (ii) to reduce the rate of domestic
inflation to 25 percent by 1983; and (iii) to contain the external current
account deficit in 1983 to 5 percent of nominal GDP. Zaire also concluded (in
July 1981) a new debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club under which the
creditors agreed to the rescheduling of some of the previously rescheduled
maturities as well as the new (not previously rescheduled) debt falling due in
1981 and 1982. However, economic performance during the year fell below expect-
ations because of external as well as internal factors. The weakening of the
copper and cobalt markets caused Zaire's merchandise exports to fall by about
US$460 million (or 24 percent) in nominal terms. Although the decline in
nominal imports was kcept to 10 percent, real imports were lower than at any year
during the crisis and, indeed, were 40-50 percent below the pre-crisis level.
As a result of these developments as well as a weakening of fiscal discipline,
the budgetary deficit expanded five-fold in nominal terms - to the equivalent
of 8 percent of commercialized GDP. Net government borrowing from the domestic
banking system exceeded the target under the medium-term program by a large
margin. Zaire could not comply with either the criteria under the Extended Fund
Facility or the July 1981 debt rescheduling agreement; it began accumulating
external debt arrears in the third quarter of 1981, and the EFF was formally
cancellad effective June 21, 1982.
10.     Zaire's economic difficulties were accentuated in 1982.  In MIarch 1982
Zaire was able to puchase SDR 107 million under the IMF Compensatory Financing
Facility, but this provided limited relief as copper and cobalt prices continued
to weaken. Merchandise exports in 1982 are estimated to have been at least
US$200 million (15 percent) less than in 1981 and US$650-700 million (33-36 per-
cent) less than in 1980. Furthermore, efforts to curtail expenditures - in the
face of a sharply reduced resource base - have proven inr.ufficient. As a re-
sult, the budgetary deficit reached about Z 3.3 billion, about twice the level



- 4 -
of 1981; the inflation rate, which fell to 18X in the first two quarters of the
year, accelerated to an annual rate of 60% during the last six months; and the
exchange rate came under strong pressure and, as a result, the spread between
the parallel market rate and the official exchange rate of the zaire widened
substantially, with the ratio between the two being in the order of five to one
compared to the two-to-one ratio which prevailed after the devaluation of July
1981. Zaire has also encountered serious difficulties in meeting its external
debt service obligations. External public debt arrears amounted to about US$800
million at the end of the year.
Government Measures
11.     During the years 1979-80, Zaire took a number of important steps under
the Mobutu Plan, which the Government viewed as a broad-based and multipronged
effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with assistance from the major
donors. These steps included the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF, at the Bank of Zaire.
Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general, proposed by the UNDP, to
the Ministry of Finance. In addition, as part of an effort to reform its cus-
toms operations, Zaire transformed the Customs Division of the Ministry of
Finance into a public organization known as the Office of Customs and Duties
(OFIDA). This new undertaking has received substantial technical and adminis-
trative support from Belgium. Also noteworthy was the creation of a Central Pay
Directorate which is functioning with the assistance of French experts. More-
over, the Government reaffirmed through various actions its commitment to ex-
panding the role of and its reliance on the private sector. Seven inefficient
*commodity offices' were dissolved and some agricultural producer prices were
raised. Under a scheme of "development agreements", an effort was initiated to
involve private industry in the rehabilitation of agriculture and related infra-
structure. A new investment code was promulgated, and a number of reforms were
undertaken in the management of state enterprises.
12.     In 1979, attention was directed to the preparation of a medium-term
Public Investmeat Program (PIP), and the World Bank was asked to assist the
Zairian authorities in this endeavor. In August 1979, the Government completed
a program for the period 1979-81, focusing largely on rehabilitation needs in
priority sectors such as agriculture, mining and transportation. The execution
of the PIP during 1979-80 was constrained primarily by the shortage of resources
and the execution of certain on-going projects which had not been included in
the PIP: only 40 percent of the PIP could be executed, compared to 60 percent
foreseen under the program.
13.     In mid-1981, in conjunction with the medium-term program supported by
the EFF, the Zairian authorities took a number of interrelated steps toward
stimulating supply, keeping the growth of demand within appropriate limits, and
improving foreign exchange management. In June 1981 the zaire was devalued by a
further 40 percent vis-A-vis the SDR; interest rates were adjusted upward; and
the existing price controls on most goods were removed in order to stimulate the
private sector. In addition to completing a revised PIP for 1981-83, Zaire
began preparing an Agricultural Action Plan in order to bring about improvements



-5-
in the following areas: (i) strengthening of institutions; (ii) policies for
pricing, marketing, credit, and foreign exchange allocation; (iii) implementa-
tion of on-going projects; (iv) investment programming for the sector; and (v)
research, extension and training. The Action Plan was discussed at a meeting of
the Consultative Group for Zaire held in June 1982. The Zairian authorities co-
operated with the IMF and the Bank in the preparation of a fiscal study which
comprised the budgetary process, (with emphasis on the -ontrol over expendi-
tures), tax reform and the tax regime of Gecamines (the state-owned cowpany pro-
ducing most of Zaire's copper and all of its cobalt). This study was completed
in May 1982, and since then, a number of refor4s recommended by the study have
been adopted by the Government. The most significant development in this res-
pect is the intention of the Government to .adopt a new tax regime for Gecamines.
14.     In 1982, Zaire made additional atteuxpts to improve economic management
and institutional performance.  The Ministry of Agriculture was significantly
reorganized as part of a broad program of institutional reforms for the sector.
The Governmant appointed new, more broadly-based Executive Boards for Gecamines
and Sozacom (the state-owned company marketing the bulk of Gecamines' output);
important changes were made in the top management of Gecamines; and a new
marketing arrangement between the two firms was approved. Furthermore, the
Government announced the decision to "privatize- the ownership and/or management
of 37 inefficient public enterprises, and it further relaxed the remaining price
coatrols. The Government proceeded at the same time to implement a policy of
'decentralization" whose apparent objective is to give the regions more auto-
nomy.
Prerequisites for Recovery
15.     The difficulties experienced by Zaire since 1975 have had a heavy eco-
nomic and social cost. Much of the country's productive capacity and infra-
structure has deteriorated, and real wages and saiaries have declined by more
than half. The main causes of this deterioration have been the depressed level
of world commodity prices, the weaknesses of institutions, the inadequacy of
administrative controls, and deficiencies of economic decision-making. These,
together with an inappropriate fiscal regime, have resulted in the growing de-
capitalization of the main mining firms, especially Gecamines. In the last two
years, with the cooperation of the international community, significant progress
has been made in defining the policies and actions necessary for recovery, and a
number of important decisions have already been announced by Zaire. The imple-
mentation of these policies, however, has not been sufficiently vigorous or con-
sistent, particularly in the areas of prices, the exchange rate, tax reform,
investment planning, and expenditure control. While the growth of expenditures
appears to have decelerated in the last few months, greater efforts are required
to compress them further and to improve their allocation.
16.     Although Zaire' exports are expected to improve in the next three years,
largely because of the anticipated recovery of copper prices, Zaire's resource
constraints will remain severe. This is partly due to the external public debt
burden; the contractual debt service due in the next three years is equivalent
to about 45 percent of projected exports of goods and nonfactor services -- a



- 6 -
ratio whnich would seem incompatible with even a modest economic recovery. More-
over, as a result of the sharp drop in commitments over the last few years, the
undisbursed project pipeline - the source of future disbursements -- has been
reduced to US$6:0 million, compared to US$1.2 billion in 1975. The medium-term
outlook for bilateral and multilateral assistance is uncertain.
17.     The Zairian authorities are aware that In these circumstances they will
need to take stronger actions to: (i) bring the foceign exchange rate to a more
appropriate level, (ii) generalize the application of the price liberalization
measures, (iii) reduce the budgetary deficit by implementing the recommendations
of the recently completed IMF/Bank fiscal study, (iv) create the conditions for
improving the prospects of financing Gecamines' rehabilitation program, (v) im-
plement the Ag-icultural Action Plar., bearing in mind that a number of policies
remain to be formulated; and (vi) revitalize the public investment programming
and monitoriag process. The most urgent priority is to reach a new agreement
with the IMF, as this will relieve the resource pressure and open the way for a
new external debt rescheduling agreement, which is urgently needed. DMF mis-
sions visited Zaire in December 1982 and May 1983 in order to assess recent eco-
nomic developments and prospects and to carry out preliminary discussions on an
adjustment program that could be supported by the use of Fund resources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE 1/
18.     From 1969 to date, the Association has approved 32 credits totalling
about US$484 million for agriculture, transport, development finance company
operations, water supply, power and education projects. The Bank Group has also
extended grants totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two
planning assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100
million for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the
European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided
for special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. A
Technical Assistance Credit was recently approved to assist Gecamines with its
efforts to restructure its organization, improve its manpower and prepare a
long-term rehabilita' on and expansion program. The IFC, which has a US$760,000
equity participation in the Societe Financiere de Developpement Economique
(SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978 for an offshore oil production
project and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies related to the development of
an aluminium complex at Banana.   Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC irvestments as of March 31, 1983 and notes on the
status of ongoing projects.
19.     A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire nas been institution
building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in 1970 with
assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, ONATRA, Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), have received
technical and financial assistance from the Association, which also helped
/ This section is substantially the same as Part II of Report No. P-3474-ZR.



-7-
establish the National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE). In the case of
Gecamines, the Bank loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing and now supported
by a technical assistance credit, intended to define ways and means to
strengthen the management, financial position and planning of the company.
20.     In general, project implementation has been difficult due to the coun-
try's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in recent years,
because of the economic crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the
required budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints.  Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the
deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have resulted in
severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate
staff has also been difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook with Zairian
officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which, for the first time,
provided an integrated view of implementation problems.  This has resulted in an
acceleration and improvement in the utilization of Bank Group assistance, parti-
cularly in the agricultural sector.
21.     Ten credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:  Credits 152, 292,
and 536-ZR (First, Second and Third Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River
Transport Project); Credit .272-CK (Education Project); Credit 398-ZR (Livestock
Project); Credits 190, 271, and 463-ZR (First, Second and Third SOFIDE Pro-
jects); Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines). Completion
reports have been issued for all projects except Water Supply and Gecamines, and
Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE and the first
Highway Projects. An Audit Report covering the Second and Third Highway Pro-
jects, the River Transport Project and the Rail/River Project is being discussed
with the Government. The conclusion of the audit and completion reports was
that the Bank Group's impact on institution building had beer mixed. SOFIDE was
evolving as an effective and competent institution, and the Office des Routes,
the highway agency, had been able to establish an effective administrative set-
up. On the other hand, ONATRA's performance had not improved as a result of the
first River Transport Project but did improve under a follow-up project; imple-
mentation by RVF and RVM had disappointing results, but financial results of
operations had improved. All entities had encountered operating difficulties
beyond their control as the economy deteriorated, financial resources grew
scarcer and the problems besetting the investment environment were exacerbated
by Government's zairianization/radicalization measures. Bank Group support to
SOFIDE and the OR is continuing under the Fourth and Fifth SOFIDE projects
(Crs. 710 and 998-ZR) and Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects (Cr. 916-ZR and Cr.
1290-ZR). RVF and RVM received assistance through a second River Transport Pro-
ject (Cr. 571-ZR); and ONATRA will benefit from the ongoing Modernization
Project (Cr. 1180-ZR).
22.     The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the Eastern Africa
Region. For fiscal years 1980-82, disbursements totalled US$86 million compared
with new commitments of US$106 million. The disparity between disbursements and
commitments is a result of a significant increase in commitments in FY82. In
this same period, the average annual disbursement rate was 24 percent; this rate
is about the same as the rate for other countries of the region. While
disbursement performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have



arisen in several projects. In the case of early credits for transport,
education and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a
strong project entity caused implementation delays. Economic conditions
were also a factor in slowing project programs in instances where govern-
ment counterpart funds were not available (Third Highway, Credit 660-ZR;
Second Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the investment environment
experienced slow recovery from the aftermath of abrupt nationalization
(Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR). Future project implementation should be
less affected by che above influences given the strengthening of institu-
tions under subsequent projects and efforts by the Government to improve
budgetary support of IDA-f inanced projects. At the end of 1981, the Bank
Group's share of Zaire's total debt disbursed and outstanding was less than
10 percent.
23.     In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehiabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and imple-
mentation of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry were also
emphasized through assistance to SOFIDE. An initial effort in support of
the energy sector was undertaken through the Shaba Power System Rehabilita-
tion Project (Cr. 1224-ZR). Our lending will continue to support the
transport sector, (in particular the Voie Nationale); to assist the deve-
lopment of the agriculture sector within the framework of the new Agricul-
tural Action Plan (see para. 13 above) and to promote the development of
the industrial and mining sectors. In addition, further support will be
considered for the energy sector.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. The Energy Sector
Energy Base, Supply and Demand
24.      Zaire is well-endowed with diverse energy resources.  Wood is the
single most important energy sources and supplies the cooking, heating and
lighting needs of the vast majority of the population, reflecting the fact
that most of the population lives at subsistence levels. Forests cover
over 80 percent of the country, but their indiscriminate exploitation to
meet annual demand of about 11 million tons has already resulted in defor-
estation of the densely populated areas in the Bas-Zaire region, particu-
larly around Kinshasa and other large cities.
25.      The potential for hydropower is substantial.  Existing installed
capacity is about 2,500 MW accounting for about 95 percent of power gener-
ating capacity in Zaire, the rest being diesel. The greatest concentra-
tions of hydropower capacity are in western Zaire (Inga) serving the
Kinshasa region, and in Shaba suppl-ing mainly the copper industry.  In
general, capacity utilization of the plants in Zaire has been low due to
overestimated consumption increases. In 1982, the Government commissioned
a 1,700 km direct current transmission line linking Shaba province to the



Inga II hydrostation. It was intended that this line would supply not only
the mining industry, but other power intensive industries which the
Government hoped to attract.  To date, operation of the line has been brief
and intermittent owing to technical problems and the departure of foreign
-roerts. Electricity consumption in Zaire is low at about 4,000 GWh p.a.
or about 145 kWh per capita.
26.      Hydrocarbon resot-'ces include oil, oil shale and gas.  Petroleum
exploration in Zaire began in 1956 in the coastal basin and production
began in 1975. Proven recoverable reserves amount to about 135 million
barrels of oil. Zaire has been producing, mostly from off-shore fields,
about 23,000 barrels per day or 1.2 millioa tons of oil per year.  All the
production is exported while the country imports petroleum products and
lighter crudes for processing in the local refinery. Petroleum now repre-
sents about 18 percent of the country's export earnings. Oil shales with a
total crude oil content of about 140-280 million barrels, bitumen sands
with an oil content of about 300-400 million barrels, and methane (about 2
TCF) dissolved in Lake Kivu have been identified, but to date no commercial
proposals have emerged fcr the use of these resources.
27.      Due to Zaire's economic and financial crisis, consumption of
petroleum products has been contracting from 793,000 tons in 1975 to about
657,000 tons in 1982 or by about 2.3 percent per year with reductions
affecting all product groups except diesel.  Still, because of rising
prices, petroleum imports amounting to about US$220 million in 1982 (about
20 percent of total merchandise imports) have imposed a heavy burden oi
Zaire's balance of payments. While in terms of volume Zaire is a net
exporter of about 4.5 million barrels per year, in terms of value there is
a slight export surplus of about US$30 million due to the higher value
added of refined product imports. Zaire's per capita consumption is now
about 22 kg or oil equivalent p.a., one of the lowest in the world.
28.       Coal reserves in Shaba and aear Lake Tanganyika are estimated at
720 million tons of low quality no'.-coking coal. About 85,000 tons are
mined per year for use by GECAMIEES, the railroad and the local cement
industry. GECAMINES imports about 130,000 tons annually of high grade coal
and coke for copper smelting.
29.       The potential for using solar energy is large and several pos-
sible applications are under study, including those for water heating, crop
drying and water pumping. The potential for geothermal energy is still
undetermined and no specific investigations have yet been undertaken in the
northeast where active volcanoes and numerous hot springs are located.
30.       The main consumer of commercial energy in Zaire is the mining
industry with 37.4 percent of commercial energy consumption, followed by
transport (35.9 percent) and industry (15.0 percent), while the remainder
(11.7 percent) is distributed among agriculture, commerce and private
households. About 85 percent of non-commercial energy is consumed by
private households for cooking and lighting.
31.       The supply-demand balance below shows that in volume terms Zaire
is a net energy exporter, because domestic oil consumption equals only half
of oil production.



- 10 -
ZAIR: Estimated Energy Production and Consumption 1982 (Preliminary)
Consumption               Production
Energy Source         metric tons of            retric tons of
oil equivalent    Z      oil equivalent    x
Hydropower                      336,133         7         343,525         6
Petroleum                       656,670        13       1,298,500        24
Coal and Coke                   134,960         3          52,460         1
Sub-Total
Commercial Energy         1,127,763        23       1,694,485        31
Wood                          3,150,000        65       3,150,000        58
Biomass                         600,000        12         600,000        11
Sub-Total
Non-Commercial Energy    3,750,000         77       3,750,000        69
Total                     4,877,763       100       5,444,485       100
Source: IBRD
Energy Pricing
32.       Overall, energy prices in Zaire reflect costs of production or
import prices, although there are significant variations for some
products. Electricity tariffs are somewhat low and will be reviewed in the
context of a study financed under the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1224-ZR).
33.       Pr'ces for petroleum products in Zaire are controlled by the
Government and, on the average, are relatively high.
ZAIRE: Prices for Selected Petroleum Products January 1983
Retail Zaire    Average landed Matadi    Retail Zaire
Product               USSlton a/       (c.i.f) - US$Iton      in % of Matadi
Premium Gasoline          1581                 292                  541.4
Regular Gasoline          1581                  265                 596.6
Kerosene                   405                 310                  130.6
Diesel                     445                 276                  161.2
Heavy fuel oil             406                 n.a.                 n.a.
Source:  Platts Oilgram Price Report (January 31, 1983), PetroZaire.
a/   Calculated at the official exchange rate (1:5.85).  The comparison
with international price. is distorted by the over-valuation of
the zaire.



- 11 -
34.       Gasoline is sold at a retail price above the c.i.f. price plus
transport costs. A large disparity is maintained between the price of
gasoline and prices for kerosene and diesel oil, reflecting a Government
policy of cross-subsidization. This is based on the assumption that diesel
oil is used for more productive purposes and is, therefore, more important
in the strategy for economic development. The price differentiation is
larger in Zaire than in other countries: while international prices of
gasoline are about 10 percent higher than for diesel, in Zaire gasoline is
about four times more expensive thAn diesel. A realignment of domestic
petroleum prices, including relative prices, is an important element in the
dialogue between the Bank and GOZ. A pricing study, to be conducted within
the framework of the Fifth Highway Project, is expected to be completed in
early 1984.
Petroleum Refining, Distribution and Marketing
35.      Societe Zalro-Italienne de Raffinage (SOZIR), jointly owned by GOZ
(50 percent) and AGIP of Italy (50 percent), began operating the rather
small 750,000 tpy refinery in Moanda in 1967. The refinery is neither
adapted to process Zairian crude, nor to produce the range of products re-
quired in Zaire. Refined Zairian crude would yield 60 percent fuel oil,
compared with Arabian light which yields 40 percent fuel oil. However,
domestic demand consists of 91.7 percent light products and only 8.3 per-
cent fuel oil. The envisaged conversion of additional industries from fuel
oil to electricity will further increase the production/demand imbalance.
36.      The refinery's throughput has declined continually, from 732,000
tpy in 1973 to 89,000 tpy in 1982, and operations have been stopped since
mid-1982 1V. At present, it costs less for Zaire to import petroleum pro-
ducts rather than to process imported crude. At prices prevailing in early
1983, it is estimated that the cost of importing and processing crude at
the SOZIR refinery would lead to an average cost of about US$280 per ton of
refined products; importing the required products would cost between
US$230-240. A Bank mission visited Zaire in March 1983 to review refinery
operations. Preliminary conclusions indicate that improvements in refinery
efficiency measures and the addition of secondary conversion facilities to
reduce the production/demand imbalance would reduce costs and the need to
import high priced crude for domestic refinery; however, it is not yet
clear whether even these measures would be adequate to ensure economic
operation of the refinery.
37.       Oil products are distributed by Petrofina, Mobil, Shell and
Texaco 2/. The government-owned Entreprise Petroliere du Zaire, (Petro-
Zaire), (para. 46), which began as an internal transport agent, has taken a
small share in the distribution of petroleum products (about 5 percent) and
became the sole importer of petroleum in May 1981. Product distribution is
1/ SOZIR is considering resuming operations during the course of 1983.
2/ The local assets of the companies, nationalized in 1974, were returned
in 1976 to their original owners, but GO0  has retained an interest in
these companies.



- 12 -
closely controlled by GOZ through foreign exchar-ge allocation and import
licences. Each year a supply program- is prepared by the Department of
Mines and Energy (DME), in consultation with all the interested parties to
ensure the adequate supply of all sectors and regions in Zaire. There have
been, however, serious weaknesses with the executior. of the supply pro-
gram. While the Kinshasa area and priority sectors (including GECAMINES,
the Armed Forces, Air Zaire) are relatively well supplied, there are severe
shortages in the interior and in Eastern Zaire, compounded by transport
difficulties. These questions are being reviewed in the context of the
Fifth Highway Project.
Development and Organization of the Energy Sector
38.       The Department of Mines and Energy (DME) has overall respon-
sibility for the formulation and implementation of energy policy, energy
conservation and supervision of the national electricity company, SNEL.
With respect to the hydrocarbon subsector, DME is responsible for regulat-
ing:  (i) all mineral operations including hydrocarbon exploration and pro-
duction; and (ii) crude imports, refining, internal and export marketing
and distribution and energy conservation. The DME's Energy Directorate has
a total of 359 staff, including 171 professionals, most of whom are working
on power related matters since there is little expertise in petroleum
matters (para. 45).
39.       The Department of Economy and Industry has authority over pric-
ing, while the Department of Portfolio administers the Government's hold-
ings in the various energy companies. Energy planning in Zaire is still
largely non-existent and there is no energy sector investment program.
The Government has identified priorities including: (i) the further deve-
lopment of hydropower, particularly in Eastern Zaire and the interconnec-
tion of regional grids, and (ii) increasing petroleum output in the Coastal
Basin. A National Energy Commission (NEC) was established under DME in
1980 to define a national energy policy and to coordinate the energy re-
lated activities of the various ministries and agencies, but the practical
impact of NEC has b-en disappointing. An Energy Advisor to the NEC will be
financed under the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224-ZR)
to assist the Government in devising sound energy policies. In addition,
an introductory Energy Sector Review was carried out by the Association in
i981 and an Energy Assessment is tentatively scheduled for FY84.
B. Petroleum Exploration and Production
Petroleum Geology, Exploration and Production
40.       Zaire's three sedimentary areas total about  870,000 km2.  They
are, from west to east: (a) the Coastal Basin (approximately 6,000 km2),
where all of Zaire's production originates; (b) the Congo Central Basin or
Cuvette, covering about 810,000 km2, which has been barely explored until
now; and (c) the Tanganyika Graben, 1,400 km long and 2C-60 km wide, where
hydrocarbon shows have been documented in the northern part.  A summary of
Zaire's petroleum geology is given in Annex VII.



- 13 -
41.       Coastal Basin.  The exploration effort in the Coastal Basin
started in 1956 with the granting of the offshore concession to the Gulf
Oil Group, 1/ and of the onshore concession to the Petrofina Group.21   Oil
was discovered in 1970-71.  Production began in lave 1975 in the offshore
concession, and in 1978 in the onshore concession, but in the latter at a
very low rate. The Gulf Oil Group produces about 22,000 BD and the
Petrofina Group about 1,000 BD. Cumulative production through December 31,
1982 has been about 54 million barrels.  Both grcups are currently drilling
additional exploratory wells and are also considering the development of
recent discoveries which could increase Zaire's daily output by an
additional 12,000 Bbl. to about 35,000 Bbl.
42.       The table below gives Zaire's petroleum production and exports
since 1975 and shows that, with the exception of a small quantity in 1981,
all of Zaire's production has been exported. The table also indicates that
oil production peaked rapidly in 1976 and has stabilized at about 80
percent of the 1976 level. For hydrocarbon production to sustain its
substantial contribution to Zaire's economy, further exploration is needed
and additional wells will have to be developed over the next few years.
ZAIRE: Production and Exports of Petroleum 1975-82
Production
Year           (000 barrels)        Export Volume  Export Value   Unit Value
Yearly      Cumulative  (000 barrels)  (million US$)  USS/barrel
1975         25.5          25.5          25.5          n.a.          n.a.
1976      9,075.1       9,100.6       9,075.1          n.a.          n.a.
1977      8,254.5      17,355.1       8,254.5          n.a.          n.a.
1978      6,604.1      23,959.2       6,604.1          n.a.          n.a.
1979      7,535.1      31,494.3       7,535.1         152.7         20.27
1980      6,624.6      38,118.9       6,624.6         228.2         34.45
1981      7,343.9      45,462.8       7,270.0         259.9         35.75
1982 a/   8,100.0      53,562.8       8,100.0         249.6         30.81
Source: Zaire-Gulf, IMF, PetroZaire
a/ Preliminary
1/  The 'Gulf Oil Group" consists of subsidiaries of Gulf Oil Corporation
(50Z); Teikoku Oil of Japan (32.28 percent); and Cometra Oil Company of
Belgium (17.72 percent) in which GOZ has 15 percent equity.
2/  The  Petrofina Group  consists of subsidiaries of Petrofina (30 per-
cent); Shell Oil Co. (25 percent) and AMOCO (45 percent) in which GOZ
has a 15 percent equity.



- 14 -
43.       Other Basins.  Little exploration has taken place to date in the
other basins. Two deep stratigraphic holes were drilled in 1982 by Esso
Zaire in the Cuvette ar.d resulted dry, as did two holes drilled in the
early 50's.  However, the drilling of only four wells in a basin about the
size of Texas and Oklahoma cannot provide adequate information on the
potential of this area.
44.       Petroleum Exploration in the Tanganyika Graben has started only
recently with Bank sponsored airmag surveys over Burundi through an advance
from the Project Preparation Facility (P 208-BU) and Zambia (Loan 2152-
ZA).I/ Another airmag survey also supported by the Bank Group covering the
remaining Tanganyika Graben and including Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya and
Zaire, is currently being planned for mid-1983 (paras. 59-60). The results
of this survey would be consol idated with those of the Burundi and Zambia
surveys run in 1982, in order tv improve the regional geologic knowledge
and possibly attract international companies for further exploration. The
Zairian portion of the survey would be financed under the proposed project.
Administrative Framework
45.       The responsibility for overseeing hydrocarbon exploration and
production is vested in DME. However, its staff does not have the exper-
tise in geophysics, geology and petroleum engineering necessary to mraitor
the activities of the companies and to provide GOZ with a sound technical
basis for its petroleum policies. A unit est--blished in the Presidency
(ERTS) handles all matters related to air photography and Landsat imagery
uses.
46.      The Entreprise Petroliare du Zaire (PetroZaire), is a state-owned
company entrusted with petroleum research activites, monopoly control of
imports of petroleum products and some product distribution (para. 37). It
does not hold acreage directly nor does it participate in on-Zoing explora-
tion/production operations, and does not have policy-making responsibility.
Its assets totalled about US$172 million in 1981, and its staff currently
numbers about 150, of which about 60 are professionals. A petroleum explo-
ration group (about six professionals) was recently formed within Petro-
Zaire and has undertaken surface exploration in the Cuvette basin and the
Zairian part of the Tanganyika Graben. This group, however, does not have
the expertise and experience to carry out the systematic interpretation of
the geological and geophysical data submitted by the oilcompanies. As a
result, GOZ administration of the sector is weak as there is no counterpart
for the companies and little knowledge, let alone control, over the com-
paaies' operations, particularly in decisions concerning new exploration
and development. The proposed project would help establish the needed
expertise through the creation of a Petroleum Unit within DHE which would
serve to strengthen both the DME and PetroZaire.
1/ An ongoing scientific seismic survey begun by Duke University has
indicated some folding and faulting of the sedimentary section in the
lake but only a reconnaissance survey of Lake Tanganyika has been
implemented so far.



- 15 -
Legal Framework
47.       In the absence of specific petroleum legislation, the oil indus-
try in Zaire is regulated by the National Mining Law, Ordinance Decree 67
of May 11, 1967. Mineral rights for hydrocarbons are secured by 'conveu-
tions" which grant exclusive exploration rights for hydrocarbons and the
right to obtain a production concession. The law is flexible and does not
specify the detailed terms and conditions upon which -conventions- and con-
cessions are to be issued. According to the current terms of the contract
with the Gulf Oil Group (para. 41), GOZ receives a total of about 76 per-
cent of net income from crude oil sales after deduction of all operating
expenses, including dry hole expenses, intangible drilling expenses and
depreciation. Terms are renegoti-ted every five years, and the present
terms expire December 31, 1986. The last round of negotiations, which
lasted almost a year, was carried out by the ifinister of Agriculture in his
capacity as President of the Energy Commission. In the future, specific
expertise in the technical/financial aspects of petroleum contracts nego-
tiations will need to be acquired by GOZ.
48.       Fairly extensive exploration of the Zaire Coastal Basin has been
carried out to-date.  Any nw development of the area is likely to be of
smallV  r  umarginal- fields in terms of the industry's definition of
expected output. However, the quantity is estimated i.o be large enough to
subtantially increase Zaire's present output, thereby making an important
contribution to export earnings. Gulf and Petrofina are considering the
development of recent discoveries, and negotiations for their development
are expected to take place in the near future; the terms and conditions of
participation in development of the smaUl or marginal fields would be a
critical issue. The proposed project would therefore provide the necessary
assistance to GOZ in further negotiations with companies.
Government Strategy in the Sector and Role of Bank Group
49.       The results to date of exploration in the Coastal Basin indicate
that production can be increased significantly over the medium term pro-
vided required investments are made in newly discovered fields. While in
some countries oil companies would be quite willing to develop new fields,
in Zaire, several obstacles need to be overcome in order to convince oper-
ating companies to make substantial additional investments. One difficulty
lies in the inexistence of an adequate institutional set-up and insuffi-
cient expertise. Another issue is the lack of confidence regarding GOZ po-
licies vis-a-vis the private sector, particularly following the nationali-
zation/denationalization of petroleum products marketing subsidiaries
(para. 37). A further difficulty results from the current contract condi-
tions which do not make the development of smaller or marginal fields
sufficiently profitable to attract risk capital. However, as noted in
para. 47 above, there is sufficient flexibility in the existing legislation
to allow a satisfactory solution to the latter problem.



- _6 -
50.      The primary Government objective is to at least maintain and
possibly increase Zaire's crude production and thus Government revenues and
export earnings. To achieve this objective, the Government is taking
measures to improve private sector confidence, and thereby increase
investments in new fields. It sees the creation of a strong sectoral
institution, able to monitor companies' activities and shape Government
policies as the basis of this effort. A second strategic goal of the
Government is to promote additional acreage particularly in the Cuvette and
the Tanganyika Graben for exploration by private oii' companies.
51.      The Government objectives are realistic and congruent with the
sector's potential, and deserve Bank Group support.  The first Bank Group
operation in the sector was an enhanced oil recovery water injection scheme
offshore of US$33 million, for which IFC granted two loans totalling US$4.1
million in 1978. The project was implemented successfully.
52.      In support of the Government's objectives, the proposed technical
assistance project would help strengthen the Government capability in the
petroleum sector. This assistance would come at a critical mement when
large investments for developing oil production are considered by the
private oil companies. The presence of the Bank Group would also help
improve the investment climate in the sector and accelerate development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       The proposed project was identified in August, 1982 and appraised
in February, 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington from June 9 to 10,
1983. The Zairian delegation was led by Mr. Mbonga Magalu Engwanda, Secre-
tary General of Energy, DME.  A Credit and Project Summary is given at the
beginuing of this Report and a supplementary project data sheet is attached
as Annex III. No staff appraisal report has been prepared for this
project.
Project Objectives
54.       The project would aim at:  (i) prviding DME with the capability
to analyze and monitor oil company operations, define Zaire's strategy and
policies for the sector, and generate adequate financial and technical
backup data for negotiations with the Companies, tlhrough the establishment
of new structures within DME, in particular the creation of a Petroleum
Unit; and (ii) promoting the development of new fields in the Coastal basin
and the exploration of prospective areas in other basins.
Project Description
55.       The project would include the following components:



- 17 -
A. Technical Assistance
(a) Experts from a petroleum counsulting firm wnuld assist
the Petroleum Unit in DME in: (i) monitoring the activ-
ities and reviewing all data submitted by the operating
companies; (ii) preparing development/production stra-
tegy reports for GOZ as the basis for negotiating with
oil companies; (iii) preparing a promotion report on the
Tanganyika Graben and the Cuvette to be offered for sale
to interested companies; and (iv) supervising the Coast-
al Basin reserve's study as well as the geophysical and
geochemical work included in the project. The experts
vould also provide on-the-job training to the staff of
the Unit. An estimated 80 man/months of experts services
would be provided.
(b) A Resident Adviser would report directly to the Minister
of Energy and Mining on matters concerning strategy,
policies, planning of operations in the sector as well as
on the technical and economic aspects of negotiations
with the companies on the basis of the findings of the
Petroleum Unit. The Adviser would liaise with and work
closely with the Chief of the Petroleum Unit on technical
matters; he would also advise on the work program of the
Unit. The Adviser would be recruited to work full time
for about 2 years; his services could thereafter be
extended for short term assignments if and as required.
About 30 man/months have been estimated for the services
of the Adviser.
(c) A specialist in negotiation of exploration/production
contracts would be recruited to assist the Minister
during the negotiations of contract proposals for new
development projects to be presented by the oil com-
panies. About 6 man/months of services would be requir-
ed.
(d) Experts from a petroleum engineering firm would be pro-
vided for about 20 man/months to carry out an evaluation
of the reserves of the Coastal basin as part of an effort
to design a strategy for optimizing their development.
(e) Equipment and materials, including vehicles, laboratory
equipment and professional books for the Petroleum Unit.
(f) Training of about 10 DME staff in petroleum exploration,
production and drilling techniques, including on-the-job
training, attendance at intensive short seminars, profes-
sional meetings, and group training in the field.



- 18 -
(g) Audit of the project accounts by an independent auditor
from 1983 to 1986.
B. Petroleum Exploration Promotion
(a) airmag survey to be flown jointly with Uganda, Kenya and
Tanzania over prospective areas in the Tanganyika Graben
and Lake Victoria. The Zairian portion of the airmag
survey is estimated at about 16,000 line/km out of a
total of about 50,0U0 line/km;
(b) geochemical analysis of ditch samples and cores recovered
from the two dry holes drilled by Esso in the Cuvette and
of samples from the bituminous shale formation of
Kisangani, from coal formations in Kalemie and Luena and
from rocks in the Lake MLobutu region. This study would
investigate tthe presence of petroleum source rocks in the
Cuvette and the Graben;
;c) five-month gravity survey with helicopter support over
parts of the Cuvette and particularly the Mobutu Lake and
kuzizi plain area. The exact areas of the gravity survey
would be selected on the basis of the recommendations of
the exploration consultants.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       The total  cost of the project, net of duties and taxes, (from
which the project would be exempt) is estimated at about US$5.3 million
equivalent. The cost of one man-month of consulting services has been
estimated at US$16,500 on the average including travel, subsistence and
overhead. This amount is reasonable, taking into account the high level of
expertise required and salaries prevailing in the petroleum industry. The
estimated costs of the airmag survey (US$27/line-km) and of the gravity
survey are based on the actual cost of recent surveys in other African
countries. The base cost estimate is expressed in early-1983 prices. The
estimated total cost of the project includes physical contingencies of 10
percent. Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of project-
ed inflation rates of 8.0 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984, 7.0 per-
cent for 1985 and 6.0 percent p.a. thereafter. Domestic inflation has been
taken into account by calculating costs in US dollars and allowing the pro-
gressive devaluation of the zaire to compensate for local price increases.
57.       The proposed IDA credit would finance the foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$4.5 million equivalent (85.7 percent) of total project cost.
The local cost component (USS800,000 equivalent) would be financed by GOZ.
Status of Project Preparation
58.       The project was prepared by DME in cooperation with the Assoc-
ciation.  Terms of reference for the various consultants are to be prepared



- 19 -
by DME in consultation with the Association and would be acceptable to the
Association.
59.       The airmag survey over the Tanganyika Graben was prepared in co-
operation with Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania, because a joint effort would
decrease the cost by spreading the mobilization/demobilization expenditures
among the various participating governments and provide an opportunity for
analysis and interpretation of the airmag results on a regional basis. A
working group including representatives of each government is in charge of
project preparation. A coordinating meeting took place on March 23, 1983
in Kinshasa to agree on specifications for the airmag. The airmag con-
tractor and the quality control and supervision firm were selected in a
second coordinating meeting which took place in May 1983.
60.       In order to help financz the cost of the joint airmag, each of
the four Governments has applied for or obtained Bank Group Assistance.l/
To help finance the Zairian portion of the cost of the airmag and technical
assistance services that would be incurred before the proposed credit
becomes effective, GOZ has requested an advance from the Project Prepara-
tion Facility of US$600,000 equivalent: US$350,000 would be utilized for
the survey and supervision/interpretation, and US$250,000 would finance the
start-up of the Petroleum Unit and some negotiating assistance.
Project Implementation
61.       The project would be implemented by DME which would establish a
Petroleum Unit within its Energy Directorate, under the Secretary General
for Energy of the Ministry. When fully.operational, the U-nit would com-
prise about 7 to 8 local professional staff, including geologists and geo-
physicists, petroleum engineers, a petroleum economist, a contract
specialist, as well as an accountant and administrative and secretarial
staff. In addition, a geologist, a geophysicist, a petroleum engineer, a
petroleum economist, a photogeologist and the specialist in negociations
would be expatriate experts provided under the Project (paras. 62 and 63).
Local technical specialists could, as required, be drawn from PetroZaire
staff and the ERTS Unit of the Presidency on a permanent or temporary
basis. In its work, the Petroleum Unit wvould be assisted by experts from a
petroleum consulting firm (para. 55) who would be employed by DME on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 and Schedule 4
of the draft Development Credit Agreement); such assistance would not
necessarily be on a full time basis, but would depend on the nature and
level of expertise of local staff and on the work program of the Unit.
Day-to-day coordination of the work of the Unit would be the responsibility
of the Chief of the Unit who would be appointed by the Minister of Energy.
I/ Uganda and Tanzania have applied for funds under two ongoing Tech-
nical Assistance Credits (Credits 1077-UG and Credit 1060-TA) and
Kenya intends to use funds under the ongoing Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project (Loan 2065-KE).



- 20 -
The Unit would provide technical support to the specialist in negotia-
tions.  The Unit would cooperate with PetroZaire particularly in the carry-
ing out of the various surveys; it would also cooperate with the ERTS Unit
of the Presidency (see para. 45) for Landsat interpretation and use.
62.       The Chief of the Petroleum Unit would be a Zairian whose qualifi-
cations and experience would be satisfactory to the Association (Section
3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The establishment of the
Unit in a manner acceptable to the Association and the appointment of the
Chief of the Unit and of at least one geologist, one geophysicist and one
petroleum engineer (all local staff) would be conditions of Credit Effec-
tiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement Section 5.01 (a) and (b)).
The work program and staffing of the Unit would be reviewed each year
jointly by DME and the Association (Section 3.03 (b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The consultants would be required to submit their
work program and monthly activity reports to DME.
63.       The Resident Adviser to the Minister, and the other expatriate
experts listed in para. 61 above, shall have qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association and
would be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants, (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Resident Adviser would be an explorationist with international exper-
ience in oil production, oil related economic and contractual matters, as
well as relations with governments; the specialist in negotiations would
have experience related to exploration/production contracts.
64.       DME is expected to sell some of the data collected during the
project, in particular the results of the airmag survey, to interested oil
companies. The proceeds of any such sales would be deposited in a special
account at the Bank of Zaire. The funds in the account would be used to
finance surveys, studies, reports and other developmental activities in the
petroleum sector; prior to authorizing disbursements from the account the
Association would be consulted (Section 4.02 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
65.       The project would be completed by December 31, 1986; an imple-
mentation schedule appears as Annex IV.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       The contract for the airmag survey has been awarded, and the con-
tract for the gravity survey will be awarded following international com-
petitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Association guidelines. The
total cost of the Zairian portion of the regional airmag is estimated at
US$350,000, including quality control and contingencies. Experts and con-
sultants would be selected in accordance with 'Bank Group Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants". Contracts for equipment and materials will be



- 21 -
procured by inviting quotations from at least three reliable independent
suppliers. Contracts for professional manuals will be negotiated directly
with the suppliers. Credit funds would be disbursed as follows: 100 per-
cent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures for consultants' and
experts' services (US$1.05 million), surveys (US$1.15 million), audits
(US$40,000) and equipment and materials (US$180,000 million); and 100 per-
cent of total expenditures for training (US$180,000). US$600,000 would be
used to refund the advance from the Project Preparation Facility. Unallo-
cated funds total USS1.3 million. The disbursement schedule given in Annex
V is based on experience with similar energy projects in Sub-Saharan
Africa.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
67.       DME would keep separate project accounts.  The Project accounts
would be audited by external auditors acceptable to the Association. The
audited reports would be submitted by DME to the Association within five
months of the closing of the fiscal year, beginning with 1983 (Section 4.01
(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). DME would submit quarterly
and annual reports on the implementation of the project in a format accept-
able to the Association. After completion of the Project, DME would
prepare a report on the execution of the Project (Section 3.07(c) and (e)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
68.       The main benefit of the technical assistance component of the
Project would be to strengthen and supplement existing institutions and to
improve the investment climate in the petroleum sector as a means to in-
crease oil production in the Coastal Basin. The establishment of a compe-
tent Petroleum Unit within DME to administer the sector, advise GOZ on
petroleum policies and act as a counterpart for oil companies, would be
instrumental in firming up relations with companies. The assistance in
negotiating would help GOZ secure fair deals in forthcoming talks concern-
ing production terms for recent discoveries. The main benefit of the
exploration/promotion component would be to provide information ua sedi-
mentary basins in the Tanganyika graben; based on these results, to attract
oil companies to invest risk capital for exploration; and, in the event of
successful exploration, to initiate hydrocarbon production in new areas.
Efforts by the operating companies to develop production would significant-
ly increase Government revenues and export earnings.
69.       As in all technical assistance projects, the main risk is that
the new structure created within DNE would not perform as adequ2tely as
expected. On the one hand, the assistance provided, the studies and re-
ports to be prepared may not be used effectively. The appointment of a
Resident Adviser to the Minister aims at minimizing this risk (para. 63),
since the Resident Adviser would assist in coordinating the findings and
conclusions of the Petroleum Unit and make recommendations on follow up
action and alternative policies and strategies in the sector. On the other
hand, there is a risk that the Petroleum Unit might continue to be overly
dependent on foreign know how. This risk has been addressed through the



- 22 -
provision of funds for training the staff of the Unit abroad and for
on-the-job training of the staff of the Unit by the experts from the
petroleum consulting firm (para. 55). Also, the Association will monitor
the project closely and provide assistance through the yearly review of the
staffing and work program of the Unit (para. 62). The main risk associated
with the proposed geophysical surveys is that the results might be
insufficiently attractive to spur widespread industry interest. However,
the advantages of proceeding with the airmag outweigh the relatively
limited costs involved. Even if the results do not induce strong interest
by foreign oil companies in the areas surveyed, it would help GOZ planners
and policymakers to better assess the resource limitations which the
country has to face.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion are being distributed separately to the Executive D)irectors.
71.       Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that the
the Petroleum Unit is established (para. 62) and that the Chief of the
Unit, one geologist, one geophysicist and one petroleum engineer have taken
up their positions in the Unit (para. 62).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
August 4, 1983



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                  Page -lof 5
218- S3ULO 13Ix23 0*7 53
;:a I?00SIW  MSM SO                                                       . -  .    C)XT CM. lVT TC' E
1g^L        m7                                                      LW  SECO           r    la6- s ir!E
*saZa..R-AL    IA.8       D       3O lb   1970 lb EZS2%&T1 /b  AiC6 SWtOF SJ13  ArUCA S0U nF S*31
CS FM cAii- CM$)                   30.0      140.0     20.0              X530.8               1033.2
EUE3= cmlm.-.MI PM1 CA-PITA
(M1AA%S OF CCA. LQW;XA7MM        35.5      103.     10.1                 WS                  "010
i0-.AI!n  J.a V=iTa S?AUS!CS
!vop=JIO5A  vW-.A1 .Ardsz5  17736.0    21053.0   a6.0
ltus FOPLA-Za?S CIRCMT  W 70U.) IS.         21.6     36.0               2..                   2a.
NWLATO  IRC:ECrZIS
UA:L1 IS 71M1:000 (ULLU)                           51.0
5.ul-               ir ;u)                         MO.
STeXIOS=IY O?ILATIC!6LACZLO                       150.0C
NM SQ. r.                       7.6        3.2     I.7                 2?.?                 361
21E  SQ. Ct. ACUZOt.X12*L TAD    U0.2      31     17.7                   .7                  .9
iO?mAXIOG  AGE STUC?WZ (flNFE
0-L4 TM                        46.1       44.3      6.7               4.8                   ".0
L5-64 TS.                      S2.         W.       52.5               32.3                  S1.
05 URS. AD AOVE                  3.0        2.3 2.6                     2,                    24
Tom                             2.2        2.0      ii                  2.7J
. S4     7.2                 42                   32
CIa= Bum E Rain   l CM OIEA)    08.0         74      4u.9               47.3                  47.2
CE ILAS M= (FM T7005)    24.3               21.5     17.9  -13                                 57
c0wS alml1a2X-'2  3*11            3.0        3.0      3.0                32
FAIIZZ KASSIN
AC.EZ0BS. ANIMAL. (EWOSADD)
rm  MDCV.   N =   M
055   iRE       BUIE  IEIn )     ..         ..       ..                  .
FvOOD AS; WrssCNe
- * OF MD brON
PM CApI.A (i569-7'-LOO)        01.0      10.0       MO.      e.7                            30.7
YEW CAMIA. SCWIL1. 00'
c*xmaES (prLINT 7
3E!1SE)                      3.3       10l1.    102.41c              30.2                 3.0
MM=  (o PER b        OLT)      3-1.3      37.6                        33.1                  SLO
OF E1C  SAM.L AM VDWL        13.1       1.7       M.M                  .4                 23.0
Can=D (*CES 1-4) M=kULl7 RA1M    32.7        7.3     2.0                23.7                  23.9
L1re  ECICT LT S31    (11*1)   40.0         12.7     67.1               63.0                  31.0
DfAbT MDZVA-= KATEtE
,-HOUSA)                        15.0       1I.      u.e                129.3                 10.3
ACCESS TO saix WA*1U CinRVIY Or
TDIZAL                          U~~~~~1.0  ILOWd            23.
Manx-33.0                                           md7C1g            50.3
RURAL                           4. .0               SAW1                a.
ACCESS To 7XCIZZA DIsWOSI (lZRUW
OFAL                             ..        3.0e      .0.               25                     ..
lEAN                             ..        3.0       oh7e                                     ...1
EagL                             ..        5.0      GAN71             2L.
PoPn5A   Ms llrSc             37M21.1    3010.5  13.3                2M037.3                   .2
IOPULATIOU FEZ 3RSSXG wUSOV    3511.7    2m.#   191..                 3226                  22
OMIX.-TON PIR flS?ITAL am
TOTAL                         230.3     322.0    333.0 1o5o 0103.46
C013*                          57.2       16.0    1.6.3              269.3                 430..
RuRL_                         70.5      16.7   2623.                 171.                 3013.0
A00S L m PM NVILTAL 30..                     ..        ..
wia14C  SIZ  w1 UOISELa
TOTAL                                 ..         ..
W.34                    ..        4.1.       .                   ..
SEL                             ..          ..      3.0...
ncta 
TTL                              ..         ..       ..
4134                             ..         ..       .                   ..
34.*                  .. .-*. '
Cal IRLLIMICS
Q113                             ..         ..       .....
.'sA.



- 24 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
2C~                         *lCC Q~LS CWIUU  UDZ
__- mS<  ri~~.7gI
wia  muIr            zW DC                 uzu.u D
:3o  n      WO a .syxW  A   M1.sU iE w' s$AMU  rUA   SDO  OF S33
c.i5A  ~Ou.L- R.xOS
nmAAr:    T-a                   60.0       83.0      ".0i.               63.2                  833
1Az                 U.O       1x1.0    1.3T                  7Z.7                  96.1
WZ                  3.9:       63.0      77.07-              30.3                  60.4
SICMUW!:      *                  3.0        9.0                          10.2                  I3.3
6.0       23.0      UAW                 1ml                   1
wgZK                1.0         6.0      z*.o7c               6.9                  13
VW_w_rAL KQOL. t. or sEc     S   26.M         3.6      '3. 2Cc              7.9 
P!?3L-cEAaKt PawI
P8IA42T                         39.9       43.6        .                 47.4                  39.6
seesman                        204        20.4      27.UC               26.                    3
ALT -VUACr VA  tPERCE)              fxf      13.0      57.9                36.0                  29.6
P1-PC.AT1S                       3.0        3.0       3.6~                2.0                  31.9
ROM30  CEiiE'S lI TSASD
2o2alAS                           ..  2.3             4.9                3n                     1.8
I? hEELI   !L' IWSPI
-:UL%TK                           _.        0.3        .                   .7                   7.9
UIIAU C3A1! CESMAL
S3A60 1Piz"rLox                    1.2        9.2       i-6                 2.9                  19.1
CDEN& AXWAL- AT;IDAK P1: aIM   0.1            0.1       0.3g                1.1                   0.6
iU A .Ua FO= (TuSuS)    923.3              9".5  U*636.
nlALI (PM.rT                    46.4    ;ILS         42                  36.1                  3LS
I   (?PCEF)          30         19.8      me0                13.6                   S6S
Z-USLT  ECIE16Vr                 9.0        U.0      1.0                  .2                  1.7
TOAL                              464        43.7      4.                  U.                    37.0
muLO                              31.9       69.8      460                   t.                  4.9
rLw:Lv-                           ".Z        330       3.                   m9.1                  7.2
-oS;C  DluE3 T WXO                   1.0    t    .1       12                  1.2                   1.3
3E0'E DStZS
UI,      SF 103aT O   O'l02        ..
GE5 20 PER=  OF   so.L            ..         ..        ...
&a :o r 2. PECET O05 SlS          ..         ..*
LUES- 40 1EC        OF IWMUSE==   ..         ..
UST-WTa AU1L.  19-03EI  D15CZ
MEL (us$ PER GAI.
3..                                         ..        ..                3.3                  30.0
L                                 .,         ..                           U.9                 200.6
ISTDUZiD  REAUTE 1211 INcOI
VPL CUSm PM CAFA)
Elam.                                        .       76.W1e              96.4                 3139
tSTfLuiED       WSU.rII DUMW A350131
ULS                               ..         ..                          39.3
RIVAL                             .-         ..    U60.0!                69.0
Not aprllcubL*.
is  The ep 8ve?Sge for .sc) di Uatr are p;mexatifa-miPd aridwettc _a. Cverg e  et etwtri
mcGn  e ldLcamers depends as awaZabllo of date me Is eat mifems.
lb   2Ieass c&h.rbwti  nata. doe ter 1960 waefr to am  yar btmm    159 amd  6;r L.    0.          19
and 1S71. anS for 2*c.t Roc.a astlatme but,... 1913 m  1960.
Ic  1977; /d 1i6. 1. Z975; It L%b; .  1974.
ma. 13,



- 25-                                                                   L NN EX I
Pa~ge3 ~of 5
"eaaL_lr tEUtr! hacab... the lar  of atedediaed totttta. m ci                      -L& -sat. .a-b ttfrt i-ot  to tl-.tI-.totr    n   a...s
lhe refttat flw   r  I,tea              ny sron cf th  aea  coatry.c  CZ) * itaty  .oa .eo   ....A atiote  osr. Sata  tha the.oto
at the .Oloo  Lc-r sc  fr NW   eo    OUl Wuotr  rwaeRiSte Zta grth AMrIr  as  MM. aota ie thon  batra  of aLma,
eoce-ettra  aflatit).Ia herefre  scow dat theaPro   at  rlaIo   artghtnd art%sti  sa    fa'r eac  L"lroaa  as  a-  sI? h-
ftate  - boot nrratsa cttlO  lad sa    d Salad caa  199v data                         chat  -1  -tota)dettLdd by their reretlt-  -r of hewtot bade
osietet-raciss-    asCriratar  ats ta-d tetrary at P.-may                      aroitohi  We nb-ie ad yrleaegs a         s.   wlad s  heirl at  re -
for csrs.  astas. nret S  blathe sydos       i to.i tall; tIN. data          hatteattsotet...ttt.. .aaiocsapssa-l  stffed
by at [sco on yirrs-icl    Worabloaneot  yrrtte  oratiraty9 eao
__W PU CAflb  M-l  - GM per -ite tarseo  at caaatetr ree.tl-da ea  ar  -Co isia                                       oal he-vtICla. Ieer. I-I.od  haatt
tltdby -acaoao   ote   sCraI    attn firfldOhot; Lloo.                            as este  cetrsn  eraai  oralfed be a                      Cyloa (a bya
19)0. -ad LIC Os-                                                                     state  oatao.   -er aid*Afe. -t.) edith   far le-prttet
datfZr St retds a  2laits raw of ndLtAl  atut[tte   Vet taIc-
EUMY OP=Wrti  PiE CAdT.Ir - anal  -e-L tcetof  erw (eat                                 tta  raoooa  art  hrtst tt.de %Ef rrl-tretleao,o tewLoel.
as [toct._ p-treta -..-Itos sot and badeo. aarae  St taateet sta-                      -t  --Ie  ba-It-t I.t. o rae?heetal  -a atdleal as - -arte7
data.                                                                     iteicafas -t aaIo rlratO. -hod 19  -P&sal aSe  of.W  -a-nte   LWea  t-
rW_AnsC AM O(2AL srTZATMaS
toI talPpoltt-. %id-,-s ttoaat)- aa  Jolo it 1110. 19,11. St US                   i
tot.                                                                              A--rs, Sloe at U.catod teontthsred    oa.obt   tt
a                firs Porelatleo fparan  .2 totl) - KAte of note. to total P._L aopict.. . ta.oti  t-salat atagrwt  didol                                 hreinsqrer
dLJ enet- del.L.1-aa  of art  -te  at affoot owarabl ty of dat                       St their .L.a  -I.. A beadrr - lots, fly e7        h  tetiad We
P=     catrae  Iii. 1970. St lit  at0                                                th  b.a-bet  far attist teal teaS-I.--     d-  
~ro W itar101 C-,Cco  VpapoLatt- prjaoseae  od -  tim                     hr of peer  P-,t ran We all  -ha          --L -r    I" -twa  esnan lso
Peojrtio icrtot.far nootty rtes eart.7.1 tWEa Iccoi I-               inoeriptat                                                 -aaer
tee-,. ad4 rteal  Ilfe r~t ye*lieaaa  77.1 year- The yer-                         Caaaatitl-   darattlas  01cr etnotruo'y We ina  IatrF Pcag
_.at fz.e ferrtlto rar ala. bee Lbr  tene. oancstat-r We                          of tooa. naba. St roya teitae  raetrc
f-.roilty  starLes"e  a-   Xe-I -t pat Entl. V'acieg ya-tre-.
roth teair  Wa tha  osl-d so of thes els tatt.-is  of --rslltt                Sf"
St=tottttto  -yrot !ar rrolcolo  t.eaeAtsedtrtactre
taia. nwral.ar - Itaettosc  roetlaie. tereSW en w-bc stat                       Wrs.a      l- oa. sto aot fose-Crs  oal  sa   tf
rhe 112h rate We -tool We the teth -at. St ala the at  sta-ot  e-                   enrl_s-n  ofaloea  iin  t      rsc  tco  at7 .-  osocaso  rntle
sta  tasa. Thci   ttntsyofWtltioyrt  aisa                                             rsyahet   eraoe;sah  taaos  hlane MId 5-li
the rarLtso  ta  of a-ratreo..itrr,a     -.th W-ttsis                               mashr  data a  di fr-r Is-rbs of riser oStt-r fat
of  : I--e ftaof eat!?. Theno. a-r  pepela-t ie an                                _1-ota  oath _L_tne  ntn-I..                         mgnla  ort-S[  P--rs
to th  yat1W, at th             d-e ~loe of ta-tIuy roe to rorct-                tarn.tor shoot - tota  alto  -1 tast. - C--td - Sos6 stda
nat laaI                                                                            Seotan ratre  at teat tsr7 t.s            ICe apenn  Pra.."atrti
Tsr atar orat Porelot- Is restd - The yea an ataiaay roreatta                         PceeZdas  -oea.eetoa.o rashe  1reels aorti  far  21
1-astl   eraot                                                                       el _I-f I2 to 17 peat ata;eC         cpaeretna   nsaal
Fao -tonta-r                                                                      Letdad.
tar st Sc- aitelr l 1s  - (enrd as at.  faraoaoia   a                         aa _r[ora darotat atea nlaioirc
anita USC. 1973 aS till data,                              ~~~~~~PoTt.toria r     P,=-rlao. Stc-don - toWel nodoreaaeta  We
he yers).St rtire  11yatr  at  tor a terr.aaee-     o nikt-ya  trn-            cttteoa  lae[s
ttaefr1950S   10fl   t12-. -dII  -                                         i.te ne  Care_ (y   lodtnLat-)-  Paao-ae toe.  teic  soert.
Crae in  tte  to  ceect - oat ia  Sttb  rr beaod o  sttorear  atis  oatha  oia  rraraP--teeestlarot"ben  S
her seal rycotattee Aeriodif eh  eser -ee  prst f-pol i  e-                   a-s     eefotddt far oraoy at L sypso he ewtobl  fdate I
anti tt-Lr -            pet Lry.  asfo (reosa .PL- hat    r@ sorarf-                  taro . .fra  reta 4         tof- i7-            b.rttor  a sro.tbae  to-
XtSehcarlydelt  Strdspc   a   sat               MGe fatly0knsld  peer.             eortroicrtttoadrasabt otee llee    t aea
.CbL%-3 Lf W         ..is!rtatsrar    _ta)-x Prtrntec ofL PaErlo                    i-c 1 totntie    We yea_e -o rnototo   ofTVstSeW ett
raoe  .c rF-t y  a.ttErr- ran- ttnrnala     - Zaca  ot P., rarto  asa               Cmo- osot Aotaat  v- C-Ir.a t  Year - Saoe    O.th  -r of
pnoti  tall1S f oetia-   rotatma&et -1.s set -d fat St                       ttht      Lsd t-tnt the yea. Wetioti  atie     frto trt.W  tas
iraof nea) .11h ate attli  St  -ooat  -ttL-r  (a-. .olts at
pry day  tAtLabte -opliie  trtarI  d-lati  trodrtlen  tn.      lo                   s -atbe  111. U]) S  19W data,
enorts  -t ebsoe  to "t-Io erte   nnt rs  te-1. -rd..                            rare (P--.an) -   oieta  I-ce a -traar or --to  lbor ore.
irttl . co  I. foo   arain  -ad tes-Wedotitttt  ter-                          doAcaltet  (ttta-) - Later tryt i. fa-L.t. foretr-. hetaft St
saenartLsatedt    rat bate  a. pbysiLoar-l nate fr- tn  sot-                    rahe   tP-yens tf total lab  ft-ae  1%110, 0N at lit d-tc
rto  Stit-lotcolteoenaortoata  t-rar--  boAt etat.  a--trc  fre ) - Lb-o tetto-&-n cnrata. stafatnrti
ba-ebej bete; iibi-t. 19o St [it data                                                Ine. b0M   t tifi taco,
alioanco rt t  oreof aco  retel  Wre tar St  0  re of ann1   S              tibd. 910. sat tiO dat- to    r baaa  anLIt'. tartiplaLa- rat
arda arem   than thb    of ISte   o -toa   -roe.i  -t f3 Wa- .f                              fr         - aaro   r fy   atlaa  sace.t
stea  ;roel  a-.       . ao     forth  -rId. rotoad hr rWA)i  h  f.0   %lr       trst  lraea.tre-Rtio -Tottlotte  Std- it St ti S  oat
tOrrd Wood amer  lil-. 1.01St[7 dat,                                                 oti  onlloei.t
Pe -Li.-rti  nal  ros aaL-ot..nc     - P-o.L. rWPIl ot toad de-
needtr.al-ta   t rats  Le  ra Per day. llt-tIs. tin) St .l  daa             EtCtltlli
aw arra  lea Sa . toctlOana to.Laetr.    far ca  taotapitt toe                    eer.rrEe -v  rr .P-raoa  10 -eeat,S  tata   t er
aeondatatroted  on 1[ftrabit; LId. 1U71 S  19W) dta-                       of heaahatt.
drone                                                                roO~~~~~~~~~~~~it   -&&LTh.y flair CoU
ocf ag  a t.    aadI. birth-; lie,60  ti9  oa  9   aa                                 Mto        Eteo  brsi-Ir to that L-s  ieeetheic                =    1t   at
-1yn. CoL-f :.ter-rt-ren of-tlts)-ttl-a-a.S b oral -.Ur-t                         aattsodsRet-y atiaae ro  ltia eI'll-a n.-fe   teeiost  ia so
reranses a  tei rr. aai- .:rI Ic,I ra-ba ota  a rebAt                               perroa  iton @2 rb- r-tm. iyha. le-I We torlen  ti- the rers
tactla o  attenar laato so s          den l2 - stteIr.a bee  sy he             it-I  -ot  -tnto   tot hhfior tot  ftlotn W aebs.o-        o
canelttod -  ates  lob   raaoabie -tn  of the. bs-     . I tota  as          lttotteainRtcSAo-ltt Po-art laeI                      tfetat    t
tsoonhr attas eXt wly thet the baa-a-f e atseor  or the  Eeoat                s   oe     eo   af rerlatia  (tfbat aSrtllaoe                  lt
to -  tee  to  P-4a  i.rrnier  pae-f th  tr  We 1. tottat the
.tone te ltorar  Dlttt (Lrt-c of trtto)-ba.nh~S   aa
oa-oatas  .2 their reretin            &-late   aE---  tIar-al sy t-LtAdt
the attlartis St &t-P-ae. esb ar tita   0           . ofb-   .ma
Vereettn at Phsita -Popelatt- tiettd" by a-6e  E2parae phoet.                                                  tetta  ta_bal Dat  Otrists
-otta   ye. arar   at--Praioo  taddb p~r- .fpettteehe  10
ste Sft fele   otw        ta.Soassm-patia    rsa



ANN   I
-26-                                    Page C of 5
UlRu - ECOUOIC !NDIC
ONL ACCOuSS 1
(3illio  USS at    Share of CDP at Market Prices (Z)   Anal Crowth tates (Z)
corrent prices)           (at current prices)          (at constant 1970 prle)
1981                       1981                   1979     1980      1981
Gross Domestic Product;!     5.384.1                      100.0                   0.3      2.4      2.4
(CDP Commercialized)        (4,222.5)                     (78.4)                (0.2)    (2.4)      2.4
Agricu1lt'.x                1,722.2                      32.0                   3.1      2.8       2.7
Industry (inl. mining      1.269.5                       23.6                  -6.1      4.4      4.8
Setrices                   2,183.7                       40.6                   4.6      0.1      0.4
consuSptim                   4,717.3                       87.6                  -3.6      7.2      6.8
Gross investeent             1.361.2                       25.3                  56.8     72.4   -49.8
Ezports of GZWS                966;7                       1B.0                 -21.0     23.    -44.6
lcports cf CPBS              1.661.1                       30.9                   7.7    222.0   -62.8
Gross national singg           347.1                        6.4                   6.0    41.3      57.3
p?U.C F=0NCI CentrAl Co _    t)                 (ilion                         I of CD?
A c t u a 1                (at market prices)
1979       1g6         1981         1979       1981
Carreot reve ce                       1,944.4    3,.4        4,751.5        17.5       20.3
Current expanditures                  2.391.7    3.850.4     5,964.0        21.S       25.3
Curreat defici:                         447.3       73.0     1,382.5         4.0        S.0
capital expenditures                   129.3       Z46.4       539.7         1.2        2.3
Overall qefci:t                        576.6       319.4     1,722.2         5.2        7.3
M-T, CREDIT AMPRISDm    -                          L979          1980              1981
(mi11ion; outstading end pqod)-
Honey and Q=si Money                              2,084.9       3.367.3           4,644.9
Bank Credit to Public Sectr                       2,062.2       2,329.4           3,783.6
lank Credit to Private Sector                      878.7        1.014.3           1,342.4
CPercentse or Indez lumber)
Noney and Qasi Money (as Z of GDP?- market price)   18.8           19.6             19.7
Consumer Price Indez (1975 - 200)A/                912.7        1.313.3          1,613.1
Anu;sal percentage changes In
Consucer Price Inem                              101.3           43.9             38.1
Bank Credit to Puhlic Sctor                         30.7          13.0              62.4
tank Credit to Private Sector                       37.1          15.4              32.3
60TE: All conversions to dollars In this table are at the aversg
exchange rate prevailing during tbe period covered.
11    D18 figures we prelimin&Ty.
21    At market prices; comonents am expressed at factor cost and will
not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsies.
31   Cash operations onl;: ezcluds foreign  ramts and expenditur.
flanced 'by foreign sources.
YI    Consumer price indez for de city of Klnshas.
Deceber 17. 1982
**   Zairian statistics have numerous shortcomings and should be used with caution.
This is especially true of the official gross investment estimates which are
inconsistent with other trends in the economy.



- 27 -
ANE  I
Page-5 of 5
ZAIRE - EC0NMWIC MSICKITORS
5"nLACE OF PAViETS;                           1979         1980        1981
(Lion USS at eurrent p`rces)
Exports of goods and services              1,9(4.6     Z,088.4      1,589.5
of which:  Xerchandise F.0.S.           (1,834.0)   (1,956 9)   (1.494.0)
Imporcs of goods and services              1.967.3     2,219.9      2,196.7
of which-  Xerchandise F.O.B.           (1,106.9)   (1,201.3)   (1,096.6)
Private transfers (net)                      -96.6        -76.9       -82.5
Current Accounr Balance                     -149.3      -W.4        -689.7
Official gra=;s t-e:)                        164.1        208.Z       188.7
Pablic Capital (net)                         -69.6       -23.8      -159.2
Private Capital (net) and errors and
omissioas                                 -220.4      -2.D.1        -66.0
SDR AllocatLon                                20.4        20.8        1.9
Other Financing I1                           22.8         265.5       490.5
Chang  il net iaternational reserves         -8.0        -31.8        216.5
(- - increases)
EXCRA.'E RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 27, 1979                   1.00 - SDR 0.5
August 27, L979-February 22, 1980                Z 1.00 - SDR 0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1951                  5 1.00 - SDI 0.263
Since June 19. 1981                              f 1.00 - SDB 0.158
AVERAGE EXCHA.WE PATES:
1978                                             55$ 1.00 - a 0.836
1979                                             M3  1.00 - Z 1.729
1980                                             DS$ 1.00 - a 2.800
1981                                             US$ 1.00 . 1 4.384
NERGHSDSE EXPORTS (1981)                          Milliom USS          Z
Minerals and Petrolei,m                          1,270.7             35.1
Others                                             222.9             14.9
Total                                          1-493.              100.0
EXrMqAL DET. Dec. 31, 1981 V                     (million us$)
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed                    4.254.0
Non-Guaranteed                                     350.0
Total outstanding S Disbursed                    4.604.0
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 -A
Public Debc  incl. guaranteed                       14.2
Ion-Guaranteed Privace Debt                          3.3
BRDfrDA LESDI3CG                                       million USS
j of September 30, 1982)                         IBD                 IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                          76.94             200.3t
Undisbursed                                       0                237.67
Outstanding, incL. Uwdisbursed                   76.94             437.98
I/  Includes payments arrears, debt rescheduling, emergency assistance. and
profit on gold sales.
2I Preliminary estimates.
/ Ratio of debt service to exports of ioods ind non-factor services.
Represents actual payments.
December 17, 1982



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1983)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                    Amount in US$ million
Number      Year       Borrower                  Bank         IDA I/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June   Congo &    Transport      91.58 2/
1960      Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                        100.00
Ten Credits Fully Disbursed                                  119.50         0.14
571       1975       ZAIRE      Rail-River II               26.00        1.21
624       1976       ZAIRE      Education II                21.00       18.95
660       1977       ZAIRE      Cotton Reha-
bilitation                 8.00         3.24
697       1978       ZAIRE      Ituri Livestock
Development                8.00         0.42
7LO       1978       ZAIRE      Fourth DFC                  10.00        0.20
796       1978       ZATRE      Oil Palm                     9.00        9.84
902       1979       ZAIRE      Railways                    20.00       10.09
916       1979       ZAIRE      Highway IV                  26.00        6.01
998       1980       ZAIRE      Fifth Dev. Finance          18.50        8.31
1040       1981       ZAIRE      Smallholder Maize           11.00        9.43
1089       1981       ZAIRE      Kwilu Ngongo Sugar          21.79 5/     9.94 6/
1152       1981       ZAIRE      Kwango-Kwilu
Technical Assistance       2.59 5/      2.28 6/
1180       1982       ZAIRE      ONATRA Modernization        24.38 51    23.60 6/
1224       1982       ZAIRE      Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation            17.69 5/    17.59 6/
1241       1982       ZAIRE      Water Supply II             17.26 3/    16.82 6/
1244       1982       ZAIRE      Agriculture T.A.             4.85 5/    11.66 6/
1264       1982       ZAIRE      Second Cotton               10.57 51    10.57 6/
1273       1982       ZAIRE      Sixth DFC                   20.92 31    20.92 6/
1290       1983       ZAIRE      Highways V                  41.64 3/    41.64 61
1325 4/    1983       ZAIRE      North East Rural Dev.       13.27 -/    13.27 6/
1335 T/    1983       ZAIRE      Ports Rehabilitation        24.92 -/    24.92 6/
1336       1983       ZAIRE      Gecamines TA                 7.01 3/     7.01 6e
Total (less cancellations):                     191.58       483.89       258.96
- of which has been repaid                    118.48         0.98
Total now outstanding:                           73.10       482.91       258.96
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/ Credit 255-CK, originally US$7.0 million, has closed with undisbursed balance
of US$80,000 which will be cancelled; Credit 398-ZR has several withdrawal
applications pending which, when paid, will leave a balance of about
US$60,000 to be cancelled.
4/ This credit was signed but is not yet effective.
S1 Computed at the March 31, 1983 rate of 1.07867.
6/ Computed at market rate on dates of disbursement.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
Amount sold:                    54.47
- of which has been repaid      54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/               76.94      437.98
Total Undisbursed:                               0.0                 237.67
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT 1/ (As of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                            Type of        Amount in US$ Millions
Year   Obligor                   Business        Loan  Equity   Total
1970    Societe Financiere de
Developpement (SOFIDE)  DFC                -    0.76      0.76
1979    Zaire Gulf Oil Company   Oil Company    2.50    -          2.50
1979    Zaire Petroleum Company  Oil Company    1.61    -          1.61
1983    Nord-Sud Industrie-
ROBSTOFF GMBH, for studies
on an aluminium project                  0.23    -       0.23
Total gross commitments                   4.34   0.76      5.10
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     2.88     -      2.88
Held by IFC                               1.46   0.76      2.22
C.    PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1983
Credit 571-ZR          Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 30, 1983
The project included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including a
comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the
Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering
study for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially
slow due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints
1I These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not purport
to present a balance evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



- 30 -
lLNXEX II
Page 3 of 9
which improved during execution.   All procurement is now completed or underway;
and credit funds are fully committed. ONATRA's financial performance has im-
proved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have improved in
the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway. While over-
all project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, extension of the Closing
DE..e is being considered to allow for some additional procurement of spare
parts.
Credit 660-ZR          Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been slow from the beginning due to
various administrative obstacles and the dissolution of OWAFITEX, the National
Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978. Coton-Zaire, a public
enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on October
10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were transferred to
Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the company with
clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have been carried out
on a regular schedule and production, although still very low, is increasing.
Producer prices have been increased since 1981 in nominal terms. Efforts now
focus on converting Coton-Zaire from a public to a mixed-capital company, like
those that handle cotton promotion elsewhere in Zaire and which are to be
supported by IDA's Second Cotton Project (Cr. 1264-ZR). Continuity of effort
and support for area cotton farmers are at stake in view of the credit's end-
1982 closing date. Government is now negotiating with possible private sector
partners.
Credit 697-ZR          Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977: Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter facilities
including two abattoirs.   Despite slow project start-up and continuing
constraints related to high rates of inflation, low prices for beef, late
receipt of government counterpart funds impressive results have been achieved.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
They include: (i) the establishment and operation of a veterinary and livestock
extension service; (ii) the implementation of a training progrem for extension
officers and livestock producers; (iii) the establishment of a livestock
producer cooperative which arranges the supply of veterinary products; (iv)
vaccination and drenching of about 200,000 cattle annually (two thirds of the
project's objective); tv) initiation of pasture development; and (vi)
establishment of regular livestock markets. Future emphasis in the subsector
should be placed on expansion of marketing.
Credit 710-ZR        Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977;
Effective Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a
substantial share of its initial resources through an IPC equity investment of
US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of US$10
million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977.  SOFIDE started operating on
July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank. In May 1973, a
Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the
Bank-seconded General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run
and capable development bank, despite the policies of zairianization
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE
has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key
economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE has also
decentralized its operation and bas recently opened three regional offices. In
1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project perfirmance
audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFIDE had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a compytent
organization. The original closing date (December 31, 1981) was extended by one
year to permit disbursement of the remaining credit funds which were fully
committed to subprojects. The credit closed at end 1982 as scheduled.
Credit 796-zR          Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978:
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1985; Cofinanced by African Development Fund (ADF)
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economigue en Afrique
(BADEA) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economigue
(CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mills and transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure; the employment of additional
staff, and training of staff. Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government over the role of the



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
companies in the Project; by administrative bottlenecks, particularly in the
Hinistri- of Agriculture; and by the complex cofinancing arrangements. One of the
three companies which was to participate in the project has withdrawn and the
investment and financing plans were revised. Of the remaining companies, one
has begun a planting program out of its own resources but has delayed a major
decision on rehabilitation of its oil mills until 1982. The second company has
placed equipment orders for vehicles and oil mill parts to start its planting
and oil mill rehabilitation program. Cancellation of BADEA's $4.4 million credit
on August 10, 1982 will force a revision of cost estimates and the financing
plan. It may be possible to accomodate these without major disruptions as a
result of savings in oil-mill rehabilitation.
Credit 902-ZR          Railway Project: US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for
Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the
OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes track rehabilitation,
equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's effective capacity.
The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and 12 passenger
coaches; Cc) spare parts for locomotives and wagons; (e) extension of Ilebo pc_t
facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g) middle/senior technical and
management staff training and consultant services. Effectiveness of this credit
was delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. Disbursements have also been slow owing to the weakness of
purchase and storage controls which prevented placing purchase orders in a
timely manner. The Project scope is being revised following the decision of the
Saudi/OPEC Funds to suspend disbursements. Postponement of the closing date
will be necessary because of delays in the effectiveness of the Credit.
Credit 916-ZR          Fourth Highway Project: US$26 million Credit of June
14,1979; Effective Date: July 16, 1980; Original
ClosingDate: December 31, 1982, postponed to December 31,
1983;Cofinanced by the EEC Special Action Fund and the
SaudiFund for Development.
The project was designed to help finance the 1979-81 road
maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Office des Routes (OR). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved road; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable ferries



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the Nationial Public Works Laboratory, and technical
assistance and training. Implementation of the project had to be postponed
owing to a one year delay in credit effectiveness. Procurement of equipment and
spare parts is now substantially completed, and the maintenance/rehabilitation
program which has been extended to include 1982, has become fully operational.
However fuel shortages in 1982 endangered seriously the execution of the program
and maintenance objectives for 1982 were not achieved. Solutions are largely in
place to overcome the problems created by the Saudi Fund's decision to suspend
disbursements on its remaining balance.
Credit 998-ZR:        Fifth DFC;  US$18.5 Million Credit of June 16, 1980;
Effective Date: January 22, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
As of September 30,1982 US$15.5 million of this Credit had been
committed under the investment component and US$1.6 million for the working
capital component . Disbursement of credit funds is expected to accelerate
rapidly in the latter half of 1982 following the normal IDA and SOFIDE approval
of sub-projects and the placement of orders. Comments on SOFIDE are reflected
under Credit 710-ZR.
Credit 1040-ZR         Smallholder Maize Project: US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Effective Date: May 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987; Cofinanced by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and African
Development Bank (ADB)
The project aims to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km2 around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes of
about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs including
fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and sales services
and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private marketing sec-
tor; (c) development of improved extension, training and research facilities;
(d) development of road and drinking water infrastructure; and (e) technical
assistanc-e in support of the above activities. Project implementation is pro-
ceeding well after initial financial and personnel recruitment problems. Maize
output increased by about 30,000 tons in the first agricultural year - far in
excess of projections; fertilizer and seed demand are very strong and credit re-
payments are good. The principal problem is weak Government budgetary support,
notably failure to provide PMKD, the implementing agency, with fertilizer as
agreed.  PMKO also has personnel and procurement problems.



- 34 _
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Credit 1089-ZR         Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project: US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; Effective Date; May 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project aims at increasing sugar production through the
rehabilitation and expansion of factory, field and transportation capacity and
also at promoting foodcrop production. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily; procurement and disbursement are well advanced. It is expected
that factory rehabilitation and expansion will be completed one year ahead of
schedule and field rehabilitation according to schedule; construction of housing
and offices is nearly completed. Foreign exchange allocations have been below
agreed levels and the Project entity has had to purchase foreign exchange on the
parallel market. Supervision missions have discussed the matter with Government
but have met with no success. However, Project implementation will not be
delayed by this problem.
Credit 1152-ZP         Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project: US$2.9 million
Credit of July 23, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Credit was declared effective on July 7, 1982. CODAIK, the
mixed capital development company has been established, technical assistance has
been recruited and the Government is reviewing the 1983 work program.
Credit 1180-ZR         ONATRA Modernization Project: US$26.0 million Credit of
March 10, 1982; Effective Date: October 5, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986 (cofinanced by AfDB and KfW
(Federal Republic of Germany).
The Project aims at replacement of a substantial part of ONATRA's
river transport fleet and rehabilitation of 65 km of railway line. The project
is proceeding well. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France) has
approved funds for the purchase of goods that were initially proposed for
financing by BADEA, which withdrew from the project for non-effectivenss of its
loan.
Credit 1224-ZR:        Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project:US$19 Million of
June 9, 1982; Effective Date: November 11, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987. (Cofinanced by Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economigue, CCCE, of France
The project will rehabilitate the electrical generating stations and
the transmission and distribution system of the Shaba region to minimize the
risk of failure of the supply of energy to the mining industry and particularly
to Gecamines. SNEL management, planning, operating and maintenance capabilities
will be strengthened with the services of experts and provision of equipment,
vehicles and spare parts. A delay in Credit Effectiveness was experienced when
the original cofinancier withdrew from the project.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Credit 1241-ZR:        Second Water Supply Project:  US$18 Million Credit of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: November 15, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project as designed at appraisal would strengthen and expand
production and distribution systems to improve water supply service in the
towns of Kisangani, Mbuji-Mayi and Likasi. The operating and maintenance
capability of REGIDESO would also be strengthened through provision of
materials, equipment, vehicles, training and experts' services. Co-financing
of US$9.3 million for works in Likasi city was to have been provided by the
OPEC Fund for International Development, but has not been forthcoming as
anticipated; the Government has requested supplemental financing by the
Association, and this request is being reviewed. Tenders have been launched
for the IDA financed cities of Kisangani and Mbuyi-Mayi. Contracts for
supplies have been awarded and the civil work contract should be awarded by
end May 1983.
Credit 1244-ZR:        Agriculture Technical Assistance Project: US$5 Million
Credit of May 20,19B2; Effective Date: November 30,
1982; Closing Date: December 31,1985.
The project will provide experts' services to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development to strengthen pcoject preparation,
planning, financial and budgetary management; and to advise on project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and to the Government to assist in
review of key policy issues.
Credit 1264-ZR:        Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project:  US$11.3 Million
Credit of August 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 31,
1983.  Closing date:  June 30, 1986.
The project will form an essential element of a long-term cotton
rehabilitation program initiated by the Goverament in 1978. The main
objective to increase cotton production in the areas of three major cotton
companies, La COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO and ESTAGRICO. The project will also aim
at stimulating production of foodcrops grown in rotation with cotton and at
improving living conditions by expanding communications and health services.
Credit 1273-ZR:        Sixth DFC Project:  US$ 21.5 Million Credit of August6,
1982; Effective Date: March 15, 1983; Closing Date:
December 3, 1986.
The IDA Credit would (a) finance the foreign exchange component
(US$19.5 million) of the capital investment requirements of subprojects
approved by SOFIDE in the agriculture, transportation and industrial sectors;
(b) provide foreign exchange resources to SOFIDE to enable it to upgrade its
management and control systems and staff capabilities (US$0.9 million); and
(c) finance the foreign exchange component of studies to improve industrial
sector policy formulation and project selection (US$1.1 million).



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Credit 1290-ZR:        Fifth Highway Project:  US$43.5 million Credit
of October 29, 1982; Effectiveness Date: June
30, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1986;
cofinanced by AfDB.
The project is designed to support the 1983-85 work program of
Office des Routes by continuing the country-wide road maintenance and
rehabilitation program begun under the Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 916-ZR)
and includes resurfacing and strengthening of 165 km of paved roads;
reconstruction of bridges, replacement of ferries, construction of ferry
approaches, procurement of laboratories equipment and studies.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
ZAIRE
PETROLEUM SECTOR !TCHW.ICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:                August-1982
(b)  Project Preparation by:        DM  and IDA
(c) Appraisal Mission:              February 1983
(d)  Negotiations:                  June 9-10, 1983
(e)  Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness:        November 1983
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
Ci) Nc later than August 15 of each year, the Borrower would
complete an annual review with the Association of the
staffing requirements and work program of the Petroleum Unit
for the following year (para. 62);
(ii)  The Borrower would open and maintain a Special Account into
which would be paid the foreign and local proceeds of sales
of reports and information compiled during the Project, use
the proceeds exclusively to finance activities in the
petroleum sector, and consult with the Association on the
utilization of the sales proceeds (para. 64) and
(iii) Special conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a) Establishment of the Petroleum Unit (para. 62) and;
{b) The appointment of the Chief of the Petroleum Unit as
well as a geologist, a geophysicist and a petroleum
engineer (para. 62).



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
ZAI
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Planned Schedule of Implementation
Joint Airmag Coordinating Meeting (Kinshasa)          March 1983
PPF Approval                                          March 1983
Selection of Airmag Contractor                        Hay 1983
IDA Approval of Terms of Reference and
short list for Exploration Consultants Firm            May 1983
Signature of Contract with Airmag Firm                 June 1983
Start of work (Exploration Consulting Firm)            July 1983
Start of Airmag                                       July 1983
Establishment of Petroleum Unit                        July 1983
End of Airmag (data acquisition)                       August 31, 1983
Selection of Legal Firm                                September 1983
End of Airmag (data processing)                        December 1983
End of Airmag Interpretation                           April 1984
Results Geochemical Studies                            May 1984
Reserves Study Completion                              June 1984



- 39 -
ANNE V
ZAIRE
PETROLEM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated Disbursemet Schedule
IDA FY       Quarter       Quarterly       Cumuaative
1984            I            380              380
II           430              810
III           440            1,250
IV           460            1,710
1985            1            660            2,370
II           590            2,960
III           240            3,200
IV           220            3,420
1986            I            220            3,640
II           260            3,900
III           280            4,180
IV           240            4,420
1987            I             40            4,460
II            40            4,500
III
IV



- 40 -
ANNEX VI
- ~ZAIRE
PETROLEU( SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTA'UNCE PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.      IFC Report 78-70 of September 27, 1978, Proposed Investment in an
Off-shore Oil Project, Zaire.
2.      IBRD Report 4077-ZR of November 1. 1982, ZAIRE Country Economic
Memorandum - Recent Economic and Sectoral Developments and Current
Issues Volume II.
3.      Banque du Zaire, Les Prix des Produits Petrollers Raffines, October
15, 1982.
4.       SOREPZA, ZAIREP et L'Association ZAIREP/SHELL/AMOCO, February 26,
1981.
5.      SOZIR, Traitement de Brat a la Raffinerie SOZIR de 1uanida, December
29, 1982.
6.      PETROZAIRE, Financial Statements 1979-1981.



- 41 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 5
ZAIRE
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Geology of Zaire
A  - GENERAL GEOLOGY
1.       Zaire is a large country measuring 1900 km (1180 mi) both in its
greatest North-South or East-West direction. The total area is 2,344,104 km2
(905,063 square miles). Because Zaire has only 35 km of coastline along the
Atlantic Ocean and impressive natural barriers such as large rivers, deep
lakes, and mountain ranges, the accessibility is difficult even along the
Congo River which is not navigable between Kinshasa and Matadi because of
numerous rapids and falls. An enormous (810,000 km2 or 310,000 square miles)
interior basin in the shape of a sink, called the Cuvette Congolaise, is
covered with tropical forests and cut by hundreds of streams whose banks are
usually very steep, rendering land comnunications a tremendous problem. Map
Nr. 17214 shows the geology of Zaire.
2.       To this hostile geographic environment corresponds a rather simple
geologic setting: upon an old Basement framework of Archean granites,
metamorphics and intrusives, sometimes mineralized with gold, tin, rare
earths, rest Pre-Cambrian sedimentary rocks usually intensely folded and
sheared into thrust sheets often richly mineralized (copper, cobalt, zinc,
uranium, etc.) particularly in Southern Zaire. Some of the Pre-Cambrian rocks
are made up of algal limestones and dolomites which could have conceivably
generated gas, probably escaped eons ago.
3.  w    The oldest Paleozoic rocks reported until now belong to tze Karroo
Series of Carboniferous to Permian age. These rocks are preserved in isolated
patches or else in grabens and contain coal deposits in Luena (North Shaba)
and near Kalemie on Lake Tanganyika. These formations too could have
generated gas deposits which, if properly protected, could still be a goal for
exploration in the Cuvette.
4.       Finally, a sequence of sands and shales, usually of continental
origin with however some marine deposits, have been deposited in the Cuvette,
intermittently in some places, dating from Triassic until recent time. Some
of the shales, particularly near Kisangani, called the Stanleyville Series of
Late Jurassic age, could have yielded hydrocarbons under adequate protection
and conditions of burial.
5.       The Congo Coastal Basin is made up of a folded sequence of sands,
shales and limestones in part of continental and of marine origin with a thick
evaporite section (salt) which is used as a reference to differentiate the



- 42 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 5
folding pattern (pre-salt: fault-controlled folds, and post-salt: possibly
salt induced folds). This Coastal Basin is part of a petroleum province which
extends from Southern Angola up to Ghana.
B - PETROLEUM GEOLOGY
6.       Zaire has three sedimentary areas of very different size, setting and
potential, separated by Basement uplifts. From east to west, they are:
(a) The Tanganyika Graben, 1400 km long and 20-60 km wide, which has
some hydrocarbon seepages in Lake Tanganyika and in the region
of Lake Mobutu in its northern part;
(b)  The Congo Central Basin or Cuvette covering about 810,000 km2
which has been little exploreid until now, and
(c) The Coastal Basin (approximately 6,000 km2) one of West Africa's
pericratonic basins which accounts for all of Zaire's oil
production.
The Tanganyika Graben (East Africa West Rift)
7.       This elongated major structural feature is filled with poorly known
sediments of possible Karroo, Jurassic, Cretaceous and Tertiary ages. Shales
that could have generated hydrocarbons and sandstones that could have acted as
reservoirs have been reported, but generally no detailed stratigraphic studies
were made due to lack of outcrops or of economic interest. No stratigraphic
drilling has taken place in the Zairian side of the graben, but some shallow
wells were drilled in the 1920's in Uganda and oil and gas shows were reported
although sophisticated methods to study ditch samples were not available at
the time.
8.       The most prospective sections of the Tanganyika Graben are the Lake
Mobutit-Semliki Plains-Lake Edward segment (shared between Zaire and Uganda),
and the Ruzizi Plains at the northern end of Lake Tanganyika, shared between
Zaire and Burundi. The operation of moving a land rig to drill a couple of
wildcat wells in each segment appears feasible, although costly. Lake
Tanganyika itself, except for its very northern end, is not attractive due to
its great depths (down to more than 1200 m or 4000 ft); the logistical
problems to move an offshore rig are prohibitive and production facilities for
water depths greater than 200 m are still in the trial stage. Deviation
drilling from the lake shores would probably be possible although the flanks
are rather steep and are often made up of intensely faulted hard rocks
(Basement).
The Congo Central Basin Cuvette Congolaise
9.       This enormous expanse (about 800,000 kkm2) of almost unexplored
land covers most of Zaire and the People's Republic of the Congo. It is an
intracratonic basin with potential source rocks and reservoir rocks whose
extension is not known. Karroo shales (Ecca), Jurassic marine shales,
Cretaceous paralic shales comparable to those of the coastal basins are known
to occur on the edges of the Cuvette, often in patchy outcrops, but their
extension into the central part of the Cuvette and their development are only
surmized. The drilling of a total of four wells, one per 200,000 km2, is
certainly not enough to rule out the possibilities of the basin. Both the



- 43 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 5
Dekese and Samba wells drilled in the 1950's indicate a small thickness of
potential source rocks (perhaps 10 to 15 m) and potential reservoirs of rather
poor quality. Esso drilled two wells near Mbandaka and Gilsan and although
the results were not disclosed, it is believed that they are not encouraging
in terms of stratigraphy.
10.      The Cuvette apparently has structural characteristics similar to
those of the Chad-Benue system or the Sudan Interior Basin - a setting of
horsts and grabens often cutting each other at an angle. If the source rocks
happen to be well developed in trough areas shown on some magnetic maps, there
might be possibilities of oil and gas generation and of accumulations if
appropriate traps exist. The most likely of these are pinchouts and porosity
wedgeouts on the flanks of the horsts (highs). To date, no oil or gas seeps
or shows have been reported in the basin.
The Coastal Basin
11.      The Coastal Basin has a-total area of about 6,000 km2 of which 1,000
km2 are offshore. It has been well explored and has reached the maturity
stage concerning exploration. The sedimentary fill consists of Mesozoic to
recent sediments, predominantly shale/siltstone with irregular carbonate
intervals and a thick evaporite or salt (the Loeme) layer. The sedimentary
section of a continental origin rests with a coarse basil sandstone (the
Lucula) upon an uneven basement surface. Disharmonic folding occurs: pre-salt
and post-salt folds are not superposed. Source rocks are common throughout
the section. Reservoir rocks with the exception of the Lucula basal quartz
sand and the Toca limestone sand below the salt, are usually of poor
quality: tight siltstones and sandstones with some channel sand developments
that have a high yield of oil. Cap rocks of shales usttally seal the
reservoirs above and below the salt, which in turn insulates the pre-salt
section. The post-salt oil is somewhat a parafinic and high-pour crude which
needs to be mixed at the terminal with pre-salt crude of lesser viscosity.
12.      Traps are structural in the post-salt section; they may have been
salt induced. Pre-salt traps are basement controlled and are created by
drapeovers on fault blocks, overlaps and pinchouts and also by channel sands
(Toca). At present, some 24 structural prospects have been identified
offshore and probably as many on land.
13.      The onland part of the basin also contains a tar belt along its
margin where sands of the Vermelha formation and some beds of the underlying
Mavuma limestone formation are impregnated with heavy to tarry oil.
Basinwards these formations are producing 340 API gravity oil. Asphalt has
been exploited over the years near Mavuma for waterproofing and road paving.
Apparently the overburden is quite thick, the quality of the deposits
decreases rapidly and they tend to be patchy. Thus the outlook for future
developments is not favorable, particularly since a cheap source of energy,
the associate gas from the onshore or offshore fields, may not be available
becauise it is used for enhanced oil recovery.



- 44 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 5
C - EXPLORATION ACTIVITY
Past Exploration
14.      Exploration for oil in Zaire started in 1952 with field
reconnaissance in the Central Basin by the mining company REMINA, for the
mining consortium, "Syndicat pour l'Etude Geologique et Miniere de la Cuvette
Congolaise. Short refraction seismic lines were shot in 1954 that led to the
drilling of two stratigraphic holes-Samba (total depth 6,687 ft) and Dekese
(total depth 6,089 ft) in 1955-56. This early effort ended fruitlessly in
1962. In 1972 Shell took aa exploration permit in the Cuvette and did a
reconnaissance airmag survey followed by reconnaissance seismic (1,200 km)
along the Congo River and a tributary. Texaco joined Shell in 1973. Shell
decided to withdraw from the deal after disappointing seismic results.
Following reinterpretation of the airmag survey, Esso signed a joint venture
agreement with Texaco in 1979 providing for the drilling of two wells to earn
a 50% participation. No information was published on these wells, but they
are believed to be not successful and to have no shows. Obviously these wells
were implanted to gather stratigraphic information on both flanks of a
postulated regional basement high where formation wedges were supposed to
occur.
15.      The initial exploration effort in the Coastal Basin started in 1956
with the granting of a concession over the basin to SOLICO, a REMINA
subsidiary. In 1959, as a result of a new distribution of the Coastal Basin
acreage, Petrofina received the concession for the onshore Coastal Basin
leaving SOLICO with the offshore portion only. Zairep, the operator in the
onshore Coastal Basin for the group comprising Petrofina, Shell Lirex and
Amoco Zaire Petroleum, started exploration in 1959 with field work and seismic
surveys. The first vell, Lindu-1, was drilled in 1963 and some encouraging
oil and gas shows were found which indicated that hydrocarbons had been
generated in the basin. Altogether Zairep drilled 29 wells. Oil was first
discovered in 1978 in Mibale E at an onshore extension of Gulf offshore Mibale
Eield. Zairep discovered oil accumulation in the Liawenda and Kinkasi
structures in 1978. These structures still need further delineation. Due to
poor reservoir characteristics the Liawenda field will require the drilling of
numerous wells and an investment capital on the order of several tens of
million US dollars.
16.      Shortly after SOLICO was left with the offshore Coastal Basin in
1959, Gulf Oil entered into a joint venture agreement with SOLICO.  ZAIRE Gulf
Oil (Zagoc) is now operator in the offshore Coastal Basin for a group
comprising Zaire Petroleum, a subsidiary of Teikoku Oil, and Moanda Oil, a
subsidiary of CONETRA (ex-SOLICO), under an exploration convention granted in
August 1969. After the initial field geology work, Gulf carried out
geophysical surveys and finally drilled the discovery well, GCO-IX, in
1970-71. Further exploratory drilling ended with the discoveries of Mibale
field in 1973 and Mwambe field which were put on stream in 1976 and 1980
respectively.



- 45 -
ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 5
Present Situation
17.      Offshore Coastal Basin.  The Gulf group has finished drilling a
delineation well on a newly discovered marginal field.
18       Onshore Coastal Basin.  The Zairep Group plans to drill a few wildcat
wells to further evaluate their acreage. AMOCO Zaire has pulled out of the
joint venture, leaving Petrofina and Shell only.
19       Central Basin.  No activity is planned by the Consortium (Texaco-
Esso). PetroZaire would like to program a gravity survey in areas proposed by
ERTS on the basis of their Landsat studies.
Production and Reserves
29.      The history of production in Zaire thus far is as follows.
1969-70:  discovery of GCO field
1973   : discovery of Hibale
1975   : start of production
1976   : pe-ak production
For yearly total production, see para. 42 of main report.
21.      Present production is around 23,000 b/d slowly ris'.g to an expected
25,000 b/d in about a year.
22.      A rough estimate of existing and future reserves is as follows:
million
barrels
Remaining reserves of producing fields  ....   22
Reserves of discoveries to be developed  ...   80
Total Explored Reserves ...............  102
Cumulative production, end of 1982 ........   54
Estimated reserves of future discoveries ...   300
At today's production rate, the explored reserves of Zaire will
suffice for another twelve years.
D. CONCLUDING REMARKS
23.      The petroleum potential of Zaire is unevenly distributed, from great
in the Coastal Basin to very modest in the Tanganyika Graben through poor in
the Central Basin. Additional exploratory work is needed to upgrade both the
Central Basin and the Tanganyika Graben. Several hundred million US dollars
are likely to be spent before petroleum might be discovered in the Cuvette or
Central Basin.



NIGIER                                                            iD- 2
i=/ ----I  C"^         u ,-                      TRAL         AF     
~Z  ~CMA%  HUD                          CENTRAL  AFRICAN
gAFRCN REP                             BANGUl
ZAIR    W- .__/
L
~~~~OF THE
*r       CONGO  D /                     os
_,.~~   LS "          -        ^                   ..  .,             F
  ILEtPETERS                        REP
D  ICO     200     30D    fl0D    SCD                                  f kmUl*v
oAMAI L     1111ES t
r?           CO     O                       BTEXACO-ESSO
-owsodRr r, Ur. A-  Af--
l~~-             .. .. .  b  a-                                    C    A .
ra v.tr          R     r 
BRtAZZAVIL LEog
KI
TRLU   SETO   TEHIA   ASS%:
A   O n        00                                           G 0  00
x    X PETROMLEUM  SETO.TCNIAL.                                   SI
\UAZZAYIIN                                   15 oe<r
*1   5  CAIbINDA t^NGOL,Vl .Ir30*  ~~~~(.Wll1
GULFtZ1          REPBL           OF   ZI REd-
Ri* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
_      -r CI A  R(9-A COLlA3 1
0r icJ e'                                                 G. S...
\ ~~R~7AIU         Aba~.dal. DLd
.*'~~~~+A2Iir  ~~~~~   ~~  ~~  -~~~ ~~o.,irng~20



IBRD 17214
207 2?                                             I         3.           MAY 1913
RC.    CENTRAL  AFRICAN  REPUBLIC                                                           S U-DA.N.
Mobo, ~ ~     ~      b
PE-OPLE'S REP(A
b~~ -,  ,.>-_C - ASIUDAN   5
REPBLI   OF TH   E
C    ~CONGO  ),/                         C                            )NoN                               ' 
(A                    __.d/ b4 \f/X  
FA.boI.~~~~~~~~~B.N.S
X~~~~- I   -   p0o, csrA   in
1730   i                                                2,,?-1BA    IN     
1i   a                                                                                                    DA   { mere       fw 
t;    P-CNWNDU  ^-_ ,;. ftS Z J f~I?CVVrE                       aRUNDI)
+/r%+-- :_  1        NOU i  
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~If
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE                                                                            -;
_SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE    i                                     <                     g
4     ~PROJ ECT                                  >/r                                    p
ZA~I REP - 2  < .  AL / 
iS            i>O.ISF, 6Ab-d-d   A-, 
A;.,_-Kz-           tQGeoPo                ANGOLA             r_r                        L 
JDS\D                M.lP F_ l"z                                                        O   
., .KNZ"      D48O EA.. C,h I C-1 R.                 ''                                   -
--'ECE, ,   A:C- ~~R.-=                                       Z A  M  B I A          ti            |
1 2 .......9!  2,5 3D






