9                                           Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10182
1'v->Dcmi:. N9. IHi *-.. -F:.  1Y .:   -(19.R
! i ; . A I'œ'yl'/   E
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1409-ZR)
Industry and Energy Division
a               South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT$
(As of October 31, 1990)
Currency Unit         -          Zaires (Z's)
US$1.00                          Z Z 882.32
WEIGHTS AMD MEASURES
Metric System
1 cm - centimeter             =      0.39 inches
1 m - meter                   =      3.28 feet
1 m3 - cubic meter                   6.289 bbl = 35.3CP
1 1 - liter                   5      0.26 gallons
1 bbl - barrel                -      159 1 = 5.6CF
1 kg - kilogram               -      2.2 pounds
1 km - kilometer              =      0.62 miles
1 km2 - square kilometer      -      0.39 square miles
i t   ton              =             2,205 pounds
1 kW - kilowatt               =      1,000 wattB
1 MW - megawatt               =      1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh - kilowatthour          =      1,000 watthours
1 GWh - gigawatthour          =      1 million kilowatthours
ABBREVIATIONS
bbl           Barrels
BCF           Billion Cubic Feet
b/d           Barrels per day
BOPD          Barrels of oil per day
CF            Cubic Feet
CTP           Cellule Technique P6troli6re (Petroleum Unit)
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DMG           Direction des Mines et de la G6ologie
GOZ           Government of Zaire
JNOC          Japan National Oil Company
MME           Ministry of Mines and Energy
OGIP          Original gas-in-place
OOIP          Original oil-in-place
PEP           Petroleum exploration promotion
PZ            PetroZaire
STB           Standard tank barrel (at surface conditions)
TD            Total Depth
TSCF          Trillon Standard Cubic Feet (at surface conditions)



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DirectoreCenefal
Opefatons EvaluaWtn
December 11, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE E%ECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Zaire
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project
(Cred.t 1409-ZR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Zaire - Petroleum Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1409-ZR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
| of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1409-ZR
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface         . .........       . . .   *. .. . . . . . . . . .*   . .
Evaluation Summary  . . . . .....    . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ii
PART         PROJECT REVIEWFROM BANK ' S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity..  . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Background . . . . . . .....                        ..  . .1I
Project Preparation, Design and Organization .........  2
Objectives and Description ...  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... . 3
Project Implementation.. . . . . . 4
ProjectResults ... . .... 6
Project Sustainability ... ........ ....7
Bank Performance     .. .. .......... . .
Borrower's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Consulting Services  . .............. ... - 9
Project Documentation and Data ....  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 9
Conclusions and I-ssons Learned  ....  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .   . 9
PART  II     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Design    ....................11
Project Implementation .1.1.............. . --
Disbursement .. .............12
Confirmation of Statistical Data in  Part III .12
Financial Evaluation ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
Disbursements  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
Negative Aspects of the Bank's Performance . . . . . . .  13
CTP's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Effectiveness of the Relationship Between the Bank
and Zaire During the Project ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
Borrower's Conclusions and Lessons Learned . . . . . . .  15
PART  III    STATISTICAL INFORMTION
Related Bank Loans and Credits ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  16
Project Timetable  ....  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  16
Credit Disbursements ... .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  17
Project Implementation ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  18
Project Costs and Financing  ...  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Status of Credit Covenants ...  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  21
Use of Bank ReBources  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .       21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rec.pients only in the performance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICA ASSISTANCE
(CREDIT 1409-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum Sector
Technical Assistance Project in Zaire, for which Credit 1409-ZR in the amount
of SDR 4.2 million (US$4.5 million equivalent) was approved on August 23,
1983. The credit was closed on June 29, 1990, three years behind schedule,
and was almost entirely disbursed but for SDR 18,320 (US$26,525). The last
disbursement was on November 13, 1990.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Industry and Energy Division of
the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department in the Africa Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and by the Zairian Ministry of
Energy (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the data available
in the Project Files, including the President's Report, the Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, Forms 590, correspondence between the Association and
the Borrower, internal memoranda, and on discussions with members of the
project team.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(CREDIT 1409-ZR)
Evaluation Sun2mav
§ackagound
i.       in  Zaire,  domestic  petroleum  resources,  though  not  consumed
domestically, have been important as a source of foreign exchange to the
economy.    Oil reserves in the Coastal Basin, the only area currently
producing oil, are equivalent to about 15 years, production at current
levels. Given the enormous financial resources required and risks involved
in searching for oil, the strategy of the Government of Zaire (GOZ) has been
to encourage international oil companiea with the requisite technical,
financial and management capacity to intensify development and production
efforts in the Coastal Basin and to undertake exploration in other areas.
Zaire's two other basins, the Cuvette Centrale and the Tanganyika Graben, are
much larger than the Coastal Basin, but less attractive for oil exploration
due to their inland location and'difficult geological charactariatice. The
Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project supported the Government's oil
exploration strategy.  It originally arose out of a request from GOZ to
support its financial participation in exploration activities in Zaire. The
Bank'  response was that while it did not normally finance petroleum
exploration per se, it was able to offer technical assistance and training
for petroleum exploration promotion activities. The Project that resulted
was typical of the type of petroleum exploration promotion efforts which had
been found successful in other countries.
Objectives and Deserietion
ii.      The objectives of the project were to:    (i)  strengthen the
capability of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (ME) to supervise exploration
and development of petroleum resources through the establishment of a
Petroleum Unit (CTP) within MB; (ii) help GOZ determine the most economical
way of supplying the country with petroleum products; and (iii) support GOZ's
efforts to attract oil companies to explore for and develop petroleum
resources by providing additional information on the country's sedimentary
basins, through geophysical and geological surveys and studies, and through
review of the legal and fiscal framework of the petroleum sector.   The
project consisted of two main components:   (a) technical assistance and
training and (b) petroleum exploration promotion. A complete description of
the Project's components is given in para. 9.
ImDlementation Bxnerience
iii.     The Project fell behind the originally programmed implementation
schedule and completion was delayed by three years. The major problems were
(a) delays in credit effectiveness despite a speedy start accomplished
through the use of PPF funds; (b) delays in organizing the CTP because of the
difficulty in finding a suitable resident adviser; (c) complications
resulting from an unexpected GOZ decision to grant the Japan National Oil
Company (JNOC) non-exclusive surface exploration rights over a vast expanse
in the northwestern part of the Cuvette Centrale, and lengthy discussions to
find a common ground for use of information gathered by JNOC; and (d) slow
implementation of the geochemical and airmag surveys in the Cuvette Centrale
resulting from CTP's institutional weaknesses.



- 1iii -
iv.      The Project created and built up the technical capability of CTP
through training and produced a geological data base that could be extremely
useful in mounting an exploration promotion campaign. All the geological and
geophysical work that was to have been performed under the Project was
completed except for the gravity survey, which was cancelled because
preliminary work showed it to be unnecessary.   The results of the main
components of the Project are outlined in para. 21.  The impact of the
Project in terms of attracting oil company interest in the promotion effort
and making CTP a viable entity, was considerably below expectations. The
promotional effort has thus far led to the signing of one exploration
agreement (west Ruzizi plain/Lake Tanganyika acreage) but no drilling han yet
taken place.   Although the data produced in the Project's exploration
promotion campaign was sufficient to establish hydrocarbon potential in the
Cuvette, it did not identify any specific prospective areas. Furthermore,
GOZ did not make the model exploration agreement prepared under the project
available to the oil industry and the information it did release suggested
that it would be unwilling to offer financial terms commensurate with the
conoiderable financial risk involved. Concerning CTP, GOZ never granted it
sufficient authority to exercise its role effectively and the training which
the Project was able to achieve was not sufficient to enable local staff to
exercise the intended role of the Unit successfully.
Project Sustainability
V.       The sustainability of the Project in terms of the usefulness of the
Petroleum Unit that was created and the ultimate usefulness of the geological
data assembled will depend on whether or not GOZ eventually grants the
Petroleum Unit the authority and resources to exercise its role effectively
as an independent monitoring and policy-making agency and formulate an
exploration policy for the Cuvette Centrale and Tanganyika Graben Basins,
which takes appropriate account of the costs and risks involved. At present,
the CTP is unable to completely fulfill its intended role due to its lack of
the requisite authority within the framework of the petroleum sector and an
inadequately trained staff.   The Unit is still performing useful work,
however, and since the departure of the resident advisor, the orientation of
its work has shifted more toward basic geological work.
Conclusions and_Lessons Learned
vi.      The Project had limited success in meeting its objectives and
attaining its expected results.   Concerning the institutional component,
there were several factors which made it difficult for CTP to perform its
intended functions fully: (a) the predominance of the national oil company,
P6troZaire (PZ), in the formulation of Government policy in the petroleum
sector, (b) the lack of sufficient authority and independent resources to
make it the government' s primary advisory agency, and to ensure the
sustainability of the work accomplished under the Project and (c) the lack of
sufficient training of CTP staff accomplished under the Project to allow it
to function as an independent unit without reliance on PetroZaire. As an
exploration promotion effort, the disappointing results in the Project to
date were due to the high cost and risk involved in oil exploration in the
areas being promoted relative to the unfavorable financial terms offered by
the Government to the international oil companies.



- iv -
vii.     The main lesson to be learned from the Project is the need to
consider carefully the country context during the design and preparation
phase. In particular it is especially important to ensure, in creating a new
agency such as CTP, that there are no major obstacles constraining the
beneficiary of the Credit from exerciaing its intended function. The Project
under review was identified and prepared at a time when responsibility for
projects in the petroleum sector was centralized in the Bank, without a
specific country focus on the project side. There were certain advantages to
thia centralization in terms of deploying technical expertise, i.e.
geologists, petroleum contract specialints, ete., and learning and applying
the lessons from croso-country experience in, what was at the time, a
relatively new lending area for the Bank.  However,  this organizational
framework also fostered a tendency to develop "generic" product lines and
make them available in various countries.   In the case of petroleum
exploration promotion projects, the Bank had been very successful in helping
a number of countries attract international oil company investment and
providing them with the skills to negotiate fair contracts with these
companies.
viii.    In the country context of Zaire, it seems that a greater familiarity
with Government priorities and decision-making practitces in the petroleum
sector may have enabled the Bank to foresee the operational difficulties of
attempting to make CTP the main advisory agency for the country's pctroleum
exploration activities, independent from the national oil company, Petrozaire
(PZ)t given (a) the importance of PZ in the sector, (b) the traditionally
high stature of PetroZaire's chief executive in government circles, and (c)
the practical need for CTP to rely on PZ offices and staff.  If, as some Bank
staff familiar with Zaire have indicated, operational relationships in the
petroleum sector made it impossible to create a new institution with the
necessary oversight to make the Project effective, the Bank perhaps should
not have tried to implement its standard petroleum exploration promotion
package in Zaire even though it had been successful in some other countries.
Alternatively, foreseeing the potential difficulties, the Bank might have
designed the Project differently or sought greater commitment from the
Government to the goals of the Project and it should have been more insistent
on the need for a clear-cut separation between CTP and PZ in the Project
documents to avoid potential conflicts of interest and constraints to Project
implementation.
ix.      As indicated in para. 26, it aeems that the Government at the key
decision-making level may not have fully understood the Project and did not
ahow  sufficient commitment to it to-effectively grant CTP the recognition,
authority and independence needed to exercise its role as policy advisory and
monitoring unit. This lack of commitment contributed to the delays in the
Project's implementation and diminished the effectiveness of both the
technical assistance and exploration promotion components. At the same time,
the Bank should have been especially careful to emphasize, in the Project
documents, the need to provide CTP with sufficient authority and
independence. Although an internal Bank review of the President's Report on
the Project drew attention to some of the institutional aspects of the
Project that ultimately constrained the achievement of the Project's
objectives, it does not appear that these concerns were sufficiently
reflected in the final preparation of the Project (para. 18).



a~TsafPL-EIZON REPORT
REPUBIC OF AIRE
PETROLEUM  SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE-CEDIT 1409-ZR)
PART I. RJERWJ!EW  RM  RAK'S PERSPECTIVE
Projiect IdeLititz
B-a-nle : Petroleum Sector Technical Asaistance Credit No. Credit 1409-ZR
V_P  nit_:  Africa Regional Office         Se2tor   : Energy
Countrz : Zaire                            Subseetor:  Petroleum
Baikihrouncj
1.   Zaire has an extremely large energy reaource base, including fuelwood,
hydropower and petroleum. Nevertheless, Zaire's per capita consumption of
petroleum products is only about 26 liters, compared with an average of 140
liters for all Sub-Saharan countries, ranking it fifteenth out ox about 25
sub-Saharan  African  countries  for  which  comparable  information  ia
available l/.   Zaire's oil production is nearly double its consumption.
However it imports all the oil required to meet domestic demand and exports
all the oil it produces because the local crude from offshore fields is not
suitable for the Moanda refinery, which was designed prior to the first oil
discovery.
2.   There are three sedimentary basins in Zaire.  They are, from west to
east, the Coastal Basin of approximately 6000 kin2, where most exploratory work
and all petroleum production thus far has taken place, the enormous Central
Basin, or "Cuvette Centrale" which covers about 810,000 km2 and the West
Branch of the East Africa Rift System or "Tanganyika Graben," which occupies
some 55,000km2.   All three basins have prospects for liquid or gaseous
hydrocarbons.   Inconclusive exploration efforts took place in the 1920s,
including the drilling of seven shallow wells, around Lake Mobutu (ex-Albert)
on the Uganda shore, where there were reports of oil and gas shows.  In
Zaire, exploration began in the early 1950s with reconnaissance geology in
the Kisangani (then Stanleyville) area where there were outcroppings of
bituminous shales. Subsequently, two medium-depth wells (Dekese-I and Samba-
1) were drilled, but both turned out to be dry. To date, only four wells
have been drilled in this enormous intracontinental sedimentary basin, and
all have been dry.   Nevertheless,  the geological survey and drilling
activities have provided useful geologic information for further exploration
work.   Furthermore, the current drilling density of 1 well/200,000 km2
represents an insignificant level of exploration.
3.   In 1959, modern petroleum exploration began seriously in the onshore
part of the Coastal Basin, and a first well (Lindu-1) encountered encouraging
oil and gas shows in 1963.  Subsequent drilling in the basin led to an
offshore commercial discovery in 1969 which was put onstream in 1975, after
additional discoveries had justified investment in the necessary production
and export facilities.   Since the GCO discovery, there have been further
discoveries of five offshore and six onshore fields which are currently under
production.  Total cumulative production from all fields combined (as of
January 1, 1989), is 119.3 million bbl and the estimate of remaining reserves
is 75.7 million bbl. Remaining reserves are equivalent to about 15 years
production at current levels.   Table 1 shows key data for offshore and
offshore fields.
1/  Zaire Petrolegm Sector Memorandum, May 1989.



- 2-
PetmtroleM Prougtnion IZatre
Offhbore Fields
Daly Barrals
Peak     Pck       Ava.      CumulProd. at
Field          Density  Prod.    Prod.       Phd.     In Milion
(discovery date)  (D      (bbal    Dae         Mt 
1. GM (1969)     290      7,330    2/76        122        6.3
2.  bibalo (1973)  30's   35,900   11/76       10,743     85.2
3. Motoba (1976)  38*     3,130     8/86       5,048      1.5
4. Mwanbo (1979)  30'     1,720     4/80        124       .6
5. LAbwa (1981)  33                   - ^
6. Lukal (1982)  35'      8,040     4/85       1,976      6.9
Onshore Iields
7. Liawends (1971)  31'   3,060     2186       1,799      3.5
8. KlWkul (1972)  31*     4,850     9/85       2,754      7.3
9. Muanda (1972)  31'      930     8/85         409       .7
10. B MibaleTsbclendo
(1978/84)   349  4,400  12/86     5,728       6.4
11. Maskelkes (1983) 316  770  1/86  427       .9
12. KFiu (1983)  31*        70     5/85         20         -
TOTAL                                       29,150     119.3
1/ Succesfis  gasfift.
2/ As of December31, 1988 accordilo Oil & Gas Joura.
4   At the time of Project identification, GOZ and the Bank realized that
the Coaetal Basin, due to its small size (35 km long), had only limited
potential for further production. Thus, the emphasis of the Project was put
on shifting the focus of the exploration effort to other basins which,
although they had less favorable geological characteristics, were much
larger. The strategy for launching this new exploration effort focussed on
organizing a structured promotion campaign to attract major oil companies
capable of making the risky exploration investment required.
Proiect PreRaration. Design and Organization
5.  Project preparation began with the request from GOZ that the Bank
finance exploration activities in Zaire. The Bank responded to this request
by informing GOZ that while it did not normally engage in the financing of
exploration activities per se, it was able to offer technical assistance and
training for petroleum export promotion.  The design of the Project then
became that of a typical exploration promotion package of a type which had
been successful in other countries. In most cases, the identification of the
appropriate  executing  agency  for  such  a  project  was  reasonably
straightforward. In the case of Zaire, however, there was a strong national
oil company PetroZaire (PZ), and there was no overall monitoring entity which
would be the appropriate beneficiary of the Credit. Contract negotiations
with foreign oil companies operating in Zaire were handled on an ad hoc basis
by political figures without adequate technical support.  To remedy this
situation, the Project called for the creation of the Cellule Technique
P6troli&re (CTP), a centralized technical petroleum unit within the Ministry
of Mines and Energy (MME).



-3-
6.   During the preparation and design of the Project, an internal Bank
review of the draft President's Report noted concern in some parts of the
Bank about the viability of the proposed CTP, considering the lack of clear
delineation of institutional relationships, especially the role of
PetroZaire. There was also concern about recruiting and paying for qualified
staff of the CTP and the mechanism for transferring the technical know-how of
the forei'n advisors supplied under the Project.  The Project files indicate
preparation of a draft memo responding to some of theae concerns, but there
seems to be no final copy  of the memo on file and the final veraion of the
President's Report does not seem to deal with theae points adequately. This
report did, however, note the risk that the new unit might not perform as
adequately as expected,  though  for reasons other than those  actually
encountered.
Objecties a&nd Descrntsion
7.   The objectives of the project were to:  (i) atrengthen the capability
of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MNE) to supervise exploration and
development of petroleum resources through the establiahment of a Petroleum
Unit (CTP) within MME; (ii) help GOZ determine the most economical way of
supplying the country with petroleum products; and (iii) support GOZ's
efforts to attract oil companies to explore for and develop petroleum
resources by providing additional information on the country's sedimentary
basins, through geophysical and geological surveys and studies, and a
thorough review of the legal and fiscal framework of the petroleum sector.
8.   There were two basic components to the Project:  technical assistance
and training for the CTP and petroleum exploration promotion.   These
components consisted of the following specific items:
(a) petroleum exploration consultants to assist the CTP (Petroleum Technical
Unit) in:
(i)    monitoring the activities of the operating oil companies;
(ii)    preparing development/production strategy reports;
(iii)    preparing promotion reports on the Tanganyika Graben (East
Africa Rift Western Branch) and on the Central Basin (Cuvette)
for sale to interested companies; and
(iv)    supervising the Coastal Basin reserves study as well as the
geophysical and geochemical work in the prospective areas;
(b)  resident adviser to (i) report to the Minister of Mines and Energy on
matters concerning strategy, policy planning of operations in the sector
as well as on the technical and economic aspects of negotiations with
oil companiino, and, (ii) liaise with the Petroleum Unit head concerning
technical matters and the unit work program.
(a) a specialist in petroleum exploration contract negotiations;
(b) petroleum experts to carry out a study of the reserves of the
Coastal Basin;
(c) purchase of equipment and materials for the CTP;
(d) training about 10 MME staff in petroleum techniques; and
(e) audit of the project accounts.



-4-
Proiect Imnlementatlog
9.   Tredit  Efa    's  and Prolect Start-Un.  The Credit, identified in
Auguat 1982, was neg%L....ted in Washington in June 1983 and approved on August
23, 1983. The signing of the Credit took place two months later, October 26,
1983 and it became effective on March 6, 1984.   The delay of about four
months was shorter than that of most projects in Zaire and it was due
essentially to administrative constraints in complying with effectiveneas
requirements.
10.  Imoementa_tionS Shedule.  Although the Project was initially vchvduled
for completion by December 31, 1986, there were three one-year extensions
resulting in an actual closing date of June 29, 1990.  The extensions were
necessary because several important activities were still pending as of the
original closing date.   Neither the preparation  (airmag interpretation,
geochemical studles, etc.) for the promotion of the Central Basin (Cuvette)
nor the evaluation of the Coastal Basin reserves were completed.   "L. .o,
negotiations for an exploration agreement with interested oil companies
concerning the Lake Mobutu-Semliki acreage were just starting. Finally, the
strengthening of the CTP was far behind the level envisaged in the initial
program. The main reasons for the delays were:
(a) modera'ce credit effectiveness delay despite a speedy start
accomplished through the use of PPF funds;
(b) delays in organizing the CTP because of the difficulty in finding
a qualified resident adviser;
(c) unexpected complications resulting from an option contract under
which the Japan National Oil Company (JNOC) conducted surface
exploration over a vast expanae in the northwestern part of the
Central Basin from 1982 to 1986, and lengthy discussions to find a
common ground for use of information gathered by JNOC; and
(d) the slow implementation of the geochemical and airmag surveyr '.n the
Central Basin resulting from the awkward position of CTP    the
petroleum sector's institutional framework.
11.  Critical Variances in Proiect Implementation.  There were two factors
mainly responsible for the considerable delays in project implementation.
First, there was an institutional framework' in which the CTP was reporting to
the MYE for all matters regarding the implementation of the Project while
depending on PZ for its financial, organization and every day support. This
set-up -- a dual hierarchy and overlapping responsibilities --- complicated
the task of the petroleum unit and ultimately proved unworkable. It appears
that GOZ may not have fully grasped the need for a clear separation between
the policymaking and regulatory role of the Ministry (with the technical
support of the CTP) and the role of its national oil company. Moreover, CTP
lacked the political clout and technical expertise and funding to assert its
independence; but it seems that the Bank reluctantly accepted this awkward
situation.
12. As noted in para. 28, there were problems in recruiting and retaining
appropriate consultants for the Project. A permanent resident adviser dil
not come on board until a year and a half into the Project.  There were
delays in the organization of the CTP and the preparation of acreage
promotions and training programs. These delays resulted in lost opportunities
for conducting surveys and generating oil company interest as well as some
unnecessary expenses.
13. The administrative relationship between CTP and PZ inhibited CTPs
performance because:



-5-
(a) Most CTP staff were seconded from PZ and unwilling to give up their
status as PZ staff in favor of an entity with an uncertain future.
(b) Salaries were much higher in PetroZaire than in the Ministry, and
only in 1990 was the CTP given authority to offer reasonable
salaries independently from PZ.
(c) CTP wan seldom able to gain access to the political authority that
it needed to gain recognition and respect as an independent entity.
14.  Procurement.   The Implementing Agency, CTP,   followed   World Bank
guidelines closely during all phases of the Project. There were no major
problems with procurement and the evaluation of bids for goods and services
under the Project was thorough.
15.  Project Cost.  Part III, Table 5A, summarizes project costs in SDRs.
The estimated Project cost at appraisal was SDR 4.9 million, including the
refinancing of a PPF advance of SDR 560,000. During Credit negotiations, the
Zairian delegation requested that at least two experts (a geologist and a
geophysicist) be employed full-time in the Petroleum Unit for a period of two
years each, to provide continuity in the technical work of the Unit and in
the on-the-job training. As a result, the cost of consultants and experts
increased from the appraisal estimate of SDR 1.3 million to SDR 1.6 million
and the project cost included in the President's Report is US$5.25 million.
However, the final cost of the project of SDR 4.18 million was lower than the
estimates mainly because the actual PPF refinancing was only SDR 171,000.
16. Disbursements. The disbursement of the Credit was slow. Section 3 of
Part III shows estimated and actual disbursements. On the original Closing
Date (June 30, 1987) only about half of the Credit was disbursed.   Slow
disbursements resulted from some of the delays in Project implementation
referred to in para. 11, the late nomination of an accountant and frequent
disagreements over invoices. The final disbursements on the Credit were made
on November 13, 1990, about four months after the final Closing Date. The
remaining balance of US$26,525 was canceled on November 13, 1990 after 99.6%
of the Credit had been disbursed.
17.  Proiect ,Risk Assessment.    The President's Report on the Project
identified  several  risks  to  successful  Project  implementation  and
performance. Concerning the creation of the new CTP, the Report identified
the risk that the new structure would not perform as expected, due to either
(i) ineffective use of the assistance provided as well as the studies and
reports prepared, or (ii)  excessive dependence on foreign advisors.  To
minimize this risk, the Project called for the appointment of a Resident
Advisor to the Minister who would assist in coordinating the findings and
conclusions of the Unit as well ae make recommendations for follow-up
actions, alternative policies and strategies.    Furthermore, the Project
provided a training component, which, along with Bank supervision of the
staffing  progress, would enable  the  Unit  to  eventually  decrease  its
dependence on foreign advisors. CTP did not perform as expected, but not so
much for the reasons stated as because of the unfavorable institutional
framework and consequent constraints on staff recruitment and retention.
18.   The Project did not emphasize sufficientll the importance of CTP's
independence. For example, Section 3.05 of the Credit Agreement states that
"...For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that its
departments and agencies, as well as entities owned or controlled by it, in
particular PetroZaire, fully cooperate with and provide all necessary
assistance (including, but not limited to, the provision of all relevant
information and personnel) to both the Petroleum Unit referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement and the consultants and experts referred to in Section
3.02 and Schedule 4 of this Agreement." This section did not alleviate the
awkward dependent relationship betweeu the new entity CTP and PZ which led to
some of the institutional problems under the Project.



-6-
19. Concerning the geophyeical surveys under the Project, the main risk
identified in the President's Report was that the results might not be
sufficiently attractive to encourage oil companies to take the necessary
investment risk. The President's Report concluded that even if the results
of the surveys did not induce strong interest by foreign oil companies in the
areas surveyed, it would help GOZ planners and policymakers in assessing the
oil resource limitations facing the country. Based on the Project outcome,
the increase in data availability on the Cuvette was a necessary step toward
increasing the limited interest of the oil companies but was by itself
insufficient given Government's unwillingness to offer financial incentives
compatible with the high risk involved in the survey areas. In spite of the
advice it was getting from the negotiations advisor financed under the
project and from the Bank, government insisted that PZ be given a 20 percent
interest in any new exploration venture without any corresponding obligation
to contribute to the financing unless and until a commercial diecovery is
made. This provision seemed particularly unreasonable considering the
production-sharing nature of the model agreement and the high risk involved
in the prospective areas.
Proiect Results
20. The Project improved the technical capability of CTP through training
and produced a useful geological data base for the government to mount an
exploration promotion campaign. All the work under the Project was completed
except for the gravity survey, which was cancelled because it proved to be
unnecessary. The impact of the Project in terms of attracting oil company
interest in the promotion effort and making CTP a viable entity, was
considerably below expectations. The promotional effort led to the signing
of one exploration agreement (west Ruzizi plain/Lake Tanganyika acreage) but
so far no drilling has taken place.   Although the data produced in the
Project's exploration promotion campaign was sufficient to establish
hydrocarbon potential it was not adequate to define the most favorable areas
with any accuracy.   Furthermore, GOZ did not make the model agreement
available to the oil industry and, in any case, gave no indication that it
would offer financial terms commensurate with the considerable financial risk
involved. Concerning CTP, GOZ failed to grant it the authority to exercise
its role effectively and the training which the Project was able to achieve
was not sufficient to enable local staff to exercise the intended role of the
Unit effectively.
21. The results of the main Project components are outlined briefly below.
(a) Reqional Airmaq Survey.   This was the first regional petroleum
project component in the Bank -- a joint airmag survey with Uganda,
Kenya and Tanzania covering elongated and narrow prospective basins
straddled by borders. The survey measured the depth to oil basement
and identified possible structural formations, information needed
to attract oil companies to explore these remote areas.
(b) Central -Basin (Cuvette) Airmag Survey.   This survey identified
possible structural complications and ascertained depth to oil
basement in order to attract groups of oil companies to take
prospective acreage in this difficult geological terrain.
(c) Geochemical Studies - These studies were originally designed to
collect and process data from wells in the Coastal Basin, from the
four wells drilled in the Cuvette and also from exposed rocks on the
rim of the Cuvette and of the Tanganyika Graben. Their scope was
modified periodically during the Project's implementation to take
account of exploratory findings.   The results of these studies,
combined with favorable results from zhe airmag surveys enhanced the
prospects for finding oil in the Cuvette.



-7-
(d) Petr leu  Exnloration Promotion Consultant.  The Project provided
consultant services to help organize the CTP, prepare promotion
reports and organize promotional meetings for the Tanganyika Graben
and for the Cuvette. Although the consultant performed well and
oil company interest was high in terms of attendance at the
promotion seminars and sale of exploration promotion packages, the
results, in terms of contracts signed, were disappointing.
(e) Coastal B asin Repeves Studv. The purpose of this component was to
help thie GOZ develop an overall petroleum development strategy in
the basin and to help support preliminary findings that the Coastal
reserves were limited and, therefore, that the emphasis of the
petroleum exploration should shift to other prospective basins such
as the Tanganyika Graben and the Cuvette, where investments carry
a much greater risk.   The results of this  survey confirmed
preliminary indications concerning available reserves in the Basin.
(f) Ne oiation  Canabilitv.       The  Project  provided  experienced
negotiators to help GOZ negotiate exploration contracts, renegotiate
existing production contracts and train Zairian counterparts in
petroleum negotiations.  So far one contract has been negotiated
with the Petrofina/Amoco Group 2/ for acreage in the Tanganyika
Graben, and the two production agreements in the Coastal Basin were
renewed.
(g) Audit of Project Accounts.  A well-known audit firm prepared audit
reports on the Project's accounts including the special account
specifically opened to receive proceeds from the sale of reports or
airmag data. The auditor found the accounts to be in order.
(h) Training. Staff members of CTP received training from consultants
in the areas of petroleum exploration, engineering, negotiations and
the auditing of accounts.   Also, the Project offered short courses
and seminars to keep technical personnel abreast of all the latest
developments in their area of expertise.   However, the Project was
not able to train CTP staff sufficiently to fulfill all intended CTP
functions following the departure of the advisor.
Prolect Sustainability
22. The sustainability of the Project results in terms of the usefulness of
the Petroleum Unit created and the geological date assembled will depend on
whether or not GOZ eventually grants the Petroleum Unit the authority to
exercise its role effectively as an independent monitoring and policy-making
agency and formulates and exploration policy for the Cuvette and Tanganyika
Graben Basins which is commensurate with the risk involved. At this point it
appears that the functioning of the Petroleum Unit is originally conceived is
unlikely given (a) the political context of the petroleum industry in Zaire
and (b) the fact that the CTP has shifted its focus more toward doing
geological work as opposed to the advisory, managerial and monitoring
functions originally envisaged.
2/    Amoco has recently (late October 1990)  left the association and
Petrofina the operator is now the sole rights holder.



- a -
Bank Performance
23. The Bank, in helping prepare the Project, seems to have tried adapting
a standard package of technical assistance to the petroleum sector, which had
been successful in a number of countries, onto a fledgling host institution
in Zaire which had difficulties in fulfilling its intended role due to
administrative and institutional constraints. Experience elsewhere had
suggested that creation of an independent governmental petroleum unit as the
focal point of exploration work and monitoring of the petroleum sector was a
logical step towards implementing an   exploration promotion sti tegy,
consolidating a data base for promoting exploration by international oil
companies and minimizing reliance on the national oil company, which could
lead to conflicts of interest. However, even at the Project's inception,
the powerful position of Zaire's national oil company in the petroleum
sector, in terms of its expertise and its political influence was apparent as
a major constraint to the development of a new institution.
24. Given the reality of the institutional relationships in Zaire's
petroleum sector, the Bank may have been unrealistic in trying to replicate
its successful "petroleum exploration promotion" (PEP) package in Zaire. The
dependence of CTP on PetroZaire inhibited its ability to fulfill some of the
Project's objectives.  In Project preparation, the Bank should have given
more consideration to the country context of the Project in terms of the
difficult institutional setting. Consequently the Bank either should have
designed the Project in a different way, sought a greater commitment from the
Government to the Project's institutional development goals, including
granting the CTP the authority and the independent resources it needed, or
delayed the Project until the Government was prepared to do so.  Despite
concerns raised within the Bank during the preparation of the Project,
outlined in para. 19, the Bank did not deal effectively with the potential
institutional difficulties and this led to numerous difficulties in the
Project's implementation.
25. The Bank supervised the project about twice a year, a level of
supervision which seems adequate give the size and nature of the Project.
During the supervision process, the Bank ultimately was able to help CTP
disengage from dependence on PZ but only in the final stages of the Project
when it was too late to have a significant effect on the Project's outcome.
Borrower' s Performance
26. There were several indications during the Project's implementation phase
that the Government either did not sufficiently understand the Project or did
not have a very strong commitment to it: (a) CTP's lack of sufficient
independent resources, recognition and authority to effectively exercise its
policy advisory and monitoring roles; (b) granting JNOC exploration tights
over substantial acreage shortly after Credit effectiveness, thus removing a
large portion of the Project area from the exploration promotion component of
the project and (c) failure to make a model exploration agreement available
to the petroleum industry and grant exploration terms commensurate with the
financial risk involved in high risk exploration areas. This apparent lack
of  government  commitment  contributed  to  delays  in  the  Project's
implementation and diminished the effectiveness of both the technical
assistance and the exploration promotion components of the Project.
27. The beneficiary of the Credit, CTP, performed as well as could have been
expected  given  the  difficult  institutional  setting.    The  ambiguous
relationship with PZ led to morale problems for staff recruited from PZ and
created a situation for potential conflicts of interest and made independent
operation difficult. However, CTP, during the implementation of the Project,
took procurement guidelines under the Project seriously and followed them
carefully. Once an accountant was on board, though very late in the project
cycle, the management of the accounts improved considerably.



-9-
Consulting Services
28. The consulting services under the Credit varied in terms of their
quality.   There was an initial delay of about five months in providing a
resident advisor who was to remain on a temporary basis. This consultant
advisor did not perform the requisite duties to the satisfaction of the CTP.
A replacement advisor, independent of the consultant firm that had provided
the previous adviaor, came on board about a year and a half into the
implementation period of the Project.  This advisor performed well, although
his late appointment made it difficult to achieve all of the Project's
objectives, particularly in training the staff of CTP. Contractors for the
airmag surveys, seismic reprocessing and rock maturity studies all performed
good quality work.
ProIct Documentation and Data
29. Most of the information relevant to the preparation of this PCR was
available in the files. However, in Table S of Part III the PCR could only
estimate the total local costs of the project and did not have sufficient
information to disaggregate these costs among the various categories of
expenditures.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
30. In Zaire, domestic petroleum resources, though not suitable for the
domestic refinery, have been important as a source of foreign exchancge to the
economy.     Oil reserves in the Coastal Basin, the only area currently
producing oil, are equivalent to about 15 years production at current levels.
Although surveys conducted under the Project for the other basins (the
cuvette and the Tanganyika Graben) indicate petroleum prospects, there will
be a much greater investment risk attached to the exploration work due to the
inaccessibility and difficult geological characteristics of the area. Zaire
does not have the financial resources to mount its own exploration effort and
in order to encourage oil companies to explore for oil in these areas, GOZ
will need to treat exploration activities in the more risky areas differently
than those in the known Coastal Basin by offering more attractive financial
terms.   Government's unwillingness to offer investment terms which take
account of the larger size of the investment required to find oil in the more
difficult geological terrain along with greater financial risk due were a
major deterrent to attracting greater international oil company interest in
exploring the Cuvette and the Graben basins.
31. The purpose of the Project was to help Zaire attract oil company
interest by strengthening the MME in terms of its ability to gather the
necessary geological data on the various basins, organize it into an
exploration promotion package which would spark oil company interost in
exploration investment and generally play the major Government role in the
petroleum sector.  Under the Project, this strengthening of the Ministry
required the creation of a Petroleum Unit, CTP, which was to be the focal
point of activity under the Project, was to serve as a central clearinghouse
for geological information, conduct exploration promotion activities and
advise the Government on policymaking in the petroleum sector and in the
negotiation of contracts with foreign oil companies. However, there were
several factors which have made it difficult for CTP to perform these
functions completely: (a) the pre-eminence of the national oil company, PZ,
in Government decision-making on petroleum sector issues, (b) the lack of
sufficient authority and independent resources granted CTP by the Governrent
to make it an important advisory agency and ensure the sustainability of the
work accomplished under the Project and (c) the lack of sufficient training
of CTP staff accomplished under the Project to build up its capability to
function as an independent unit without reliance on PetroZaire.



- 10 -
32. An important lesion learned from this Project is the need to carefully
consider the country context of a project in its design and preparation
phase. The Project was conceived at a time when projects in the petroleum
area were centralized in the Bank, outside a specific regional or country
context. There were certain advantages to this centralization in terms of
deploying  technical  expertise,  i.e.  geologists,  petroleum  contract
specialists, etc., and the lessons to be learned from cross-country
experience in what was at the time, a relatively new lending area for the
Bank.  However, this organizational framework also fostered a tendency to
develop "generic" product lines and then implement them in various countries.
In the case of petroleum exploration promotion and technical assistance, the
Bank had been very successful in helping countries attract international oil
company investment and providing them with the skills to negotiate fair
contracts with these companies.
33. In preparing a PEP in Zaire, there should have been a greater
sensitivity to Government's approach to petroleum sector issues in the
Project's design; i.e. the Bank should have foreseen the operational
difficulties in making CTP the main advisory agency for petroleum
exploration, given the importance of PZ in the sector, and the potential
conflicts of interest and administrative difficulties in CTP'3 reliance on
PZ's offices and staff  if, as some Bank staff familiar with Zaire have
indicated, operational relationships in petroleum sector made it impossible
to create a new institution with the independence needed for the Project to
work as intended, the Bank perhaps should not have tried to implement its
standard petroleum exploration promotion package in Zaire even though it had
been successful in some other countries. Alternatively, foreseeing potential
difficulties, the Bank should have sought a greater commitment from the
Government to the goals of the Project and been more insistent on the need
for a clear-cut separation between CTP and PZ in the Project documents to
avoid  potential  conflicts  of  interest  and  constraints  to  Project
implementation.



- 11 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BOR_OWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Desian
34. Zaire had requested the World Bank to grant it an IDA Credit to assist
it in financing petroleum exploration in unexploited areas. However, the
Bank's response was that it could provide financing only for promotion and
training, in the form of technical assistance for the petroleum sector.
35. The Zairian Government believed that the World Bank's acceptance meant
that it was willing to grant financing to PZ (P&troZaire), the national
petroleum company that had just established (in 1982) its own Petroleum
Studies Center (CZP) and which fulfilled almost the same purpose as CTP (the
Petroleum Unit).
36. It should be noted that IDA regarded the establishment of CTP as a
prerequisite for granting the Credit. The Government had considered that CEP
should be merged with CTP and that -- for financial reasons -- CTP should
operate within PZ. At the outset, IDA had minimized the importance to the
Project of this decision. Consequently, PZ recruited all the CTP staff that
had signed contracts for unspecified periods with the agency.
37. An examination of this problem of project design shows that the
arguments raised by the Bank with regard to PZ were not applied to the
similar Credits granted to SNEL (the National Electric Power Company) and
REGIDESO (the National Water Company). The latter are monopolies, and the
Bank did not object to providing them with financing. However, P2 was a
powerful national enterprise in competition with multinational companies
operating in Zaire, and providing it with financing was not consistent with
World Bank policy in 1982 regarding countries like Zaire.
38.      It was therefore foreseeable that problems would arise when CTP
operated alongside PZ and CEP, and these problems were destined to make it
clear that, in the petroleum sector, PZ had the dual role of both judge and
judged.  The merger of CEP and CTP -- to the profit of CTP -- further
complicated the problem, placing CTP under the authority of PetroZaireIs CEO,
with the Secretary General for Energy acting as project manager, while the
Minister himself was authorized to give direct orders to the CTP Chief,
without reference to PdtroZaire's CEO or the Secretary General for Energy.
Project Implementation
39.  -   Project identification:  June 1982 (Credit 1409-ZR)
-   Negotiations:  June 1983, in Washington, D.C.
-   Approval:  August 23, 1983
-   Signature:  October 26, 1983
-   Effectiveness:  March 6, 1987
-   Delay:  four months
-   Actual completion date:  June 29, 1990
-   Overrun: three years and six months
40. Several explanations have been advanced to justify the delayed
completion of the Project financed by Credit 1409-ZR (Petroleum Sector
Technical Assistance). Some of the activities that were undertaken had not
been completed, and thus required extensions beyond the original completion
date (i.e. December 31, 1986).
41. Because of the dual structure and the overlapping of responsibilities
(CTP was responsible to the Ministry for project implementation, and to PZ as
regards financial, organizational and day-to-day support), much time and
effort had to be devoted to explaining CTP's role as consultant to the
Government on petroleum policy (i.e. regulation and guidance) and PE'B role
as a petroleum company that was required to obey rather than dictate



- 12 -
government policy. This position was properly understood only in 1989, when
CTP was removed from PS and attached to the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
42.  Currently, CTP forms part of CNE (the National Energy Commission), which
is directly responsible to the Secretary General for Energy, as Permanent
Secretary, with the Minister of Energy as Chairman, and a long time appears
to have been taken in arriving at the formula contained in the Credit
Agreement and called for by the Bank; i.e. that CTP should operate as part of
the Secretariat General for Energy (see section 3(03)(a) of Credi.t
Agreement).
43. CTP vacated PZ'n premises on January 29, 1991, and is currently
accommodated on the third level of the SNEL building, thus ensuring its
independence from PZ. In 1991, CTP has been officially included in the budget
with an allocation of Z 1.7 billion to cover operating, personnel and capital
costs. Of the 29 specialists now in CTP, only one is assigned from PZ. The
other specialists having contracts with PZ for unspecified periods have been
reincorporated into that agency's Studies Directorate.
Project Cost
44. -    Estimate:  US$4.9 million
-    PPF advance:  US$600,000
-    Reduced to:  US$4 million
-    Thirty additional staff-months, at Zaire's request (two years of
geological and geophysical assistance): US$500,000
-    Total cost:  US$4.5 millioni
Disbursement
45. -    Disbursement of Credit 1409-ZR was slow.
-    As of the original closing date (December 31, 1986), only
half the proceeds had been disbursed.
The Bank did not provide any payment in response to withdrawal application
No. 191, relating to the Zairian contribution to CONOCO's appraisal of the
potential of the Caastal Basin.  This accounts for the amount canceled on
November 13, 1990.
Confirmation of Statistical Data in Part III
46. The statistical data in Part III of the Project Completion Report
(Credit 1409-ZR) have been verified and confirmed by CTP's accounting
services. However, an explanation should be provided for the SDR 18,319.56
(US$26,525.07) left undisbursed after the final payment and canceled on
November  13,  1990.    On  September  27,  1990,  IDA returned  withdrawal
application No. 186 to CTP.  The amount involved (US$24,500) was canceled,
since at that time it was no longer possible to reallocate it to any other
item.



- 13 
Financial Evaluation
47.
Disbursements._by Category (._.._
CateLo_ yItem 1            X       timate       Actuat    %    Difference
XI.      Consultants and    23.09   970,000  1,648,416.83  39.42   -678,416.83
Experts      .___..________
it.      Geophysical and    26.19  1,100,000  2,041,223.77  48.81   -941,223.77
Gravity Surveys
III.     Audit             0.95   40,000        78,775.66   1.88   38,775.66
IV.      Training          4.04   170,000      145,724.33   3.48   24,275.67
V.       Equipment and     4.04   170,000       96,802.51   2.31   73,197.49
Moateriats
VI.      Refunding of PPF    13.36   560,000   170,535.69   4.1    389,464.31
Vil.     _Unallocated     28.33  1,190,000         -       '     1,190,000.00
TOTAL          100   4,200,000     4,181,680. 4   100    18,319.56
An examination of the various categories of disbursement shows that IDA
favored certain items while not giving the necessary attention to others,
even though these were important to the country.
48. The services of consultants and experts alone absorbed 39.42% of
disbursements, although, when the project was originally negotiated, they
were intended to receive 23.09%. The same applies to the auditing of the
credit accounts. Originally planined to total 0.95% of the financing, they
actually absorbed 1.88%. The geophysical and gravity surveys were planned to
take up 26.19% of the Credit, but in fact absorbed 48.81%, as a result of the
efforts  devoted  to  petroleum  promotion  in  unexplored  areas.    The
repercussions were to be felt in CTP, since only exploration activities were
developed. Training and equipment were neglected activities. It was planned
to devote 4.04% of the Credit to the training of Zairian personnel, but this
received only 3.48%. Equipping CTP was planned to account for 4.04%, but in
fact amounted to only 2.31%.
Negative Aspects of the Bank's Performance
49. Regardless of any conclusions drawn regarding the impact of consulting
services on the outcome of the Project, the percentage of financing allocated
to them inevitably rendered IDA's activities in the sector inefficient.
Moreover, the consultants and experts were all expatriates, and the entire
process was implemented as if IDA had no idea of the expertise that was
available locally.
50. In future, particular attention should be given to Zairian consultants
(possibly approved by IDA), since these are less expensive than expatriates
and can prove more efficient, since they are able to remain in their
positions even after a Credit is no longer effective. Expatriates should be
used only in fields where local expertise is lacking.
51. IDA showed flexibility in reassigning unallocated financing to
consulting services, but was more intransigent over the allocation of



- 14 -
financing to the training of local personnel or the purchase of equipment.
This explains for the diocrepancies between planned and actual performance.
52. IDA did not take into account the existence of P6troZaire'l CEP, which
had the same powers that were to be asaigned to CTP.   CEP had been
established long before the Credit was planned in 1982. The Bank wished to
implement the sort of standard program which had perhaps been successful
elsewhere, but which encountered difficulties in Zaire. CTP did not have the
necessary local resources to enable it to develop independently from PZ. The
Bank should have found some means of providing it with real autonomy, by
providing special financial asaistance.
53. With time, the Zairian Government realized that the Bank wanted CTP's
role to be different from that of PZ, but the confusion of roles delayed
implementation and the achievement of the Project's objectives.
CTPIS Performance
54. It is clear from an examination of the amount of financing allocated to
consultants and geological and geophysical surveys, and the small amounts
devoted to training and equipment, together with the time overruns in
implementation, that CTP was established and operates independently of PZ,
being responsible to the Secretariat General for Energy and currently
occupying its own premises, which are separate from those of PZ.
55. It undertook the promotion of the Tanganyika Graben and the Central
Basin, prepared the study of Coastal Basin reserves, acquired a PC for
monitoring production in the Coastal Basin (under a contract with GCA), and
appraised potential output from the Coastal Basin with the American company
CONOCO, even though the Bank refused to honor the application for payment
relating to the Zairian contribution to this operation. At the advice of the
Bank, CTP adopted a formula for this appraisal requiring payment of a fee for
access to the output data, and also requiring the petroleum companies
executing the study to provide financing and to cooperate with Zairian
specialists. This was an effective formula in the case of the Coastal Basin.
CONOCO, OXY and AGIP paid the access fee.
56. Because of the amount of the Credit devoted to geological and
geophysical surveys, and the active cooperation of CTP personnel with the
consultant and contractor (financed by the Credit), great efforts were
devoted to exploration, and this suggests that CTP departed from its original
role and did not develop any activities other than exploration.
57. A GCA specialist spent one year in CTP (up to June 24, 1990) in order
to establish a computerized system for monitoring petroleum production and
storage. CTP has established statistics on the production, import,
transportation and distribution of petroleum products, and is now in a
position to calculate the price structure for such products, an operation
previously performed by the petroleum industry itself and the Ministry of
Finance.   CTP monitors petroleum product production and distribution in
Kinshasa and the interior, and performs a chairmanship role in close
cooperation with PZ, SEP-ZAIRE and the ministries concerned with hydrocarbon
issues.
58. CTP may have been somewhat late in understanding its role, but its
organization is now such that all the objectives set by the Bank have been
partially achieved. It is now necessary for the Bank to provide a further
Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Credit to enable CTP to become truly
autonomouo -- both financially and organizationally -- and to finalize the
vast program that is now in process of implementation.



- 15 -
59. The establiahment of a consortium conaLsting of more than 10
multinational petroleum companies will enable CTP to develop selected blocks
in the Central Basin for pilot exploration operations (i.e. seismic and
gravity surveys and drilling). In addition, the search for petroleum in the
Cuvette could lead to a very interesting program that CTP has succeeded in
having included in the 1991 capital budget and the 1991-95 PIP (Priority
Investment Program).   This program la supported by neighboring countries
(Congo, Uganda and Tanzania), which are also interested in the outcome of the
study, as are certain international companies specializing in petroleum
studies or research (i.e. ECL, QUAD and Rubertson Reaearch).
Effectivnges of  he Relationshin Between the Bank and Zalire
Durinq_the Prolect
60. IDA made great efforts to supervise the Project at least twice a year
throughout the project period and its extensions. Annual programs were
discussed in detail with the Zairian Government, and at all times CTP
endeavored to follow and apply the Bank's recommendations (to the degree
possible, given the resources available).
61. The Bank, because of the regularity of its supervision missions, quickly
realized the institutional problems facing the establishment of CTP, which
were at that time minimized. It attempted to solve these problems by drawing
attention to the fact that there was a constitutional problem that it had not
identified when the Project was launched.   However, the situation had
deteriorated to such a degree that there was no longer a good relationship
between CTP and PZ, and it was too late to make up for lost time.
62. In general, payments were properly executed, except for disputes with
PETROCONSULTANT SPA concerning the recLinciliation of accounts, and the
question of the application for the payment for financing the Zairian
contribution to CONOCO's appraisal of the Coastal Basin, which the Bank was
unwilling to honor.
Borrower's Conclusions And Lessons Learned
63. As a result of this Credit, Zaire -- in spite of the low level of
petroleum activity -- increased its capacity for operating in the sector by
establishing CTP, an agency that is directly responsible to the Ministry of
Energy and is currently capable of undertaking the promotion of unexplored
petroleum areas and monitoring crude oil production and the importation,
distribution and marketing of finished products, as a result of the data base
it has established and its compilation of the necessary statistics for
calculating the structure of pump prices for finished products. CTP provides
petroleum policy guidance for the Government, and, once its promotion
operations are complete, negotiates exploration contracts, encouraging the
participation of PZ, which continues operations once promotion is complete.
64. The Credit enabled petroleum exploration to be developed (accounting for
48.81% of the financing), whereas other components -- such as training,
equipment and the instituticnal framework -- were neglected.
65. The expertise of the petroleum companies and the monitoring of the
operating costs of petroleum companies acting on behalf of the Government
were neglected, and require additional assistance from the Bank in the form
of a further Credit. An application of this type had been submitted under a
financing project granted to SNEL by the Ministry of Energy (the "ENERGIE-1"
Project). These negotiations have been suspended. The component relating to
CTP should be detached from the above project and urgently examined as a
separate issue. A Credit of between US$4 million and US$5 million is
necessary in order to continue and finalize CTP's current activities.



- 16-
PART 11I. STATIS-TICAL1 IhFORMAON
1.       Rela9ted Baak Loans and_gCedtt
Loan         Title          Puroose       Aweroval    Status       Comments
Cr. 0444    Offshore      Water injection   1978      Pre-paid  Successful
Oil Project  in offshore oil                         operation
in Zaire     production of
Zaire Gulf Oil
Co. & Zaire
Petroleum Co.
2.      Project Timetable
Date            Date               Date    Months of
Item             Planned          Revined            Actual    delay
Reconnaissance                                         10/13/82       -
Identification                                         08/00/82       -
Appraisal Mission                                      02/07/83       -
Credit Negotiations 05/06/83         05/13/83          06/9-10/83    1
Board Approval      06/16/83         07/19/83          08/23/83       2
Credit Signature    08/25/83                           10/26/83       2
Credit Effectiveness                 11/23/83          03/06/84       4
Credit Closing      06/30/87         06/30/88          06/29/90      36
Project Completion  12/31/86         12/31/88          12/31/89      36



17 -
3.       Credit Disbursements
Cumulative EstIMated and-Actual DisLuroements
SDR'000 (US$'000)
Bank Fiscal Year
and Quarter       Estimatad          Actual         etual   of lot.
SDR   ($)         SDR    (SD) DE    (S)
1984
1                   .37   .4   _        _    _
2                   .75   .8          D     -           -     -
3                  1.12  1.2                            -     -
4                  1.59  1.7          .17   .18        10.7  10.1
1985
1                  2.24  2.4          .40   .41        17.8  17.1
2                  2.8   3.0          .42   .44        15.0  14.7
3                  3.0   3.2          .59   .60        19.7  18.7
4                  3.17  3.4          .63   .64        19.8  18.8
1986
1                  3.4   3.6          .84   .84       24.7  23.6
2                  3.6   3.9         1.0   1.04        27.8  26.7
3                  3.9   4.2         1.1   1.14        28.2  27.1
4                  4.1   4.4         1.2   1.24        29.3  28.2
1987
1                  4.2   4.5         1.65  1.8         39.3  40.0
2                  4.2   4.5         1.8   1.96        42.8  43.6
3                  4.2   4.5         2.0   2.25        47.6  50.0
4                  4.2   4.5         2.2   2.5         52.4  55.6
1988
1                  4.2   -           2.6   3.0         61.9  66.6
2                  4.2   -           3.0   3.6         71.4  80.0
3                  4.2   -           3.2   3.8         76.2  84.4
4                  4.2   4.5         3.4   4.0         80.9  88.9
1989
1                  4.2               3.5   4.2         83.3  93.3
2                  4.2               3.6   4.3         85.7  95.5
3                  4.2               3.7   4.4         88.0  97.8
4                  4.2   4.5         3.7   4.5        88.0 100.0
1990
1                  4.2               3.9   4.7         92.8 104.4
2                  4.2               4.0   4.8         95.2 106.6
3                  4.2               4.0   4.9         95.2 108.9
4                  4.2   4.5         4.1   5.0         97.6 111.1
1991
1                  4.2   4.5         4.1   5.05        97.6 112.2
2                  4.2   4.5         4.19  5.07        99.6 112.7
SDR 18,319.56 or US$26,525.07 was undisbursed after the last payment on
November 13, 1990 and was canceled.
Date of Final Disbursement: November 13, 1990
Amount: SDR 25,352.90 (US$36,460.00).



-f 18 _
4.        Projc-t eImplementat
Indicators                          A2aipaI_ltual
I   Airmag agreement for Tanganyika Graben Survey 05/83             05/83
(jointly with Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania)
2   Contract with airmag contractor                 06/83           06/83
3   Contract with airmag supervisor                 06/83           06/83
4   Airmag survey (start)                           07/83           07/83
5   End of Airmag interpretation                    04/84           08/84
6   Exploration Consulting firm                     07/83           08/84
7   Establiahment of Petroleum Unit (CTP)           07/83           10/83
8   Legal Aspects (Negotiator)                      09/83           05/85
9   Geochemical Studias                             05/84           09/88
10  Coastal Basin Reserves Study                    06/84           02/88
1l  Gravity Survey                                  10/84           Canceled



19 -
5.        Project Costs and Financina
A. Proiect Costs
(SDR'000)
Appraisal Estimate a/        Revised                 Actual
Category         Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
1) Consultantcs    308   1,210   1,518            1,354                  1,646
and Experts
2) Surveys          150   1,300   1,450           1,502                  2,041
3) Audit            37       40      77              60                    107 e/
4) Training         37      170     207             237                    120 e/
5) Equipment and    28      170     198             237                     97
Materials
6) Refunding of
PPF              -       560     560             171b/                  171
7) Contingencies   140      750     890             389c/
TOTAL           700   4,200   4,900            4,200         1,028f/ 4,182d/5,210
A/ During negotiations, the coat of consultants and total costs were
increased by SDR 0.3 million.
b/ Actual PPF refunding.
S/ Amount of leftover funds after actual PPF refunding.
d/ To this total, the canceled amount of SDR 18,319.56 must be added.
e/ The individual figures differ from those of the same categories
in Part II but the combined total is about the same.
f/ The breakdown of these expenditures was not readily available in
Bank files and the Borrower did not supply them in Part II.
The total figure for local costs consist of Government contribution
to the CTP based on audit reports, available for FY85-88.
B. Proiect Financing
Planned
Credit
Source         Agreement       Revised         Final           Comments
(US$'000)
IDA            4,500            n.a.           5,068           The final credit
amount in US$ was
higher than the
planned amount
due to Variations
in the exchange
rate bet'ieen the
SDR and the US$.
Domestio-      750              n.a.            1,246
TOTAL       5,250            n.a.           6,314



- 20 -
6.                             Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal       Estimated at   Estimated at Full
indicator K2Etimate            Closing Date       Development
Number of new
exploration
contracts         2                 1                 4
Comments:
Considerable delays were experienced in signing agreements because of: (a)
the inherent difficulties in reaching protocols d'accord for cross-border
agreements; (b) different nation's priorities; and (c) the need of oil
companies to rely on such agreements so that exploration can be conducted
efficiently on either part of a border straddling very narrow elongated
basins.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal             Actual
Estimate       (At final Develoipment)
Economic Rate of Return!         None                 None
C. Financial Imnact
Not relevant
D. Studies
Purpose as defined           Impact of
Studies                   at appraisal       Status     Study
Report on Tanganyika    Promotion of explo- Completed
Graben                  ration acreage
Coastal Basin Reserves  To redesign a stra- Completed Conclusions:
tegy for optimizing           because of
their development             pessimistic
outlook, to focus
efforts on Cuvette
exploration
Report on Central       Promotion of explo- Completed Deferred
Basins (Cuvette)        ration Acreage
1/ No SAR was prepared.



- 21 -
7.      Status of Credit Covenants
Agreements         Compliance
_   Section      Yes (YlNg (N)  Remarks
Establishment of properly         Sect. 3.03 (a)                    Accountant hired
manned Petrol. Unit within        Sched. 2, part                    October 1987
DME's Secretariat                A 1 and Sched.4        Y             (4 yrs late)
Annual Review of staffing         Sect. 3.02 (b)        Y           -
and work program
Training program by 03/84         Sect. 3.04            Y           Complied with
including names of trainees                                         belatedly
Quarterly reports on work         Sect. 3.07 (c)        Y           Irregular
progress and accounts
Completion report                 Sect. 3.07 (e)        Y
Maintain separate accounts        Sect. 4.01 (a)        Y           -
Auditing of accounts              Sect. 4.01 (b)        Y           Late
Opening special account           Sect. 4.02 (a)        Y
for proceeds of sales
IDA authorization to use          Sect. 4.02 (c)        Y           -
proceeds of special account
8.      Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff InRuts (SW)
Stage of
Project Cycle                              Actual       Comments
Through Appraisal.                         10.3
Appraisal through Board
approval                                29.1
Board approval through
effectiveness                           16.9
Supervision                               28
TOTAL                                  84.3



- 22 -
B. &isAsons
Stage of Project                         Number    Persons      Specialization         Performance           Type of
MonthlYear  of SWN       in Fieldr                          Rating StatUaY        Probe'
Throu2h Anaraisal
ReconDissanCe             06/82           2          2       PA, GST                       -                   -
Identification            10/82           2          1       EC, GST
Appraisal                 01/83           2          3       FA, OST
Sub-Tosa                                             6
Appraisal through
Boardi AnDrovd
Post-Negotiations         07/83           2          2.5    PA, (ST                        -
Board Approval
throu,e Effecotiveness
02/84           1          1.5    GSr                           2                   M
sulervisio t
1                         05/84           2          .5     EC, GST                        2
2                         07/84           1          1       GST                           2                   -
3                         01/85           2          3      FA, GST                        2                   M, P
4                         10/85           2          3.5    PA, GSr                        2                   M, P
5                         01/86           2          1       GST(2)                        -
6                         04/86           2          3.5    FA, GST                        3                   M
7                         10/86           2          2.5    FA, GSr                        2                   M
8                         4-5/87          2          3      FA, GST                        3                   M
9                         11/87           2          2       EGR, GST                      3                   M
10                        06/88           2          3      EGR, GST                       2                  M
11                        10/88           2          1      EC, GST                        -                   -
12                        01/89           3          3      EC (2),GST                     2                   M
13                        08/89           1          1      GST                            2
Sub-Total (SpD)                              28
Total                                        38
a/ Key to specialization: EC = Economist; PA = Fmancial Analyst; GST = Geologist; EGR   Engine
b/ Key to status: I - Problem-free or Minor Problems; 2 - Moderate Problems; 3 - Major Problems
g/ Key to problems: M - Managerial; P - Fnancial; T - Tochnical; P - Political
d/ Inadditiontotheseformal supervisions, theTaskManagerhad contactwith CTP fiequentlywhilc inKinshasa on othermissionsdudng 1989and 1990.
C. Costs
Not available



