Report No. PIC4843
Project Name                     Uganda-Third Structural (@)
Adjustment Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                       UG-PA-2987
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Date Prepared                    September 13, 1996
Appraisal Date                   October 10, 1996
Project Board Date               May 27, 1997
Country Background
1.      With a per capita income of about US$250 in 1995, Uganda
ranks among the poorest countries in the world. Poverty in Uganda
is largely the consequence of civil war, political instability and
economic mismanagement during 1972-85. The country has relatively
good growth potential, however. It is blessed with fertile soils
and a good climate. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy: it
accounts for more than 50 percent of GDP, about 75 percent of
export earnings and around 80 percent of employment, and it
provides inputs for a number of manufacturing and processing
industries. Smallholders are the backbone of Ugandan agriculture;
over 80 percent of the farmers cultivate less than two hectares.
The country is predominantly rural, with only 11 percent of the
population living in towns and cities. Industry has grown rapidly
since 1987 but its contribution to GDP is only around 12 percent.
Manufacturing accounts for about half of industrial output.
Adjustment Program
2.      The Government of Uganda embarked upon an Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) in May 1987. The basic objective of the program was
to bring about rapid and sustained improvements in the standard of
living of the average Ugandan. This objective was to be achieved
through stabilization and structural reforms aimed at: (i)
restoring internal and external financial stability and lowering
inflation through prudent fiscal and monetary management; (ii)
creating the conditions for rapid and sustained growth through
deregulation and improved incentives; and (iii) developing human
capital through investments in education, health and other social
services.
3.      The Government has made substantial progress in reforming the
economy. First, it lowered the rate of inflation from about 100
percent in the early-1990s to single digits last year. Price
stability has actually been maintained since 1992. Relatively low
inflation has been accompanied by a fairly stable exchange rate,
although increased inflow of foreign exchange after the
introduction of inter-bank market for in 1993 the Ugandan shilling



has experienced temporary appreciation. Secondly, the Government
has deregulated the incentive and regulatory framework. Thirdly, it
has pursued the reform of public sector institutions: the size of
the civil service and the military has been reduced; there is
better control over the civil service payroll; and privatization of
public enterprises has been accelerated. The supply response in
exports has not yet been as strong as one would have hoped for but
there are many encouraging signs: nontraditional exports have been
growing rapidly, although from a very low base. The 1994/95 coffee
boom due to an increase in the world price of coffee raised rural
incomes considerably. Between FY87 and FY95 real GDP grew at an
average annual rate of 6.9 percent, or 3.7 percent in per capita
terms. In 1994/95 real GDP growth was over 10 percent.
4.      The Government has embarked on a wide-ranging
decentralization program under which much of the public services
delivery is being devolved to districts and local governments.
Decentralization of personnel was undertaken at one go, while
financial decentralization is being implemented in a phased manner.
Part of the recurrent budget is being decentralized in three
phases: thirteen districts in 1993/94, fourteen districts in
1994/95 and twelve districts in 1995/96. Successful implementation
of the decentralization program is likely to remain extremely
challenging because of scarce resources and manpower capacities in
the local governments.
5.      In spite of rapid growth in recent years and many
achievements in reforming the economy and its institutions, Uganda
faces formidable hurdles that must be overcome before there can be
any assurance of sustained economic growth and poverty reduction.
First, institutional capacity to guide social and economic
development needs further strengthening. Secondly, agricultural
technology and know-how currently in use requires substantial
improvement. Thirdly, the human capital base is very deficient.
Fourthly, a strong financial system capable of mobilizing and
allocating savings is lacking. Fifthly, Uganda needs a much
stronger private investment response. The challenge for the
Government, the World Bank and other donors is to systematically
remedy these deficiencies.
The Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit
6.      Following initial discussions at the Consultative Group
meeting in July 1995, the Ugandan Government has requested the Bank
to prepare a Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III). The new
SAC would provide balance-of-payments as well as budgetary support.
7.      The 1996/97 Budget and National Development Strategy 1996/97-
1998/99 spells out the linkage between management of the budget,
macro stability, economic growth and poverty reduction. Within this
context, the proposed SAC III focuses on long term fiscal
sustainability, including a more efficient tax system as well as
better management of public expenditures. On the revenue side, the
SAC program includes measures to expand the tax base, and to lower
the level and dispersion of trade taxes in order to reduce anti-
export bias throughout the economy. On the expenditure side, the
- 2-



focus is on improving efficiency in the management of public
expenditure, taking into account the ongoing decentralization
process. Improving the budgetary process is a necessary condition
for implementation of the Government's recently announced Strategy
for Poverty Eradication. In addition, SAC III includes measures to
reduce the fiscal burden of public enterprises and incorporates the
fiscal impact of financial sector reforms within the overall
macroeconomic framework.
8.      Description. The credit, in the amount of about US$100
million, will be granted on IDA terms for a period of 40 years,
including a grace period of 10 years, at 0.75 percent per annum.
9.      Benefits and Risks. The proposed program will support the
recent gains in achieving macroeconomic stability and will
accelerate structural and institutional reforms in Uganda. The
measures to improve tax collection and to reduce dependence of the
public sector on aid should result in a more sustainable fiscal
position over the next few years. Efficiency gains are expected
both in the private and public sectors, with the increased
participation of the private sector in key areas of the economy and
the expected improvement in the management and operation of the
public sector. The main risks associated with this operation are
related to the institutional capacity to carry out the necessary
reforms. To minimize these risks, the Bank is currently
implementing the Institutional Capacity Building Project and
preparing a technical assistance credit to support economic and
financial management.
10.     Environmental Impact. In accordance with the Bank's
Operational Directives on Environment Assessment (OD 4.01), a
Structural Adjustment Credit falls in category "U" and does not
require an environmental assessment.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997
- 3 -



