Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N023-1-UG
(First Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Interim Fund
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund
 established with funds contributed
 by certain members of 
International Development Association
 pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184
of the Board of Governors of 
International Development Association
Dated January 17, 2001
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N023-1-UG
(First Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
INTERIM FUND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 2001, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Administrator, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Administrator have entered into an Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement (Third Structural Adjustment Credit) dated July 10, 1997 
(the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support 
during the execution of the Borrower’s program designed to achieve structural 
adjustment of the Borrower’s economy;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Administrator to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Program by increasing the amount made available under the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to nineteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
Page  2
19,600,000); and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Interim Trust Fund Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Interim Trust Fund Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to include a new paragraph (o) to read as follows:
“(o)
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement Amending the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement (Third Structural Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower 
and the Administrator, dated January 17, 2001.”
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred and ten million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 110,000,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an original 
amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety million four hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 90,400,000) (the Initial Financing); and (b) an additional 
amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,600,000) (the Additional Financing).”
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 (b) of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement 
is amended as follows:
(a)
Paragraph (b) is amended by substituting the phrase “paragraph (c)” by 
“paragraphs (c) and (d)”.
(b)
The following paragraph (d) is added at the end of said Section 2.02 
reading as follows:
“(d)
After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending Agreement, no 
withdrawal shall be made from the Interim Fund Credit Account in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing.  At any 
time after such date, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Additional Financing from the Interim Fund Credit Account or 
any part thereof.”
Section 1.04. Section 2.03 of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.”
Section 1.05. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement is amended by adding after the term “cancelled” the following proviso 
reading:
“and that any commitment charge on the Additional Financing shall accrue from a date 
Page  3
sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement.”
Section 1.06. Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement is deleted and replaced by the new Schedule set out in the Annex to this 
Amending Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Administrator shall have been furnished to the Administrator that 
(a) the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on 
the basis of performance indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Administrator 
and (b) the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
(b) of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Administrator an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Administrator of counsel acceptable to the 
Administrator showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Administrator shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Administrator establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  
If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as 
if this Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By /s/ Edith Ssempala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with 
funds 
contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to 
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of 
International Development Association
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  4
ANNEX
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table 
below sets forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account:
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Categories
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche
   32,530,000
100%
(2)
Second Tranche
   48,490,000
100%
(3)
First Floating
   14,490,000
100%
Tranche
(4)
Second Floating
   14,490,000
100%
Tranche
TOTAL
  110,000,000
