Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N023-UG
Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established 
with funds contributed by certain members of International 
Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated July 10, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N023-UG
INTERIM FUND 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1997, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Administrator has received a letter (the Letter of Development 
Policy), dated April 29, 1997, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's 
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Administrator in support 
of the Program during the execution thereof; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Administrator has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making an 
Interim Fund Credit in one tranche as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, “Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively; 
(c)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Interim 
Fund 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Interim Fund Credit 
is made.";
(d)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution”; and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries”;
(e)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(f)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account shall be made in the currency of 
the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement." 
(g)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit 
from the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of 
the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions."
(h)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(i)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(j)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Administrator, the 
Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the program referred to in the Preamble 
to the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Administrator of their respective 
obligations under the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement and the 
Page  3
accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit."; and
(k)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“BOU” means the Bank of Uganda, the Borrower’s central bank; 
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
“Tranche” means any of the following: the First Tranche, the Second 
Tranche, the First Floating Tranche and the Second Floating Tranche as such terms are 
hereinafter defined;
(d)
“First Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, to be released by the Administrator on or after the Effective Date;
(e)
“Second Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit allocated to Category (2) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, to be released by the Administrator on or after the date on which 
the conditions referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been 
met;
(f) 
“First Floating Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit allocated to Category (3) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the Administrator on or after the date 
on which the conditions referred to in paragraph (4) (a) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement have been met;
(g)
“Second Floating Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit allocated to Category (4) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 of this Agreement, to be released by the Administrator on or after the date 
on which the conditions referred to in paragraph (4) (b) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement have been met;
(h)
“Ush” means Uganda Shillings, the currency of the Borrower; 
(i)
“UCB” means Uganda Commercial Bank; 
(j)
“NPART” means the Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust established under 
the NPART Act of 1995 to recover UCB’s non-performing loans portfolio;
(k)
“District” means each of the Borrower’s local government units described 
as such in its 1995 Constitution;
(l)
“LDP” means the Letter of Development Policy referred to in paragraph (B) 
of the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(m)
“State of Emergency” means a state of emergency declared pursuant to 
Article 110 of the Borrower’s 1995 Constitution; and
(n)
“COMESA” means the Community of Eastern and Southern African Countries.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety million four hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 90,400,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Administrator the first request for withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account, 
and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.  All withdrawals from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the 
Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Administrator shall have determined at any time 
that any proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure excluded pursuant to the provisions of said Schedule 1, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, (i) deposit into the 
deposit account referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Administrator shall so request, refund such 
amount to the Administrator.  Amounts refunded to the Administrator upon such request 
shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or cancelled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2007 and ending 
February 1, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
February 1, 2017 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
Page  5
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest rate at an 
annual rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. BOU is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall from time to time, 
at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Administrator for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Administrator on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Interim Fund Credit which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Administrator's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(b)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Administrator's request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
deposit account and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Page  6
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement namely that the Borrower has announced its tariff 
reform plan and time table in accordance with paragraph 19 of the LDP.
Section 5.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General conditions.
Section 5.03.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:
Telex:
FINSEC
61170
Kampala
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By /s/ Edith Sempala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table 
below sets forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account:
Amount of  
the Credit
     % of
Allocated (Expressed in
 Expenditures
Categories
     SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
First
Tranche
32,530,000
100%
 (2)
Second Tranche
28,890,000
100%
(3)
First Floating
14,490,000
100%
Tranche
(4)
Second Floating
14,490,000
100%
Tranche
__________
Total
90,400,000
==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and for purposes of Section 
2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall not be used 
to finance the following expenditures:
(a)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Administrator 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Administrator shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan; 
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of 
the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
Page  8
or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Administrator by notice to the Borrower: \0c
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   --
Alcoholic beverages
121
   --
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
   --
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   --
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   --
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel 
elements (cartridges), nonirradiated for 
nuclear reactors 
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum 
group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares (including 
set gems) 
971
   --
Gold, nonmonetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption;
(e)
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use 
or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as 
environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Administrator);
(f)
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank, or goods procured in or services supplied from such territories (b) in 
the territories of any country which is not a Participating Country, or for goods 
procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (c) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Administrator 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit during the procurement or 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the situation.
3.
No withdrawal shall be made from the Interim Fund Credit Account under Category 
(2) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the amount specified in 
Category (1) has been withdrawn by the Borrower and the Administrator shall be 
satisfied after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Administrator:
(i)
with the fulfillment of the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 
to this 
Agreement; and
(ii)
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been 
taken in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Administrator.
Page  9
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 above, withdrawals may be made by 
the Borrower in respect of Categories (3) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule at any time when the Administrator shall be satisfied after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory 
to the Administrator, that the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
have been fulfilled, and in addition:
(a)
with respect to said Category (3), the actions described in Part C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Administrator; and
(b)
with respect to said Category (4), the actions described in Part D of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken.
5.
If, after any of the exchange of views referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 above, 
the Administrator shall have given notice to the Borrower that the requirements of 
Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or the actions taken under Parts B, C or D of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the case may be, are not satisfactory and, within 
ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have met the requirements 
of Part A of said Schedule 2 or taken the actions under Parts B, C or D of said 
Schedule 2, as the case may be, then the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Requirements and Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 3 and 4  
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A:
1.
The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program.
2.
The Borrower has achieved progress satisfactory to the Association in the 
carrying out of the Program.
3.
The Borrower has, in each fiscal year, limited the use of supplementary budgets, 
except when otherwise justified on grounds of a State of Emergency, to no more than 3% 
of all expenditures funded by the Borrower.
Part B: 
(Conditions for the release of the Second Tranche)
The Borrower has:
1.
reduced import duties to a maximum of 20%, terminated the practice of uneven 
application of taxes and rates (other than import duties) on imported and domestic 
goods and abolished all remaining non-tariff barriers except on tobacco.
2.
implemented an integrated pilot sector programming and budgeting plan as 
specified in paragraph 24 of the LDP for the education, health and agriculture sectors 
in conjunction with the Districts;
3.
in its fiscal years 1997/98 and 1998/99,
(a)
increased budgetary allocations for agriculture research and extension, 
primary health and primary education at least at the rate of increase of nominal GDP; 
and
(b)
(i)
allocated the budgetary resources required to meet its 
contribution for 
projects in the Borrower’s public investment 
program; and
(ii)
released such resources on a timely basis;
4.
commenced to implement an action plan to improve the financial accounting and 
auditing systems at the central and local government levels;
Page  10
5.
The Borrower has taken all measures necessary to publish in its official gazette 
and disseminate the budgets of Districts and the reports of the Local Government 
Public Accounts Committee;
6.
in its fiscal year 1996/97, reduced by at least 20% the aggregate amount of 
subsidies given to state owned enterprises in fiscal year 1994/95;
7.
(a)
(i)
completed the sale of UCB or 
(ii)
implemented a back-up plan for the restructuring  of UCB 
consistent with 
paragraph 39 of the LDP;
(b)
adopted, in accordance with paragraph 44 of the LDP, a policy designed to 
stop losses in,  and minimize budgetary costs relating to, Uganda Development Bank.
8.
submitted draft legislation to its Parliament to clarify the role of Uganda 
Revenue Authority in accordance with paragraph 14 of the LDP.
Part C:
(Conditions for the release of the First Floating Tranche)
The Borrower has implemented a low uniform duty rate on all non-COMESA imports.
Part D:
(Conditions for the release of the Second Floating Tranche)
NPART has collected at least Ush 25 billion in non-performing loans in 
accordance with paragraph 41 of the LDP.
