Document of
The World Bank
FILE         COPY                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2056-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 27,' 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         ¢ 126
¢ 1.00          US$0.008
¢ 1,000         US$7.94
¢ 1,000,000     US$7,937
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF         - National Development Bank
CNPS        - National Council for Social Progress
IBR         -  Institute of Rural Welfare
MAG         - Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MOPC        - Ministry of Public Works and Communications
MSPBS       - Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR A
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$22.0 million to assist
in financing a Second Rural Development Project. The Government would make
available the proceeds of the loan to all the participating agencies through
the Central Bank (CB). The part of the proceeds of the proposed loan allo-
cated to finance on-farm credit (about US$5.1 million) would be relent to the
Government-owned Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) through a rediscounting
arrangement, at 7% per annum. BNF would relend the loan proceeds to subbor-
rowers at an effective rate of interest of at least 13% per annum, and with
terms of 5 to 10 years, including a maximum grace period of 3 years. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest
at 8.2% per annum. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. In
addition to the proposed Bank loan, the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW)
is considering a credit to the Government for US$2.8 million equivalent to
help finance part of the project's credit program. The proposed KfW credit
would be for 30 years, including 10 years of grace, at an interest rate of
2% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Medium- and Long-Term Economic Prospects
of Paraguay" (899-PA) and a sector report entitled "The Agriculture Sector of
Paraguay" (933-PA) were distributed to the Executive Directors in December
1975 and February 1976. An updating economic memorandum is near completion
and will be distributed to the Executive Directors in the near future. A sum-
mary of Country Basic Data is attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Paraguay's economy has recently begun a period of rapid transforma-
tion, largely stimulated by the expansion of production of exportable crops
and the construction of the Itaipu hydroelectric project, on Paraguay's east-
ern border at the Parana River. This project, a joint effort with Brazil,
will be one of the largest projects of its kind ever built. Expenditures
for its construction would be equivalent to about four times Paraguay's
national output in 1976. Under the terms of a treaty between Brazil and
Paraguay, a binational authority was created to construct and operate the
project. Financing to the binational entity will be provided by Brazil and
suppliers' credits with the guarantee of the Brazilian Government. Paraguay
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
will be entitled to half the power output of Itaipu, and itg acquisition of
50% of the ownership of the plant would be financed from the revenues gener-
ated by the sales of power to Brazil. The initiation of construction activ-
ities in 1975-76 has already had a strong favorable impact on the balance of
payments. Net foreign exchange reserves increased by US$65 million during
1975-76, primarily because Itaipu's large capital inflows more than offset its
negative effects on the current account deficit, which climbed sharply from an
average of US$9 million in 1972-73 to nearly US$190 million in 1975-76. The
indirect effects of the project have also been notable.    The initiation of the
Itaipu works and the possibility of further development of the hydroelectric
potential of the section of the Parana River bordering Argentina have already
resulted in an upsurge of private direct investment (from an average of US$6.0
million in 1972-73 to an average of US$37 million in 1975-76), and sharply
increased the demand for public services and development credit.
Current Economic Position
4.        Despite the handicap stemming from Paraguay's landlocked position
and the disadvantages inherent in the country's remoteness from the major
world markets, the Paraguayan economy was able to achieve moderate, but fairly
steady growth (4.6% per annum) during the 1960s. This was accomplished in an
environment of monetary stability and balance-of-payments equilibrium, as
indicated by an average inflation rate of only 3% and a stable exchange
rate.
5.        The 1970s have witnessed an acceleration of the country's growth
with GDP increasing at an average annual rate of 6.7%, due largely to an
expansion of output in agriculture and agriculturally based industry. Agri-
culture, the main sector of the economy, accounts for about one-third of GDP
and some 97% of export earnings (including processed agricultural commodities.
Industry, on the other hand, accounts for about 15% of GDP. Agricultural and
industrial production expanded at an annual rate of about 6% during the
1970-76 period. This performance represents a notable improvement over the
average growth rate experienced during the previous decade, when the increase
in agricultural and industrial output barely kept pace with population growth.
The rise in external demand and favorable prices were probably the most
important factors in accelerating growth. However, the effective supply
response of Paraguayan agriculture was also made possible by a consistent
effort on the part of the Government to improve the country's transport
infrastructure and implement a comprehensive set of programs designed to
increase and diversify exports, particularly of agricultural and agroindus-
trial products.
6.        The adverse effects of the international economic situation on the
Paraguayan economy since 1973 have been surprisingly small. Although there
was a decline in economic growth from 8.3% in 1974 to 5% in 1975, the economy
recovered and grew at an estimated 7% in 1976. Inflation which had escalated
to 22% in 1974, largely reflecting price increases in the the foreign sector,
was brought under control rapidly as price increases declined to 8% in 1975
and to an estimated 6% in 1976. The ability of Paraguay to sustain its



- 3 -
growth and restore financial stability was largely due to:     (a) continued
strong demand for Paraguayan exports (other than beef) and good supply
responses in agricultural commodities; (b) large private capital inflows
associated with oil exploration in the Chaco region; new investment opportu-
nities related to the construction of the large hydroelectric power projects
in the Parana; investments in land, agroindustries, commercial banking, and
other industries stimulated by the incentives provided to foreign investors;
(c) the authorities' adherence to flexible pricing policies, allowing in-
creases in oil, wheat and meat prices to be entirely passed on to the con-
sumer; and (d) an adoption of monetary, fiscal and incomes policy designed to
restrain the growth of consumption.
7.        Paraguay's imports have risen much more rapidly than its exports
since 1973--34% per year compared with 15% for exports. The rapid growth of
imports largely reflects higher prices (and, to a much lesser extent, import
volumes) for petroleum and petrochemicals, and imports associated with the
Itaipu dam. Export growth has been inhibited by EEC restrictions on beef
imports and limitations on wood imports in neighboring countries. This has,
in large measure, been offset by the growth of other agricultural exports.
The divergence between export and import growth has resulted in a swing in
the trade balance from a small surplus in 1973 to a deficit of US$131 million
in 1976. The rise in the current account deficit has generally paralleled
that of the trade gap, reaching US$206 million in 1976.
8.        Despite the large and rapidly increasing current account deficit,
heavy capital inflows have, as already noted, permitted the country to achieve
overall balance-of-payments surpluses during the last four years. Net foreign
exchange reserves reached a level of US$152 million at the end of 1976, equiv-
alent to five months' imports. The Government has relied more heavily than in
the past on external borrowing and this has resulted in a notable, although
not serious increase in external debt. Total public and publicly guaranteed
debt (disbursed only) has risen from US$149 million at the end of 1974 to
US$222 million at the end of 1976. The country's debt service ratio has risen
from 6.7% in 1974 to 6.9% in 1976. On the whole, however, the level of debt
is moderate, average interest rates modest, and the maturity structure reason-
able enough so that there is no threat to the country's external liquidity.
Economic Prospects
9.        Paraguay's development prospects are quite promising.     The exploit-
ation of the country's vast hydropower resources will provide a source of
plentiful low cost energy and foreign exchange earnings. The construction
of the Itaipu project jointly with Brazil and other possible projects in
cooperation with Argentina will provide a significant stimulus to the growth
of the economy, while capital inflows associated with them fortify the balance
of payments. In addition, since only 12% of the country's arable land is
presently under cultivation, there is also considerable potential for further
expansion of agriculture and agroindustry taking advantage of the country's
extensive land suitable for agriculture, livestock and forestry, as well as
favorable market opportunities in its main trading partners.



- 4 -
10.       The Government:s development strategy aims at sustaining the growth
momentum of agriculture and agroindustry, giving high priority to land settle-
ment and to the provision of transport infrastructure to facilitate the flow
of goods to markets and export outlets. It is implementing a program to
assist farmers in settlement areas to increase their productivity and is
expanding credit for agriculture and agroindustries. In the case of small
farmers, the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization schemes
and the establishment of a few new ones. Through foreign private investment
and credit programs, the Government hopes to underpin the concurrent develop-
ment of industries, particularly of those that would help raise the value-
added content of its primary production. The results to date indicate the
soundness of this approach; real per capita income increased by more than 35%
during 1967-76.
11.       Sustaining rates of GDP growth in the 7-8% range will require
stepped-up investment efforts on the part of both the private and public
sectors. Continued high rates of economic growth are bound to place consider-
able pressure on the country's social and economic infrastructure. An accel-
eration of public capital formation will require tax action to ensure the
generation of internal resources to provide the domestic contribution for the
investment program.
12.       At the same time, the achievement of a 7-8% GDP growth rate during
1977-81 will require increasingly large capital inflows from foreign private
and official sources. Despite an expected recovery of Paraguay's traditional
exports (beef and wood) during this period, a continued strong growth of soy-
beans and cotton exports, and a considerably higher level of sales for the
construction of Itaipu, the balance-of-payments current account deficit is
projected to widen from US$200 million in 1976 to about US$600 million in
1981. The larger gap will result primarily from a continued rapid increase of
imports, particularly capital goods, and goods. and services for the Itaipu
project. The transactions associated with this project will continue to exert
a major impact on Paraguay's current account balance as nearly 40% of the
projected annual deficits during the next Eive years will be directly attri-
butable to Itaipu.
13.       The direct capital inflows stemming from the Itaipu project will be
more than sufficient to finance its contribution to the current account defi-
cit and should, in fact, cover 65% of the entire external gap. These capital
flows will, in turn, be serviced by foreign exchange receipts resulting from
the sale of Paraguay's share of the electricity produced by the dams after the
first turbines are installed in 1984. This will leave a requirement of
approximately US$165 million per year to be financed from other sources.
Direct private investment, which can be expected to continue growing rapidly,
would provide about one-third of this. Suppliers' credits and official
external assistance will probably provide US$75 million per year. The
remaining gap of about US$35 million would need to be financed by borrowing
from commercial banks. Since Paraguay has in the past obtained the bulk of
its capital needs on concessionary terms and, as a result, its present debt



-5-
service ratio is low by international standards, the country's creditworthi-
ness is not expected to be impaired by additional borrowing of this estimated
magnitude. The debt service ratio is expected to remain between 10-12% until
1981, assuming that funds from bilateral and multilateral sources will continue
to be forthcoming, thereby preventing an undue hardening of Paraguay's overall
borrowing terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       Paraguay has received US$103.8 million (net of cancellations) in
Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$58.3 million has been in the
form of ten IBRD loans, and eight credits totalling US$45.5 million have been
made from IDA resources. As of March 31, 1977, the Bank and IDA held US$96.1
million, including US$47.3 million undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank
and IDA was equivalent to 25.2% of Paraguay's external debt, with a blend of
about 45% IDA and 55% IBRD. The service on this debt amounted to 13.1% of
total debt service in 1976 representing about 1% of exports of goods and
nonfactor services. On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay
has been 45% for agriculture, 32% for transportation, 19% for education and 4%
for preinvestment studies in several sectors. Execution of these projects
has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
15.       IFC has had only one operation in Paraguay.    In 1974, it financed
a wood processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with
FINAP, S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, an equity participation of
US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost overruns of
US$0.4 million. Annex II contains a summary of Bank lolns, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of December 31, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY76 consisted of a credit for
preinvestment studies and a Third-Window loan for vocational training, total-
ling US$8.0 million. In FY77, the program consists of the recently approved
Third Education Project, and the proposed rural development and industrial
credit projects. In addition, work is underway on a highway maintenance
and construction project, a rural water supply project and a domestic airports
project for possible consideration by the Execut-ive Directors during the next
two years.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group has tried to assist the
Government in achieving four major objectives which are interdependent and
complementary. One objective is to spread the b`enefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second objective is to help Paraguay expand output, including
exports, by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contri-
butions to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs
that will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and,



- 6 -
particularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries.  A fourth objective is to transfer sufficient external re-
sources to complement Paraguay's domestic savings and provide the necessary
funds for maintaining an adequate level of economic and social investments in
a framework of sound domestic finances and a viable balance of payments.
18.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of the
Bank's Group program in Paraguay, the other three jointly determine its com-
position. Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends listed
and may, moreover, support more specific government objectives. Thus, Bank
Group assistance for education and rural development is designed to help ease
the rural poverty problem and to improve the educational standards of the low-
est 40% of the income distribution scale. Bank Group lending for industry is
aimed at increasing the value added of agricultural products destined for
export and at expanding marketing outlets, particularly for small farmers.
Lastly, loans in the transport sector are designed to help improve institu-
tional structures and policies of the sector, which play a vital role in
supporting the production activities of the agricultural and industrial
sectors. The proposed project will help expand the scope of the Government's
rural development program and also help strengthen the National Development
Bank, the most important source of development credit in Paraguay.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
19.       Although agriculture is the most important activity in the
Paraguayan economy, the country has barely tapped its agricultural potential.
In 1976, the sector accounted for nearly 34% of GDP, 97% of exports of goods
(including wood and processed products) and 52% of total employment. Its
recent growth performance has been noteworthy, as agriculture has responded
effectively to favorable external demand and prices. The sector grew at an
annual rate of over 6% during 1973-76 compared to an average growth rate of
about 3% per annum during 1962-72. This response was rendered possible by
the large investments in transport infrastructure carried out in the 1960s as
well as by a comprehensive set of programs aimed at a diversification of the
country's export base. Nevertheless, the country still has abundant unused
land resources suitable for crop production. It is estimated that out of a
total of approximately 40 million ha, the country has 8 million ha that could
be used in efficient crop production, of which only about 12% are currently
used. Paraguay's comparative advantage in agriculture lies in such products
as beef, soybeans, cotton, oilseeds, sugar and tobacco. All these products
are expected to have a strong demand in world markets in the medium-term, and
thus exports of agricultural and agroindustrial products can be expected to be
one of the main engines of growth during the next five years.
20.       The Government, aware of this unexploited agricultural potential,
has committed itself to a policy of increasing the production of exportable
agricultural commodities and expanding the area under cultivation through the



- 7 -
colonization of virgin lands. In 1962, the Government established the
Instituto de Bienestar Rural (IBR) to deal with all aspects of land reform
and land settlement. Since its inception, IBR, an autonomous agency under
the Ministry of Agriculture, has established 250 publicly sponsored colonies,
involving over 40,000 families, on unused State lands. This has led to a
relocation of settlers from the Asuncion minifundia zone to potentially
viable farm units in more fertile areas of Eastern Paraguay. The colonization
program has concentrated on settling the largest number of families at the
lowest possible cost, basing development largely on the self-reliance of the
family. Although this policy opened rich new lands to agricultural production
and brought about major changes in the land tenure structure, existing insti-
tutions were unable to provide colonies with needed services and infrastruc-
ture and, as a result, the standard of living of many settlers is barely above
that of minifundistas. Recent surveys, however, indicate that despite the
shortcomings of the colonization program, much of the recent increase in agri-
cultural production has come from farmers who have benefitted from the Govern-
ment's land settlement program.
21.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) is responsible for
policy formulation and supervision and review of supporting services for the
sector. The most important areas of concern of MAG are agricultural extension,
marketing, agricultural statistics and land reform. Various autonomous enti-
ties are responsible for carrying out specific agricultural programs and
activities. The National University of Asuncion provides most of the agricul-
tural education and research, while the Institute of Rural Welfare is respon-
sible for carrying out land tenure, land reform and colonization programs.
The National Development Bank, the Livestock Fund and the Credito Agricola de
Habilitacion are responsible for providing credit to ranchers and farmers.
The National Service for the Control of Foot and Mouth Disease and the National
Program for Livestock Research provide services for the livestock subsector.
Land Tenure
22.       Land distribution in Paraguay still remains uneven, despite the
Government's efforts to change the land tenure structure. The problem does
not seem to be too critical because of Paraguay's low population density,
relatively low rural unemployment, and ample availability of unexploited land
resources. It is estimated that about 96% of the total number of farms are
of less than 100 ha in size and 61% are less than 10 ha--60% of these small
units (10 ha) are concentrated in the area south of Asuncion known as the
minifundia zone which covers less than 4% of the total area. At the other
extreme, 76 extensive livestock ranches each larger than 25,000 ha in the
Chaco, and 106 holdings of more than 10,000 ha in the Eastern Region account
for 14 million ha or 36% of the country. A large portion of these lands,
however, is either unsuited for cultivation or, if suited, has at present a
higher rate of return in livestock and forestry production. Extensive live-
stock operations are likely to prevail on them for the foreseeable future.
However, to ensure an adequate utilization of land resources, the land reform
law empowers the Government to expropriate large estates when land is not put
to productive uses. This is the case of the area covered by the project,



- 8 -
wlhere more than 200,000 ha were owned by absentee landlords. To carry out the
project, the Government has expropriated this land, so that it can be made
available to existing and new settlers.
23.       Paraguay's small farmers face a multitude of problems linked with
the intrinsic difficulties common to poor rural societies and the handicaps
involved in farming with little capital and low levels of technology. The
proposed project is primarily aimed at overcoming some of the most obvious
constraints to increasing rural productivity, output and incomes, i.e., insuf-
ficient credit and technical assistance, and deficient transport and market-
ing facilities.
Government Action
24.       With the assistance of external lenders, the Government has embarked
upon programs to help improve the income levels of the rural poor. Some of
these programs are designed to deal with rural development problems at the
national level by providing credit, storage, marketing, research, and agricul-
tural education to small farmers, as is the case under an IDB-financed program.
Other programs are designed to assist farmers in specific areas, as is the
case of the AID-financed program that has provided financial assistance to
various cooperatives of small farmers in the minifundia area. The major
thrust of the most recent Government effort, however, is through a program
designed to consolidate land settlement schemes. This is a departure from
previous policies, which were aimed at settling the largest number of families
at the lowest possible cost, and which failed to resolve the rural poverty
problem because settlers did not receive sufficient back-up services, financ-
ial support, and technical assistance to enable them to rise much above a sub-
sistence level of production. As a first step in this direction, the National
Council of Social Progress, with the assistance of UNDP/FAO, mounted in 1972
a five-year integrated development program covering 23 Government-sponsored
colonies on the "northern axis." In 1974, the Government, with help from an
IDA credit, undertook a more comprehensive rural development program in three
large settlement colonies in eastern Paraguay. The Government now seeks
external financial assistance to carry out two similar projects to deal with
the problems of existing land settlement schemes in the Alto Parana and Itapua
Departments, two of the areas that have the greatest potential for expanding
food production in Paraguay. The former is under consideration by the Inter-
American Development Bank, wlhile the latter provides the location for the pro-
posed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
25.       A report entitled:   "Appraisal of a Second Rural Development Project"
(No.1448a-PA dated April 12, 1977) is being distributed separately. A Loan
and Project Summary is attached as Annex III. The project was identified by
an FAO/CP Mission to Paraguay during September 1975 and subsequently prepared



- 9 -
by two FAO/CP missions to Paraguay during September 1975 and April/May 1976.
The project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Paraguay in September/
October 1976. Negotiations were held in Asuncion from March 28 to April 1,
1977.
26.       The proposed loan would be the eighth Bank Group operation for agri-
cultural development in Paraguay. The first was made in 1951 and consisted of
a US$5.0 million loan to finance the importation of supplies and equipment to
help improve farming methods and transport facilities. The following five
operations consisted of three IDA credits totalling US$15.4 million and two
loans for a total of US$12.1 million to finance four livestock development
projects, the last of which, still under execution, is ahead of schedule, de-
spite a deterioration of the beef export market. The seventh operation, a
US$11.0 million credit, is helping to finance a small farmer credit and rural
development project, also under execution (Credit 509-PA). Overall, execution
of these projects has been satisfactory.
27.       Implementation of the agricultural credit component of the Small
Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project and some of the institution-
building reforms in respect to the National Development Bank (BNF) are behind
schedule. The latter are: (a) strengthening BNF's collection office;
(b) preparing a plan of action to reduce arrears to a level of 10% of the
portfolio by September 1976; (c) raising interest rates to a minimum of 12%;
and (d) improving BNF's debt-equity position. BNF's newly appointed manage-
ment has recently adopted a debt recovery plan satisfacory to the Bank to
reduce arrears to 15% of BNF's portfolio by the end of 1978 and to 10% by the
end of 1979. The project's civil works component has been affected by cost
overruns caused by rapidly increasing construction costs. To enable the
Government to carry out the project without excessive cost overruns, IDA
agreed to: (a) the execution of a part of the civil works for this project by
force account; (b) the revision of design standards for schools and a small
reduction in their number; and (c) a reduction in the number of vehicles to be
acquired. The overall objectives of the project are likely to be achieved,
although with some delay.
Project Oblectives and Description
28.       The project seeks to increase agricultural production and farm
income and to improve the quality of life of the rural poor. To help realize
the full benefits of directly productive investments, the project would make
available to farmers credit, technical assistance and support infrastructure.
Similarly, to complement the increased purchasing power of project benefi-
ciaries with improvements in the quality of life, the project would provide
for basic social infrastructure and services. In addition, educational
facilities in the project area would be provided through a recently approved
rural education project.
29.       The proposed loan would help finance an integrated rural development
project in the Itapua Department. The project would consist of: (i) a three-
year farm credit program to be carried out through the National Development



- 10 -
Bank (BNF), designed to provide both short-term working capital and long-term
investment credit to small farmers already settled in the area; (ii) a 337 km
feeder road improvement and construction program, including 99 km of all-
weather roads; (iii) a health program consisting of the construction or up-
grading, equipping and staffing, including training, of eight health posts and
four health centers; (iv) construction of two community centers; and (v) a
teclnical assistance program, including staffing and equipment, for project
administration and implementation. The project area comprises two zones along
a section of the Alto Parana River bordering Argentina: Zone A, an already
settled area, would encompass about 80,000 ha between the cities of Encarnacion
in the southwest and Hohenau in the northeast; and Zone B, a partially settled
area of about 235,000 ha between the Manduviyu River on the southwest and the
Yacui-Guazu River on the northeast. The proceeds of the proposed loan would
be allocated to finance the project's expenditures in Zone B. A proposed loan
from the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau would help finance expenditures in
Zone A (see para. 35).
30.       Farm Credit Program.   This program, primarily designed to improve
living conditions of settlers already in the project area, would benefit
directly about 3,555 farmers, 600 in Zone A and 2,955 in Zone B. Farmers
would receive long- and short-term credit to finance on-farm investments and
incremental working capital expenditures. Some 3,060 farmers, 370 in Zone A
and 2,690 in Zone B, operate units farmed primarily with family labor, averag-
ing some 20 ha, of which some 5 ha have already been partially cleared. The
project would provide financial assistance to destump the 5 ha currently
farmed and to clear an additional 2 ha of forest. The average investment cost
for this type of farm would be about G 388,600 (US$3,100), including working
capital requirements of about G 71,000 (US$564). In addition, the program
would assist some 495 farmers, 230 in Zone A and 265 in Zone B, whose units
average about 40 ha, of whlich 8 ha have already been destumped and 6 ha cleared.
The credit program would assist these farmers to destump the 6 ha of cleared
land and become eligible to receive, individually or in groups, financing to
purchase a tractor if they have made appropriate arrangements to utilize each
tractor on at least 40 ha per year. These arrangements might involve group
purclhase of a tractor or agreements to undertake custom work for neighboring
farmers (Para. 3, Schedule I of the Project Agreement). Investment costs for
this type of farm would amount to about G 1,260,800 (US$10,000) per farm unit,
including working capital of about G 307,000 (US$2,439). The total cost of
the credit program is estimated at US$14.4 million, or 47.5% of the baseline
costs of the project.
31.       Roads.   To improve farm-to-market access in Zone B, the project
would provide for the construction of a feeder road network that would bring
almost all farmers in the area to within 5 km of a road. The network would
consist of 99 km of all-weather roads, providing direct| access to the whole
of Zone B, and about 238 km of earth roads, mostly on t1he river side. The
total cost of the road component is estimated at US$12.6 million, or 41.5% of
baseline costs. Zone A already has an adequate road network.



- 11 -
32.       Health.   The project would finance the construction and equipping
of eiglht health posts, two new health centers, two upgraded centers and the
cost of staffing and training personnel for these health facilities during
the thiree-year disbursement period of the loan. These facilities would be
primarily staffed with auxiliary personnel recruited from the local communi-
ties. For these purposes, existing staff from the Ministry of Public Health
and Social Welfare would carry out a program to train field technicians. The
system would be designed to maintain operating costs at a reasonable level.
Tlhe total cost of the health component is estimated at US$1.1 million, or 3.6%
of baseline costs.
33.       Community Centers.   The project would finance construction of two
community centers in Zone B adjacent to the proposed all-weather road. Invest-
ments would consist of civil works and equipment. Each center would have
office accommodations, conference room, warehouse, and vehicle maintenance
workshop, with power and water supplies, basic office equipment, furniture,
and a radio link. The total cost of this component is estimated at US$0.8
million, or 2.7% of baseline costs.
34.       Technical Assistance.   The project would finance the staffing, equip-
ping and other operational expenses during the first three years incurred
in the administration of the project and in the implementation of the land
titling and technical assistance programs for project beneficiaries. Equip-
ment would consist mainly of vehicles for the project staff and some basic
furniture and equipment for the field offices. At the peak of the implemen-
tation phase, the staff assigned to the project area would consist of a
coordinator, a deputy coordinator, 16 loan officers from BNF, 16 extension
agents from the 11inistry of Agriculture, 14 specialists in land tenure problems
from the Institute of Rural Welfare (IBR), and the equivalent of 16 man/years
of clerical support. In addition, the Government would retain the services of
an internationally recruited specialist in farm management to assist in the
implementation of the credit programs (Section 3.02(b) of the Loan Agreement)
The total cost of this component is estimated at US$1.4 million, or 4.7% of
baseline costs.
Project Costs and Financing
35.       The total project cost is estimated at US$42.8 million, of which
US$24.6 million, or 57%, represents the foreign exchange component and
US$18.2 million, or 43%, the local cost component (see breakdown in Annex
III). Cost estimates were calculated on the basis of the prices prevailing
in September 1976 and include a physical contingency allowance of 10%, and a
price contingency of about 31% of baseline costs. Project costs would be
financed as follows: (a) local expenditures would be covered through
a Government contribution of about US$16.4 million equivalent (US$6.3 million
by BNF, US$2.1 million by the CentraL Bank, and US$8.0 million by the Ministry
of Finance) and a subborrower contribution of about US$1.8 million; (b) the
foreign exchange component would be financed with the proceeds of the proposed
loan, and about US$2.6 million equivalent from a proposed KfW credit. The



- 12 -
proposed loan would be made to the Government for 17 years, including 3.5
years of grace, with interest at 8.2% per annum. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk and would make available the loan proceeds to the
Central Bank for financing the different project components (Section 3.07 of
the Loan Agreement). The KfW credit would be for 30 years, including 10 years
of grace, at an interest rate of 2% per annum. The Government has agreed to
use its best efforts to obtain the KfW loan (Section 3.15 of the Loan Agree-
ment) and has already submitted its formal request to the German Government.
KfW is now processing the Government's request on the basis of the information
contained in the Bank's appraisal report.
Organization and Management
36.       Each project component would be implemented separately by a special-
ized Government agency. As in the first rural development project, the
National Council for Social Progress (CNPS), an interministerial committee,
would coordinate the operations of the various agencies involved in the proj-
ect both at the national and field levels. CNPS would employ a project coor-
dinator who would be stationed in Asuncion and would be responsible for the
overall project. It would also appoint, not later than August 31, 1977, a
deputy coordinator, to oversee project activities at the field level. He
would report directly to the project coordinator in Asuncion (Section 3.04
of the Loan Agreement). CNPS would also establish a project monitoring and
evaluation system. This would be developed from data accumulated by partic-
ipating agencies and the reports of field technicians.
37.       The farm credit program would be administered by the National Devel-
opment Bank (BNF) with the technical support of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MAG). MAG extension agents would be responsible for assisting farmers in:
(a) improving their crop production and animal health techniques; (b) obtain-
ing vaccines and carrying out inoculations of cattle financed with the proceeds
of the loan; and (c) helping BNF's technicians prepare farm plans.
38.       The Mlinistry of Public Works and Communications, through its Highways
Department, would be responsible for the execution of the road component and
for the construction of the community centers. Consultants contracted under an
ongoing Preinvestment Studies Project (Cr. 587-PA) would provide the Highways
Department with a complete service for route selection, design, planning and
costing. Consultants would be retained under the proposed project to assist
in the supervision of new construction. The community centers would be
constructed by private contractors and would be made available to the project
coordinating unit during the project implementation phase. Thereafter, the
Government would transfer the facilities to the appropriate agencies for
maintenance and ultimate use.
39.       The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare would administer the
health program. It would be responsible for supervising the design and con-
struction of the health facilities, which would be carried out by contrac-
tors. The program of health services would be administered through that
Ministry's regional office in Encarnacion.



- 13 -
40.       The Institute of Rural Welfare (IBR) would be responsible for carry-
ing out a land demarcation and titling program. This would be a critical
aspect of the project because about 90% of farm families in Zone B do not have
land titles and would therefore be ineligible to obtain credit from BNF.
Therefore, assurances were obtained that IBR would grant, not later than
November 30, 1977, at least 440 titles in Zone B of the project, and would
thereafter meet specified annual quotas. In addition, IBR agreed to clearly
define lot boundaries before titles are granted, and to grant "certificates
of intent to issue titles" for periods of up to six months to farmers upon
payment of 10% of the value of their land purchase (Section 3.10 of the Loan
Agreement). IBR sells available land on existing settlements at about a 6,000
(about US$48) per ha, payable over a five to fifteen year period, depending on
the repayment capacity of the prospective settler. Interest charged on the
outstanding balances is 8% per annum.
Terms and Relending Channel for the Credit Program
41.       The Central Bank of Paraguay would rediscount 62% of subloans made
by the National Development Bank (BNF), 47% from the project funds allocated
to finance the credit program and 15% from its own resources. The rediscount
rate would be 7% per annum, approximately equivalent to the blended cost of
IBRD and KfW funds.
42.       Interest rates on subloans would be at least 13% per annum.    This
rate is positive in real terms and is likely to remain so in the near future,
given Paraguay's record of price stability. Subloans for incremental working
capital would have a maximum maturity of one year, and for investments, five
to ten years, including a maximum grace period of three years. Subborrowers
would finance at least 10% of the investment cost of each farm plan. The
maximum subloan amount would be the equivalent of US$50,000, and the aggregate
of subloans to farmers with more than 50 ha would be subject to a ceiling of
US$1 million. BNF would accept either a certificate of ownership from IBR or
a formal land title as part of the collateral for an investment subloan. BNF
has undertaken to make subloans on the terms and conditions set out above
(Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement).
43.       BNF would appoint initially 8, and eventually 16, technicians to
implement the credit program. These technicians, working individually or in
combination with 16 technicians from the Ministry of Agriculture, would assist
farmers in preparing subloan applications based on farm plans. Plans would
include an investment schedule, income, expense, and cash flow projections,
and an indication of financial viability. The applications would be submitted
to BNF for determining creditworthiness and legal requirements and would be
approved by BNF and by the deputy coordinator. During implementation of the
plans, the Ministry of Agriculture's extensionists and BNF's technicians would
provide technical assistance to farmers. To carry out this task, they would
be assisted by an internationally-recruited farm management specialist.
Collection of subloan repayments would be the responsibility of BNF.



- 14 -
44.       BNF is a government-owned autonomous entity under the authority of
the Ministry of Finance. It was established in 1961 as a multipurpose develop-
ment bank to finance programs and projects in agriculture, livestock, forestry,
industry and commerce. BNF has three independent lending departments, each
with separate financial resources and accounts, and a supporting Department
of Administration. The three lending departments are: (a) the Development
Department, which holds about 27% of BNF's portfolio, and is responsible for
industrial, agroindustrial and some livestock operations financed mainly with
long-term concessionary funds from bilateral and multilateral sources; (b) the
Agricultural Department which holds 60% of BNF's total portfolio, and performs
the role of an agricultural development bank; and (c) the Commercial Depart-
ment, which holds 13% of BNF's portfolio, and is responsible mainly for short-
term commercial loans financed with resources from sight and savings deposits.
As of December 31, 1976, only 60% of BNF's total assets (estimated at ¢ 18.3
billion) generated income; its arrears were equivalent to 22% of its loan port-
folio (of about ¢ 14.3 billion), and its provisions for accumulated bad debts
were equivalent to about 13% of its total portfolio; and its equity base
was too small to sustain a relatively large lending program. A comprehensive
plan of action was therefore needed to enable the institution to satisfactorily
perform its development functions.
45.       To strengthen its financial position and structure, BNF must:
(i) broaden its capital base; (ii) intensify its debt recovery efforts;
(iii) increase its revenues and reduce its operating costs; and (iv) minimize
its exposure under risky programs. In addition, BtNF must undertake an institu-
tional reform program to improve its overall resource management capability,
including the programming and budgeting of its operations. Consistent with
these requirements, assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) the
Government would subscribe and pay for BNF capital stock not less than I 1,300
million (US$10.3 million) prior to loan effectiveness (Sections 3.09 and
6.01(d) of the Loan Agreement); (b) not later than December 31, 1978, BNF
would reduce, and thereafter maintain, its operating costs to a level not
exceeding 5.4% of its outstanding portfolio in the corresponding year, or such
other ratio as the Bank and BNF may agree upon (Section 3.04, Project Agree-
ment); (c) starting September 1, 1977, BNF would establish interest rates and
financial charges on loans made by the Agriculture and Development Departments,
which would yield an average of at least 13% per annum (Section 4.05, Project
Agreement); (d) BNF would establish an office of financial management, program-
ming and budgeting with such staff, facilities and resources as required in
light of the UNDP-financed technical assistance program (Section 3.02, Project
Agreement); (e) BNF would carry out a debt recovery plan, adopted by its
management council on April 5, 1977 (Section 3.03, Project Agreement); (f) BNF
would at all times maintain a liquidity ratio of 1.1:1 (Section 4.03, Project
Agreement); and (g) BNF would maintain a debt equity ratio of 8:1 (Section
4.08, Project Agreement). The latter three assurances modify the targets set
out in the Project Agreement for the Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development
Project.



- 15 -
46.       With the assistance of the Bank and a UNDP-financed consultant,
BNF has also prepared an institutional rehabilitation plan designed to:
(a) create the capability, within the office of the President, to manage
the institution's financial resources and improve its overall programming,
budgeting and general resource allocation activities; (b) improve its
decision-making process and the efficiency of its lending operations by
providing management with the necessary operational, financial and cost
accounting information; (c) improve the Agricultural Department's capability
to program its annual operations, develop its long-term financial and oper-
ational programs, and assess the costs and benefits of alternative program
options, including sources of finance; and (d) improve BNF's manpower and
personnel training capabilities. To help BNF implement this plan, the United
Nations Development Program has agreed, in principle, to finance the neces-
sary technical assistance. The Bank would act as executing agency for the
UNDP technical assistance program.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Goods and services financed with the proceeds of the proposed loan
would be procured as follows: (a) as is usual in agricultural credit projects,
farmers would procure farm inputs (US$11.0 million) through normal commercial
channels because the size and timing of individual purchases would not be
suitable for international competitive bidding--there are sufficient suppliers
of these inputs in Paraguay to ensure competitive prices; (b) contracts for
the construction of all-weather roads (US$4.8 million), for the purchase of
equipment (US$1.53 million) and vehicles (US$0.31 million) would be awarded
through international competitive bidding; (c) contracts for the construction
of health facilities and community centers (US$1.33 million), including
furniture and equipment (US$0.36 million), would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding; and (d) Civil works for earth roads (US$5.0
million) would be carried out by force account provided the Ministry of
Public Works has sufficient technical staff to undertake such works (para. C,
Schedule 4, Loan Agreement).
48.       Subloan commitments would extend over three years, and Bank dis-
bursements over three and one-half years. Bank disbursements would cover:
66% of expenditures on civil works, training, administration, operation and
maintenance; 100% of foreign expenditures on vehicles, equipment and consul-
ting services; and 47% of subloan disbursements under the BNF credit program.
49.       The Bank would disburse against statements of expenditures in the
case of subloans. The documentation for such expenditures would not be sub-
mitted to the Bank for review, but would be retained by BNF and made available
for inspection during the course of supervision. For all other items of expen-
diture, the Bank would disburse against prior receipt of full documentation.



- 16 -
Economic Benefits and Risks
50.       The project would help to diffuse technologies already tested in
Paraguay but which are not readily accessible to small farmers. At full
development, the incremental production generated by the project would be
equivalent to 24% of the 1975 wheat production, 10% of soybeans, and about 2%
of beans, cassava and maize production. The relative increase in sunflower
production would be substantial, although in absolute terms it would be small
because it is a relatively new crop.    Given Paraguay's comparative advantage
in the production of oil seeds, it is likely that soybeans and sunflower seeds
would be exported. The incremental production of cereals would be consumed
domestically.
51.       The social and economic benefits of the proposed project are likely
to exceed the quantifiable magnitudes by a large margin because the rates of
return include the investment costs but exclude the benefits derived from the
social infrastructure and services in the project area. The Project will
provide the basis for developing a large area which has a great potential for
increasing food production in Paraguay. It would also enable the Government
to intensify its efforts in support of low-income farmers, particularly in
land settlements, and thus deal directly with problems of rural poverty. An
estimated 12,000 families (about 60,000 people) would benefit from the proposed
investments at a cost of about US$2,200 per farm family. The project's overall
rate of return to the economy is estimated at 14%. The financial rate of
return to farmers is estimated at 29% for farmers with 20 ha units and 19% for
farmers with 40 ha units.
52.        In addition, the project would have a significant institution-
building impact. First, it would strengthen the BNF as a farm credit institu-
tion and improve the financial health of its agricultural department. Second,
it would strengthen the role of the National Council for Social Progress in
the planning and coordination of rural development activities. Third, it
would help improve the land tenure structure as a result of the implementation
of the retitling program on the 200,000 ha of recently expropriated land.
53.       The project shares the risks ordinarily associated with similar
programs of land settlement and development. Possible sources of difficulty
for project implementation include (a) that BNF's institution-building efforts
may not fully succeed in restoring its financial viability and (b) delays
arising in the process of interagency coordination and in mobilizing settlers'
response. While the materialization of the first possibility would lessen the
overall impact of the project, it is not likely to hinder project execution,
given BNF's demonstrated ability to carry out externally financed projects in
a satisfactory manner. Moreover, past experience with regard to the second
possibility is encouraging.
54.       The supervised credit component of the project is not expected to
have any long-term adverse environmental effects. While land erosion may
increase as forest is converted to crops, preventive measures would be taken



- 17 -
to keep it to a minimum. Forest cover from land near water sources or from
sloping land would not be removed, and farmers would be encouraged to retain
woodlots on their farms to supply firewood and construction material and to
replace cut trees. Project technicians would oversee this aspect of the
project and would also ensure the proper use of chemicals, such as pesticides
or herbicides, in the farming system (Section 3.16, Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BNF, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's
Articles of Agreement and the draft resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV. The following additional conditions of effectiveness have been
included:
(i) that BNF shall have adopted a manual for debt collection,
and that the measures required to carry out the debt recovery
plan are being taken (Section 6.01(c), Loan Agreement); and
(ii) that BNF has received the ¢ 1,300 million in additional equity
funds, as referred to in paragraph 45 above.
57.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART IV - RECON1ENDATION
58.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. tlcNamara
President
Attachments
April 27, 1977






ANNE I
TABLE 3A                                    fiW   I-f 4 pages
PARAGUAY             - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA ITHNOU KM2                    ------------                  -------------
---------------                      ~~~~~PARAGUAY                          REFERENCE COUN~TRIES (1973)
TOTAL       406.5                                         MOST RECENT                                                    -
AGRIC.      161.5                        1963       1970    ESTIMATE           HONDURAS       EL SALVADOR     COSTA RICA-
--   - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -      - - -  - - -     - - - -  - -  -  - - - -  -
GNP PER CAPITA IUSS                        220.0     35C.C       570.0               250.0      330l. 0      560.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, PILLICN)              1.7        2.2        2.6                 2 .5         3.4         1.7
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          4.0        6.0        6.0                2 2. 0     160.0         34.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          12.0       14.0       16.0                  ...                  1036.0
VITAL STATISTIC.S
AVERAGE BIRTH PATE I/TlHCU)           144.7       41.8       39.8                51.5         h6.i        41.1
AVEPAGE DEATH RATA I/THOU)             14.7       10.p        8.9                19.1        114.3        8.3
INFANIT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           a        93.8       84.OA                 .         66.6        b.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 1-IATH (YES)           *       59.0       62. O               49.4         5b.9        65.4
GROSS PEPROOUCTIJN! PATF                           3.2        3.2                 3.4          ..3.4
FCPULATICN GROWTH- RATF (9)2.*                        .5         72./                            3.33
TOTAL                                   22          .*        27                   .7a        3 
UPReAN                                  3.3)       3.4        3.1                 7.9q7        3.3         4.7
URFI13AN PO PUL A TION IA4 CE ICT AL)I   36.0       3 6.0      37,0                3 2. 0      39.0         46.0
A GE S TAUCTU RE I PEPC E NT I
C  C1.YlS                      4 5.9/     46.:4      44.9                46.1        46.2         49.0
IS TO 64 YEARS                         50C,:      50.4       51.1                5 0.9       50.4        48.0
65 YEARS AND OVFz                       3.9 ei     3. 2       4.0                 2. 4        3.4          3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      1. 0/      1.    1. 0  1                  1.0          1.0         1.1 
ECCNOP'IC DEPENDENCY PAT ir               1. 7        1.e        i.50                1.56                    I 16/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTnRS (CUMULATIVE, THOU) I.                     .        15. 9               20.7          ..         35. 5
USErS (St OP aAREIED WCMEN)              .           .         .
FM FLCYM EN T
TOTAL LAVCR FOFCE (THCUSAND)            9S50.C     70o.C      810.0               H)0.0           .        540.0
LAPOR FORCE IN AC.RP(CULTURE (9          56. C      5 3.0      4 9.01              6 3;. 3                  43.0
UNEMPLOYED I9 CF LABOCR FnPCE)              .3. 5                                    R. 0                    5 .I /b
INCOME CISTRIBUTICN
V OF PRIVATE INCOME 8E '1) Biy-
HIGHFST   5E OF HCiJUSIHOLOS             ..        0.3          .                20.0/c         .         2 3. 0
HIGHEST 20% CF H,JUSFHOLOS               ..       62. C        ..                A 1.0 /c                 50.4
LCMEST   239 OF HOIISEIOLCS               .        4.0         .                   . 5 Th                  5 .4
LOWEST   409 OF HOUjSEHOLDS                                                       d .  . 4T 7    .        14.6
DISTRIAUTICN CF~ LAND CWNERSHIP
9 OIWNED BY TIIP [US 'IF O,WNERS            .
% OWNJEO BYV S4ALLEST ICY CWNERS            .          .          .
HEALTH AND NUTO IT INN
POPULATION PEP PHYSICIAN                   ..     2340.0/a   2190.0,             3113J.30/A  4 03 0.0     [630.0
POPUL AT IOCN PER NURSINE PEPSON           .      23iu.07i   zo090. i 4,b             -.-     963. 0      1490. 0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RFD             4230.0/    620.0      6I0.07              57C.0       523.0        250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLy nr -
CALORIES I9 OF REQUIREmENTS)          112.C      1 2 1.0    118. 0               9 6. 0      8 7. 0      1 10 .0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                16.C       14.0       73.OZ,              5 8.0       43.0        t63. 0
-nF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           4C . O/    41.0 LI                        2 5.3       10. 0        3 5.3
DE ATH R A TE I /T HOU) A GE S 1 -4         .        6.9         3.2/L              10. 0        1. 0        6.0
EDUCATION
ADJLSTEn ENROLLMENT RATIC
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         101.0      107.0      107.O               86.0        78.0        108.)
SECONnARY SCHOOL                       10.0       11.0        1 7.O              1 0.0J      23.0         28.0
YEARS nF SCHOOLING PPOVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND) LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0                12.3        12.0         11.0
VOCATiONAL ENROLLMENT
It OF SECONDARY)                        7. C       6.0        6:01               18.0        31.U         bO.U
ADULT LITERACY PATE (%)                    .        79.0        81.0                  .         58.0        89.0
HOUSI(NO
R-E-RSOE-S PER 00O?4 (AvERAGE)             2 .6/a.d                                                           I I .  .  .
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS wITHOUT
PIPED WATEQ Ill                        94 .0        ..          .                  .         84. 0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(9 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   13.0 /a      ...
RURAL DWELLIN4GS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (TI                      1 .2/a       ..
CCNSU MPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THCU POP)           6 3 .0     71 .0      68 .0               57. 0        8 5.0       71.U
PASSENGER CARS (PER T1--CU POP)           2 .0       1.C        7. 0                5.30        6.o0        23 .0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PEP CAP)             55.0       91.0      106.0               127.0        190.0       591.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 C.7        1. 7        I1.8                1.1         3. 7        6.6
SEE NOTFS AND DEFINITICNS ON REVERSE



SOTES                                         F~~~~~~~~~~~~age 2 of Is peges
Unlee. otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to anY yea&r between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 196 and 1970, and for Most Decent Estizate between
1973 end 1975.
a Due to aigratimn, the growth rate is lower than the rate of nAtUral inCreas.
SeCosta Ria hee bea selected as an objective countn alonce it hae eilalar resource baean and populatise size as Paraguay, and has attained mach
higher standards of social developmient and econonic growth.
FAALaux   1960    /    1962;    /b  Including sedicoal centers;      ac  1961-63;     /d  Total, urban end rural.-
1970 /a Coverage of data unknown.
MIST £0317 ZSflETZg        La  Includlng aidwives;      &   1972;     ae  197;;     Ld  RAtio of population under 15 and 65 end over to
total labor force.
HOKURAS         121     /a   Largely due to ezigration since 19169 of El Selvedoreaals resident in Honduras, population growth rate is lower than the
rate of natural increase;       &  Ratio of population unxder 15 end 65 and over to total labor Tone;          ae  196748
populatim;      /d  Regiatsred, not all practicing in the country.
COSTA RICA      1910    /a   Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;         lb  Open unesployeent.
PRS. lipril 27, 1977
Dir INITIONS OF 30CIAL IND7ICATORS
Land Area (thou lee)                                                                    kiljtio. erj n_urin  purue    Population d-vided by esabor of pr-t-iuuig
Total1   Tot.al srface c-pr-sng lend are      and inland waer.Ial                           and (culi gr-d-ste n-ur,       trained  tor  ce-tfltld`uss       and
Agrin. -Most re-e     autunate of agricultural area used tenperanily or               auniliary persnne    with training or u-pel-r-nn
Pernacestly for crops, pastures, narknt & bituhen gardens or in lie              ponuMlotuss  ~norhopialbe    - PupIlotion divided by musher of bsspitol buds
falow,                                                                             available so public -rd pnilato gc--1a and speoialiocd hospital and
rehobilstatius une      e- ulud-s -unuig hoe and e-toblisinects fat
GNP per uppita (US9) - CNP Per capita esuatet       at current narket prine            custodial and prevetion care.
naln1lted by...s       . .i 'o    nehud an World lank Atlas (1973-71             Per rapS ct sn-gsiy o~f caltpritsd(7. ufnergy
basis), 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                  equinuient of nut fuod uupplie-    --o'.ble in costry per -.pit. per day:
available -opplinscupns       d-notic production, inports less e-ports,
Population and eta      ttscsand                                                            bscdo3 in 'rok, eat suppl-n -ucldo actual feed, soada, quan.ti-
Ppoplation (old-yr. nillius) - An of July for,t:      if not aniloble,                 tins usd se food pr--ouig an] lu.u; in diutnibotion.          aoreet
acetate of too e-d-y-or -t-rsaes, 19il, 1970 and 1975 data,                        were euttuased by FAl hosed on phyciulogica1 nee ds fun a-ea       an.tinity
and hn-lth , -idon-g oaian          u1ton,penature, body weight.. age and
Population denue - per usar-      In   Mid-yea   popalation per equar    kilo-        seu duntrahu.tions of populatiu..   urdi aIlaing 10%. foe caste at hue
nerer (00 hsoutars) of tucal area,                                                 bell I(n..o
.purl.tien denity - per 550ame by of ognl-      Isod - Computnd as shone fur        Par cap-tsusyj       igocn(g'n          os'df      Pra-in -otest of per
agIutrlland on ly.                                                          capuna net supply of food per day, not supply of fond is defined as
above. -oquicco-tu for all t-ntiec establiuhed by USDA iEo-umic
Pita1 statistets                                                                       Resoarch Services pronide foe a nisnt-     alleseonne of iS gr-- of tote)
frude birth rate per choesond, ana        -Annoa1 lion births per thousan d            pr-tu- pee day. and 20 grace of aninal and pulse protein, of ubich
of   id-ynar pupolatton; to-you     arithnti. Icaaan      nding in 196i0 and         10 g-ve cho-ld ho c tinal pro-nin    thus a sad-d.sd   ar  lacr than those
1970, and fiu-py-r aunt-ge -nd-e      i  1975 fur cost --tc en i.tin   ..            of 75 grau.. of tatal p-at-s   dud 23 grans of nant-1 pr.otIn as so
Crude death rote per thousand,    ena     A -.Annal deaths pen thousand of rid-         seerga 'c- the acrId, pru1us3ed up VA'' in the Third World Feud Su-cy
pour popuILain    le-er     -rtetic avergesenuding in 1960 and 197i -ci            PCLKgs7gt.g-utts- supply tr-n astra1 a- pulse - P,OLniu nupyyl       cIF tend
sec-your avaago t-ding un 1975 fur oust recet ectusate.                             derir-d Fr's -ein-l    a.d ph'1 cc' ii f-al  per-d
Iefn f.ce...casty rate (/thoul - Annual deaths If inf.na. nndsr,,t-u yoar uf        DaOlth t      '1' m,-, ang-  1-4h  A...nol deaths per thoucand Lu ago group
age ynr theusand I see hurths                                 ~~~1-4 yas-o, to  bsId-ee -v thtu age group,..sggectad as an indictutr of
Life ecoeclanu    atE birth (yrc) - Avrerge nonber If ye.ar of life renaminig          nal-tritl"c.
at hlrth, usually flue-year averges ending in 196i, 1907 and 1975 fen
developingu..untries.                                                             iduatin
Irons renp-d-tion rote - Aeerage mushe      of live doughter      coa   sill         Adlooted nuoll.1 cetrto        rraosho           ErOll-ne   of all ugesa
bear in her norua   reproduction period if she eaperu--e       reen                 pe  -rcenag o pri-aro   -ulu-a1gc population, ielud-s children aged
specific fertility rates, usua.lly flee-year avergage   coding tc 19h6             6-ll y.a...      djrd      r  Jtff-r-v   lghs of pri-ury od-etiun,
1971 end 197   fur d.neloping counties.fur _-cutri'                                                wLh t_--rsl od..anu. ti     ea.rol.e.t nay -eoed 1007.
poplation growth rate (7.) - total - fonpo...d annual1 grouch rates of nid-            -no-   tsr'   pslc ire-alo    i   bov   to, uff-nial ucho1 age.
year populat-     fer 1950-il, 19h0-70 and 1907-75.                               MVsO      nuletratio-sucu_sdyyschol - tCuputed au abov,
Population growth rate (7. - orhan - fCeputed like grot       roeo      oa                ode     ulcisnrqursatIat Luau your., of apprseed pric-ry
population; different definitions of urban oe.. nay affect cenpara-                   --atrasie:, prav-d- g-era1, voainlor tea-he             training
bi lity oftdata -nog countres..                                                     inutrt-t-en. fur pcpilc eC 12 to 17 yoru of ago;       -aruspandouce
urbat   Poop.atiun 1% af total) - gat.   of arhon in tois1 pupulanion,                 -oau-    ana ga-ra ly -urided.
different definitions uf urban -r-      nay  ffe-t   -oprahilitry of data        Y-aso      csolppuie           (is     n    ecn     ees    - Tuta1 years of
anageonetrias                                                                       suhouling, at se-nedary 1LInul -u-va,t     l   -tutrutinun nay be put-
ic   srutue    (percen t) - Children (0-14 y-ure, sucking-age (15-h4 years),           tiulty or Lorpletely -u1lded.
and rotired (i5 yearn and oven) an percentages of aid-year populoto.              Voatioa.ntloni(. fseVdn                     -...ctiona1 i-stitutionc
Aedepend_eny ratie -Ratio at populati-on nder 15 and 65 and over in                  includo technical. ind-t-r    1 or other progress which    petate
these of ags       h torugh 64.                                                     u-depe-d-ciLy ar as dup-tItos of senoday institutions.
lunmc dependony ratiu - Ratio of pepulation under 15 end h5 ond over          Adult literony rate (7.) - Litonato a3,4ts (able in read aud write) an
to the laho'r forc  in age greup 15-hi years                                        peru-tag   at total adult poyrluti-s aged 15 years and over.
panily planning - auentuns (-anlative,thon) - Canulotive n-ber of
an-ptrar of birth-onnt-l devices undue aus pices of national fesily               Sos11
planning progran since inception.,                                                Per-oa, pru Ec-    (urban) - Ac-rago   -bnhr of porsunn per roan te
tangly planning - users (7. of noeied waned     - Percen.tages ef narried              -.c.pied -eo-ntionnl deellings in urban areas , dwellings e-clude
caeno  of uhild-be-ing age (15-i4 years) who us      birth-control devites          non-peonanent etuttsad cun-apted parts.
to al  married wame. in sane age group.                                         Oc-apied dwellings wunh-r Ppied wtr           - Occpied -n-anctiona
d.0elltnga in urban and rural areas without inside or nutside piped
Enplov,c-t                                                                             water facilities us percntae, uf all ucoopied dwellings.
Total laohr force (thussend) - E-noically active person, inuluding                   Access to eleuirictiL (.ufalde lig)-C-eev              tiual dwellings
armd forces and    neoployed but encluding bousewiees, studenti, na.,                with eleetricity in Ining quarters as percent of tutsl dwellings in
defini,tions in canros counries oe sot       anParahble.                            urban -i ed a-1read.
Labur farce in agniclt_te (.1 - Ag ricultural lake.r feree (in farming,              Rural d-elng      eiotd      oeetiiy(.             C-npoted as above for
frsr,hunting and fishing )as peruentage of total labor f-re.                   rural d-e11tug   only.
iienloe   I7  f 1abr otrturn) - Uneployed are unwally defined as persons
who are able and willing to take a job, out of a jeb onagiven day,                Consenut-i 
rena.med out of a Jub, and seeking work fur . specified nininan period            S      SsI    ti   or   huco)- ill types of reeivere for radio bread-
nor neuneding one week; cay nut be conparable between unun.tries due in             nests to general pablin pee the...uad at populatine, eucludos
dif ferent definitions  ft snmplyeyd and source of data, e.g., enplny-              onliceneed rece.inens in c...ntries and in yearn when regiutnraitu    ef
uenni office snetisticn, sample surveyn, cmpulsoy sne.apleyme        inuant         radio ants   -  us effect, data fe. rveet year     nay nut be comparable
since must cou ntries abu1inhed licensing.
In-m    distribution - Percentage of private incense (both in cash and bled)         !sSS.gs.s.ms_hcrj-Psegrcr                           upiectror
received by richest 57., nine-t 707., poorest 20%, and poorest 407. f,              ..eting Ie.n thee eight per-on. eno.ludes     uunee       heonrues and
households.                                                                         cilitany cehinln.5
Eleectiity    (lwargcr cay) - Annual nuos-rptiu       at industrial, en
Distribution   of laud owerhip - Percentages of land cand by wealthiest                neea,public and prc-ate electricity in kileett h..na pen capita,
107. end peonest 10% of land awnrn.                                                 generlly    u-ed ono pr-dution data, without allowace for lesseee in
grids but allowing for-sports and -p-rts of eleetricity.
Health and nutrition                                                                 Newupnint (hg/yr per cay) - Per capita ... Inua   entanpitun in kilugrs.-
pupolatio   pt    hyian- Popelatius divided by musher cf practicing                    esatsaed fine domestic pruductu.n plus net imports at newsprint.
phsnaequalified from a nedica1 school at ouiversity level.



C  . .,, I0         20 00 |-ot .o CO0          2 0 0 . Oo  oo  ooo  00 , 0   -  2<0 |o  0   O .
D 9 | r o W |- > ol o 9 g 9| F J D W| A X O $I          AI  H  A  0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0A0 0  OID >|° -
.0 ~  ~     . -U       s s 
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  2   t M QA  O  o .0,     , .0 0 0    0.0      00 _  2 .0  .0_  0 p. 0D0D  n
A    >    W    A    1   b  A|_ A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ro,o 00.0  0.000nA | 00l _ HOO. |. - ,Ao-| .9@ 1-~r 
I'         0          02 0    00                          a1 0<<0 0 .   0 2   * 0   2 2 0  
s1W_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 * _             23  .    00.0 o  n                     a...  3.
blooo  <r  J  X ^>tn   oo4  OH02N   0.0@o  0 s  Hs   0l>00 4  @4l  n HX   -- *s  00W-  [H ww -IH-t
Ois ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0  000  00.0 ! X,,nX-  *  0>n M ° >  ,0 020  -'0s@  to t_   i pcoO mOO'' o x °' 0 'm I.D
.   Os~~~~ 1z=>   -1fD>t   OlAOo>_  Xn  X                                    E~~~~.  ~  ~   C
I ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   l _.  w  >00.0.0w >XMw       >        >  pI-m  ol  @I 1
201.00200 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ l 00  _0  I  olL J.                  *      *o w  .0.0 _ov   b  z  o 
*~~~~~~~20~~ ~  0  I   00      0>                                               00|n>>> r otw_ > " 99 @ 9  >|  |  >
000020~~~~~~                     _s_  @s 1.   000  _00 n__O_nsNw>>_o___ 
.0oO0.0J~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0002.          0 w0.2 v_         osoo Jvc    n_otX _ol~ sS °O  s
00..200,.0| .0W 000                           2co   o _.0- w    _ _o   cw ow  oL h



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Millions of US$)
Actual               Est.                     Projected
1973       1975           1976           1977        1979        1981
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Imports and NFS                                187.0      391.6          449.5          615.2       880.3      1189.7
Itaipu                                                  (44.4)         (59;3)        (128.7)     (143.1)     (161.7)
All others                                   (187.0)    (347.2)       (390.2)        (486.5)     (737.2)    (1028.0)
Exports and NFB                                178.5      263.7          278.6          350.6       501.9       723.4
Itaipu                                                  (11.4)         (22.3)         (41.1)      (49.5)      (55.9)
All others                                   (178.5)    (252.3)        (256.3)       (309.5)     (452.4)     (667.5)
Balance of Goods and NFS                        -8.5     -127.9         -170.9         -264.6      -378.4      -466.3
Itaipu                                                 (-33.0)        (-37.0)        (-87.6)     (-93.6)    (-105.8)
All others                                    (-8.5)    (-94.9)      (-133.9)       (-177.0)    (-284.8)     (-360.5)
Net Factor Payments                             -11.0     -59.3          -37.4          -43.9       -98.5      -163.5
Investment iscome                           (-11.0)     -53.5          -31.7          -41.4       -90.9      -154.8
Itaipu                                               (-39.5)        (-15.6)        (-30.1)     (-70.9)    (-117.3)
All other                                  (-11.0)    (-14.0)        (-16.1)        (-11.3)    (-20.0)     (-37.5)
Labor services (Itaipu)                                  -5.8           -5.7           -2.5        -7.6        -8.7
Net transfers                                    5.7       14.0            4.5            5.0         9.1        11.7
Current Accouct Balance                         -13.8    -173.2         -205.7         -303.5      -467.8      -618.1
(Itaipu)                                           (-78.3)        (-58.3)       (-120.2)    (-172.1)    (-231.8)
Net Private Direct Investment                     8.8      37.7           36.6           45.4        55.5        71.5
Itaipu land purchases                                   (-0.4)         (-1.2)          (2.3)         (-3         (-)
All other                                      (8.8)     (38.1)         (37.8)         (43.1)     (55.5)       (71.5)
Itaips sod Private Mediuo- sod Long-term
Capital (net)                                  13.1      110.4         105.3          247.1       318.6       398.1
Itaipu                                                  (99.4)         (88.4)        (228.8)     (297.3)     (373.2)
All other                                     (13.1)     (11.0)         (16.9)        (18.3)       (21.3)     (24.9)
Disbursements                                    15.2     114.4          114.1          256.6       329.7)      411.0
Itaipu                                                  (99.4)         (88.4)        (228.8)     (297.3)     (373.2)
All other                                     (15.2)     (15.0)         (25.7)         (27.8)     (32.4)      (37.8)
A-orti.ation                                     -2.1      -4.0           -8.8           -9.5       -1P.1       -12.9
Itaipo                                                     (-)             -
All other                                     (-2.1)     (-4.0)         (-8.8)         (-9.5)     (-11.1)     (-12.9)
Other net long-tenm capital                       0.5       16.4          22.3           25.3        32.6        42.0
Trade credits and exchange holdings              12.9      -34.7           21.3          -8.1        -9.4        -11.0
Itaipu                                                 (-28.8)         (28.8)            (-3         (-)         (-2
All other                                     (12.9)     (-5.9)         (-7.5)         (-8.1)      (-9.4)     (-11.0)
Public Medium- and Long-term Capital (net)        5.7       78.0          55.3           65.6       116.2        157.5
Itaipu                                                   (50.5)         (3.0)          (3.2)       (3.6)       (4.0)
All other                                      (5.7)     (27.5)         (52.3)         (62.4)     (112.6)     (153.5)
Disbursements                                    15.4      90.7           73.1           90.8       155.8       216.1
Itaipu (initial capital)                                 (50.5)         (3.0)          (3.2)       (3.6)       (4.0)
All other                                     (15.4)     (40.2)         (70.1)         (87.6)     (152.2)     (212.1)
Amortization                                     -9.7      -12.7          -17.8          -25.2       -39.6       -58.6
ltaipu                                                     (-)            (-3            (-3         C-)         (-)
All other                                     (-9.7)    (-12.7)        (-17.8)        (-25.2)     (-39.6)     (-58.6)
Holdings of gusranies and errors and
omissions                                     -12.3       -4.1             -              -           -
Change in reserves (-= increase)                -14.9      -30.5          -35.1          -71.8       -45.7      -40.0
Actual                                                                  Actual
1973    1975     TM                                                 1973     1974     1975
CRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                     DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed      133.7    152.0    175.6
Public M&LT Loans
IbRD                                  -    12.0               Interest on Public Debt          5.2      5.6      7.0
IDA                           -     4.0    4.0               Repayments on Public Debt        10.2     10.5     13.9
IDB                           -   29.0     0.0               Total Public Debt Service        15.4     16.0     20.9
Governments                35.6    44.9     8.5
Suppliers                   1.3      .6     2.7             Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Financial Institutions      5.9     3.6     2.7
Total Public M&LT Loans      42.8    82.1    29.9               Public Debt Service              8.6      6.7      8.3
Term Structure of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding               Commitments
on Dec. 31, 1976
Disbursed                               Average Interest (7.)            4.8       5.9      3.8
Only              Percent             Average Maturity (years)         16.2     23.1     26.2
Average Grace (years)             4.2      4.8      6.5
EXTERNAL DEBT                                                    Grant Element (7,)               31.5     28.6     46.0
World Bank                21.7                 9.8           IgRD Debt Out. & Disbursed          12.8     15.0     17.6
IDA                       28.7                13.0                as % Public Debt O&D           9.6      9.9     10.0
Other Multilateral        16.0                 7.2              " as 7 Public Debt Service       7.1      9.4      8.6
Governments              100.7                45.5
Suppliers                 30.7                13.9            IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed         25.6     25.4     26.3
Financial Institutions    23.6                10.7                as % Public Debt O&D           19.2     16.7     15.0
Total Public M&LT Debt   221.5               100.0               as % Public Debt Service        2.6      1.9      1.4
not applicable                             e  staff estimte
not available                              - nil or negligible
not available separately                  --  less than half the
but included in total                         smallest unit shown
March 7, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (March 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                        (US$ million)
Credit                                                 Amount (less cancellations) /1
No.       Year   Borrower     Purpose                  Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Six loans and four credits fully disbursed.            21.8      21.4        -
347      1972   Paraguay     Secondary Education        -        5.1       3.2
1037      1974   Paraguay    Livestock IV              10.0       -         4.6
509      1974   Paraguay     Small Farmer Credit &
Rural Development          -     11.0       8.1
1059      1974   Paraguay    Highways IV               14.5        -       11.6
587      1975   Paraguay     Preinvestment Studies      -        4.0       3.9
1252      1976   Paraguay    Vocational Training        4.0       -         3.9
1346/667  1976   Paraguay     Rural Education           8.0      4.0       12.0
Total (net of cancellations)          58.3     45.5
of which has been repaid             7.0      0.7
Total now outstanding                 51.3     44.8
Amount sold                   0.3
of which has been repaid    0.3
Total now held by Bank/IDA            51.3     44.8
Total undisbursed                     28.1     19.2       47.3
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - March 31, 1977
Type of               Amount in US$ million
Year           Obligor            Business           Loan      Equity     Total
1974           FINAP, S.A.        Wood Processing    4.4        1.0        5.4
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                  4.4       1.0         5.4
Total undisbursed                      -         _           -



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
PARAGUAY
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Paraguay
Beneficiary:   National Development Bank (BNF), Ministry of Public Works,
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture and the Institute
of Rural Welfare.
Amount:         US$22.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 17 years, including three and one-half years of
grace, at 8.2% interest per annum.
Relending
Terms:       The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk and make
available the loan proceeds to the Central Bank (CB). The CB
would channel, through a rediscounting procedure, the project
funds allocated to finance the credit program to BNF for on-
lending to farmers for periods of five to ten years, including
a maximum period of grace of three years. The percentage of
subloan amounts rediscounted by CB would be 62%, the rediscount-
ing rate would be 7%, and the interest rate on subloans to
farmers at least 13% per annum.
Project
Description: The project, covering a three-year investment period in the
Itapua area, would support the second stage of the Government's
rural development program. It would consist of: (a) a credit
program to finance on-farm investment and incremental working
capital requirements of low-income farmers in land settlement
areas; (b) construction of 238 kilometers of earth roads and
of about 100 kilometers of all-weather roads; (c) construction
and equipping of eight health posts, two health centers, and
upgrading of two existing health centers, and training of
field technicians; (d) construction, furnishing and equipping
of two community centers; and (e) related technical assistance,
including vehicles and equipment for project coordination,
monitoring and implementation.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Estimated Costs:                                ----Millions of US$----
Local   Foreign    Total
Credit Program              7.9       6.4      14.3
Road Network                3.5       9.1      12.6
Health Centers              0.4       0.7       1.1
Community Centers           0.3       0.5       0.8
Technical Assistance          .8      0.7       1.5
Contingencies               5.3       7.2      12.5
Total                    18.51     24.6      42.8
Financing:           The foreign exchange component of the project would be
financed with a Bank loan of US$22.0 million equivalent
and US$2.6 million from a loan from the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW). The local costs would be financed
with a Government contribution of US$16.4 million, and a
sub-borrower contribution of US$1.8 million.
Estimated
Disbursement:                                 --------US$ Millions--------
FY78    FY79     FY80    FY81
Incremental                 3.0      6.7     7.0      5.3
Cumulative                  3.0      9.7    16.7    22.0
Procurement:         Goods and services financed with the proceeds of the
proposed loan would be procured as follows: (a) as is
usual in agriculture credit projects, farm inputs (US$11.0
million) would be procured through regular commercial
channels; (b) the contracts for the construction of all-
weather roads (US$4.8 million), for the purchase of equip-
ment (US$1.53 million), and for vehicles (US$0.31 million)
would be awarded through international competitive bidding;
(c) contracts for the construction of health facilities and
community centers (US$1.33 million), including their fur-
nishing and equipping (US$0.36 million), would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding; and (d) civil
works for earth roads (US$5.0 million) would be carried out
by force account provided that Ministry of Public Works
contracts sufficient technical staff to carry out such
works.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Rate of Return:      The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 14%.
Consultants:         Consultant services would be retained (a) by MOPC, to
supervise construction of all-weather roads and advise
on improvement and maintenance programs for the road
network, and (b) by MSPBS, to advise on community health
systems.
Appraisal Report:    Paraguay Second Rural Development Project, No. 1448a-PA
Agricultural Projects, Division 1
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
PARAGUAY
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I   -   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project - 11 months.
(b) Agency that prepared project - Government witli FAO/Bank
cooperative program assistance.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank - Marchl 31, 1975.
Date of first Bank mission to consider the project -
September 12, 1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission - September 12, 1976.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations - April 1, 1977.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness - September 30, 1977.
Section II  -   Special Implementation Actions
None.
Section III -   Special Conditions
(a)  The Borrower shall appoint, no later than August 31, 1977,
a deputy coordinator to oversee project activities at the
field level (para. 36).
(b)  The Borrower shall subscribe to BNF's capital stock and pay
at least G 1,300 million (US$10.3 million) prior to loan
effectiveness (para. 45).
(c) The Borrower shall cause IBR to issue land titles to no less
than 440 farmers of Sub-project Area B by November 30, 1977,
and continue thereafter to cause such titles to be issued
according to a schedule agreed upon from time to time with
the Bank (para. 40).
(d) The Borrower shall'use its best efforts to obtain a loan from
the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) to finance part of the
project's credit program (para. 35).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e)  BNF shall carry out a debt recovery plan (para. 45).
(f) BNF slhall reduce by December 31, 1978, and maintain thereafter,
its operating costs to a level not exceeding 5.4% of its
outstanding portfolio in the corresponding years (para. 45).
(g)  BNF slhall charge interest rates and financial charges on loans
made by the Agriculture and Development Departments to obtain
an average yield of at least 13% per annum (para. 45).
(h) The Borrower shall cause the farm development projects to be
designed with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors, including: (i) maintenance of adequate wooded areas
in each lot, and (ii) maintenance of forest areas on water
fronts and sloping land, as required to control erosion
(para. 54).



1~~~                                                               ~~~~            0>\ A5  25 O',P Ati 
25                    57.               56- '.
BOLIVIA  A G                   CO DI CL ERA N*;
ARGEtRGNT                                 INA. o   o o e  ve oa            d ro  
Ocn 0LTO 20ARAA 40                            A   U A Z U
ASUNCI                                                  DprBR AZI
ma                         It 204   0  /etoudrezslu  or S1  a  oll-,n e n to a  onaisc 
ARG i NA   NA         l/ oe toce 6rIl
MILES  81orldPtonka                 Ptesur/pliatea  Ju-,
-URU  *-.C.NTRAL
Ailant,        Para uor~~~~~Sanua
LIAIRAHohnauPARGUA                     2
PA  U I ~ ~  ~   CamncPATETOFIAU ADPOEC RA
- -  ENCARNACIuN~ ~~~~ - -I - Pr - C  are-'-
KILOMETERS                                  -    Department boundaries~~~~~~~~~epouceo  l
Caapi u                         T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o  2     406                          AAondrZ ho'no  l,  ap 4~- Itrainlbudre
v      MILES~~~~~~~~~~MS 10 
NEEMBUC ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wal ank Pa,~ tr  jicio r
-27'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~5                                     na7ARA             UAY27s



