F-TURN  TO  |                                                    RESTRICTED
REFORTS DESK                                                             Report No. PU-96
WITHIN    FRLE COPY
ONE WEEK I
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT,
MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY
June 15, 1972
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY BQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   - Moroccan Dirham (DH) = 100 francs
US$1.00         -  DH 4.66 (as of January 1, 1972)
DH 1            - US$0.21
DH 1,000,000    - US$214i,550
MEASURES AND FW1JIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)           -  0.04 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                 - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)         -  10.8 square feet (sq  ft)
1 hectare (ha)              -  10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (km2)   -  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                 -  0.26 US gallons (gal)
'. cubic meter (m3)         - 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 million cubic meters(KM3)-  811 acre feet (ac-ft)
1 cubic meter per
second (m3/sec)        -  31.5 million cubic meters per year or
22.8 million US gallons per day (Mgd) or
35.4 cubic feet per second (cusecs)
liters per day (l/d)
liters per capita per day (1/cd)
PRIiNCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYIMS USED
REI      - Regie des Exploitations Industrielles
ONEP     - Office National de l'Eau Potable
RAD      - Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite
de Casablanca
RED      - Regie Autoriome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Rabat-Sale
RAK      - Regie Autonome de Distribution d'3au et d'Electricite de Kenitra
SAD      - Societe Marocaine de Distribution d'Eau, de Gaz et d'Electricite,
Rabat-Paris
COMTEC   - Compagnia Tecnica di Progettazione, Rome
SAFEGE   - Societe Anonyme Frangaise d'Etudes et de Gestion, Paris
SENA     - Societe d'Economie et de Math4matiques Appliquees, Paris
TANS     - Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton, New York
FISGAL YEAR
Jan. 1 - Dec. 31



MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CASABLANCA-RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....        ...............  .............. .  i-iii
I. INTRODUCTION         ..................................             1
II. THE SECTOR ..........................   ...............    2
A.   Background . ........................ 0-0 ................   2
B.   Organization and Administration               ................    3
III. THE PROJECT          .. . ..               . . ........... .        4
A.   Description of the Project .....oec..t ...... ..............    4
B.   Cost Estimates ... ... ... .*.,. ..... .....  .....................    5
C.  Construction Schedule .-0- .                    ... . .         7
D.   Amount of Proposed Loan .6*.. .... .......                     7
E.  Procurement ..........      ......................              8
F.   Disbursement      .. .... .o.o. ....................     .    8
G.   Administration of the Project           ...............        9
H.   Ecological Implications .... .... . . . . . . . .  ...... .   .....    9
IV. JUSTIFICATION  ................... ....... ....... ..............  10
Ao  Demand ..               .......... . . ... .*   ... *...... .....   10
B.   AlternativesConsidered ....o .....0    ...........            10
V. THE BENEFICIARY ......................                             12
A.   Structure and Functions ...............             ..        12
B. Audit               ' E E...........'....                       13
C.   Staff and  Management Systems               ........ ..0 ...   14
D.   Accounting System ... .............................   14
This report is based on the findings of Messrs. Williams, Rietveld,
Al-Khafaji, Delvaux and Westmeier, who visited Morocco in September/
October 1971.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                                    Page No.
r,
VI. FINANCES ........ .................. ..                              ....    15
A.    Present Position               .........................    15
B.   Billings ......... $..00... ..... .................. 0........    17
C.   Tariffs .... o......... ...........  .................. 0...    17
D.    Financial Proections and Financing Plan                 .............   19
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..               ..................   22



MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CASABLANCA-RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex
1 Existing Facilities, Water Production
2 Existing Facilities, Water Distribution
3  Technical Details of Project
4 Summary of Cost Estimates and Proposed Allocation of Proposed
Bank Loan
5 Project Cost Estimates - Detailed Cost Estimates
6 Procurement
7 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8 Projected Demand in the Coastal Zone Rabat-Casablanca (including
Distribution Losses)
9 Utilization of Water Resources in the Coastal Zone
10 Economic Analysis
11 REI - General Income Statements 1968-70 (All Activities)
12 REI - Balance Sheets 1967-70 (All Activities)
13 REI/ONEP - Income Statements for All Water Activities -
Actual (1968-70) and Projected (1971-85)
14  REI/ONEP - Cash Flow Statements (Water Activities) - Actual (1968-70)
and Projected (1971-85)
15  REI/ONEP - Balance Sheets (Water Activities Only) - Actual (1967-70)
and Projected (1971-85)
16 Principal Water Tariffs in Towns Served by REI/ONEP
17 REV/ONEP - Sectional Operating Income Statements (Projected) 1971-85:
I - Production (Coastal Zone)



Annex
18  REI/ONEP - Sectional Op3erating Income Statements (Projected) 1971-85:
II - Distribution - Small Coastal Centers and Interior
19 REI/ONEP - Sectional Operating Income Statements (Projected) 1971-85:
III - Production (Interior Cities)
20 Assumptions for Financial Projections
Charts
1 Construction Schedule
2 Production Demand - Forecast and Average Yearly Production Capacity
for the Urban Areas between Casablanca and Kenitra
3 Population and Per Capita Demand
4 REI/ONEP Organization Structure
Maps
1 Morocco - Water Supply Systems
2 Project Area



MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CASABLANCA-RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of the first water supply project,
Morocco, providing bulk water supply for the 120 km long Kenitra-Rabat-Casa-
blanca section of Morocco's Atlantic coast (see Map 2) for which a Bank loan
of US$48 million equivalent is proposed. The proposed lending would be the
Bank's first investment in this sector in Morocco. Existing sources of sup-
ply will meet the needs of the major urban complex of Casablanca only until
1976, and of Rabat-Sale only until 1974.. Because available water resources
in this area are limited to certain major rivers, the rising demand stemming
from rapid urban growth, industrialization and higher living standards can
be met only by a major project for the whole coastal zone. Casablanca and
Rabat-Sale contain between them 87 per cent of the population of the zone,
which is increasing at 5 per cent a year.
ii.       The project is the first stage of a long-term master plan for
water production and distribution in the area, and comprises (a) a large dam
on the Bou Regreg river, 10 km upstream from Rabat, with an intake, tunnel,
pumping station and treatment plant; (b) nearly 90 km of pipeline to Casa-
blanca; (c) rehabilitation and improvement of an existing well field (near
Rabat) and its 136 km coastal pipeline. In addition, the project includes
engineering and management consultants' services and training of local per-
sonnel. The dam is being constructed by the Government through its Public
Works Ministry; the rest of the project will be the responsibility of the
new national water authority. Studies for the corresponding expansion of
the water distribution systems are underway.
iii.      Bulk water supply in this area has until now been mainly provided
by a government agency, Regie des Exploitations Industrielles (REI), but this
service was only one of several major activities -- some highly unprofitable
-- of that authority. REI was further hampered by limited financial and man-
agerial autonomy. It has now been reorganized into a national water author-
ity, Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP), which will concentrate its ef-
forts on bulk water production in the whole country and water distribution
in some parts of the country. However, to permit effective management and
operation of ONEP, consistent with the Government's intention of improving
public enterprises generally in Morocco, more progressive policies will be
adopted for management controls and staffing. Measures to this end are
being studied by the government, and implementation of a program of reforms
is a condition of the proposed Bank loan.



- ii -
iv.       An alternative project, showing a marginally lower estiwated cost,
was investigated; but since it would have utilized water resources available
for agriculture (unlike those of the Bou Regreg) the Government preferred the
present project. As the cost advantage was uncertain, and the alternative
provided a less satisfactory basis for a strong bulk supply authority, the
Bank accepted this preference.
v.        The total estimated cost of the project is US$104.9 million equiv-
alent, including contingencies. Contracts have been, or will be, awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding; materials and equipment re-
quired for this project are not produced in Morocco and therefore no local
preference is needed. No preference will be given to any foreign bidder.
The project is likely to attract only foreign bidders except for some minor
works.
vi.       The estimated foreign exchange cost of the proposed project would
be financed by a Bank loan of US$48 million to ONEP. Part of the project
(about US$6.2 million equivalent) is not eligible for Bank Group financing
since it was not contracted on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding, or else is already financed by USAID (design of the dam). Total lend-
ing would amount to 45.8 per cent of the project cost (excluding the ineli-
gible portions). The balance of cost would be financed from internally
generated funds of ONEP and government grants. Retroactive financing would
amount to US$4.0 million equivalent for expenditure since May 1, 1971 on the
dam and appurtenances, plus design of the treatment and transmission facili-
ties.
vii.      Because the project has a low initial load factor, the Government
wishes to postpone the earning of a financial rate of return of 7% or over
until 1981. It has increased bulk tariffs in the project area by an average
of about 15% as from January 1, 1972, and a further increase would, on pro-
jections, be necessary about 1981 to meet the rate of return requirement men-
tioned above. As part of its campaign to keep living costs down, the Govern-
ment has kept retail water rates unchanged for over 10 years; even before the
recent bulk rate increase, retail rates in the project area had become insuf-
ficient to finance network expansion. An adjustment (of varying amount, de-
pending on locality) in retail tariffs will thus be needed. In centers in
the interior of Morocco, where ONEP is both the production and the distribu-
tion agency, tariffs would require an increase of some 40% merely to cover
operating costs, and will need government subsidy if not increased.  The
Government has agreed to commission a general rate study, to be completed by
December 31, 1973, which would, inter alia, establish real costs of service
and the tariff adjustments required nationally.
viii.     The Government has no option but to proceed with this large invest-
ment if it wishes to avoid serious water shortages and consequential health
hazards in the coastal zone within the next few years. With present retail
water tariffs in Casablanca and Rabat (approximating DH 0.70/M3), unchanged
for the last 10 years, the projected incremental revenues from water sales
provide no measure of the importance to Morocco of avoiding these shortages.
Yet even at these tariffs, which are so low as to cause serious finiancial



- iii -
problems for the distribution agencies and which will have to be raised in
due course in the light of the study referred to above, the rate of discount
which equalizes the streams of revenues and costs attributable to the project
would approximate 6%. This rate would increase to about 10% if the average
retail price of water, following the tariff study, were raised to, say,
DH 1.00/M3, in order to restore the financial position of the distribution
companies. A tariff of this order of magnitude is not expected to influence
the volume of water sales.
ix.       On the basis of the agreements reached, the project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$48 million equivalent for 25 years including a grace period
of about 5 years.






MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CASABLANCA-RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Moroccan Government has applied to the Bank for assistance in
financing the foreign exchange costs of the first stage of the Casablanca-
Rabat Water Supply Project.
1.02      Preparation of the project began in 1967 when the Government re-
quested the UNDP to finance urban water supply studies including:
(i)  A master plan up to the year 2000 for the Atlantic
coastal zone between Casablanca and Kenitra, the
feasibility studies for the first stage of the plan;
and
(ii)  A master plan up to the year 2000 for the remaining
urban centers in Morocco.
UNDP agreed to this request in January 1968. The World Health Organization
(WHO) and Regie des Exploitations Industrielles (REI), the government water
supply authority, were respectively the executing and counterpart agencies,
assisted by consultants, Compagnia Tecnica di Progettazione (COMTEC),
Societe Anonyme Francaise d'Etudes et de Gestion (SAFEGE) and Societe
d'Economie et de Mathematiques Appliquees (SEMA).
1.03      Bank staff carried out a first identification mission to Morocco
in September 1968, and have since followed closely the preparation of the
master plan and the project. In April 1971 a Bank mission including ex-
perts in hydrology and the design of dams reviewed the WHO/UNDP feasibility
study on the first stage of the project. An appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. Williams, Rietveld, Al-Khafaji, Delvaux and Westmeier visited Rabat
in September/October 1971. This report is based on its findings and on in-
formation obtained during various visits from the Moroccan Government, and
its water agencies and consultants, as well as from the UNDP/WHO study.



- 2 -
II. THE SECTOR
A.   Background
2.01      Morocco is bounded by the Mediterranean Sea on the North, the
Atlantic Ocean on the West and the narrow fertile strip of Algeria in the
Northeast; elsewhere the country borders on the Sahara. Morocco's total
land area is about 440,000 km2 (172k000 sq. miles), about four-fifths that
of France, but only about 75,000 kmL is cultivable.
2.02      Morocco's population is estimated to be 15 million, of which about
65% live mainly in the fertile rural areas; urban population is heavily con-
centrated in the six major cities, Casablanca, Rabat-Sale, Marrakech, Fes,
Meknes and Tangier, which have a total population of about 3 million. The
general population growth rate is estimated to be 2.6% annually with an
urban growth rate, including migration from rural areas, of 5%. Since
Morocco's fertile areas are limited, it can be expected that rural migration
to the cities will continue. Per capita Gross Domestic Productioni in 1970
was equivalent to US$200.
2.03      The country is broadly divided into four climatic zones; the coastal
areas, the interior plains, the mountains and the desert. The interior plains
and the coastal zone have a mediterranean climate, with the interior having
greater seasonal and diurnal temperature variations. The summers are hot and
dry. Spring and fall rains are generally feeble and irregular with the main
precipitation concentrated in the few winter months. Because of the seasonal
rainfall, storage - either natural or artificial - is required.
2.04      The development of Morocco's major surface water resources is the
responsibility of the Hydraulic Department of the Ministry of Public Works.
This department also has the important task of allocating the scarce water
tesources between agriculture, which traditionally has had priority, and the
growing needs of urban communities.
2.05      Many urban or village water supply systems date back from the
Middle Age. The medina of Fes in particular, the ancient imperial capital,
enjoys water and sewerage systems in earthenware pipes which were started
in the 11th century. During the French protectorate these ancient systems
were replaced by modern installations. Today Morocco has some 125 piped
water supply systems to wnich most urban middle class and lower middle class
housing is connected. Parts of the medinas and shanty towns have to rely on
public pumps sometimes located at great distances. In villages, water is
still often provided through ancient wells, sometimes modernizecd with a pump.
In the last 10 years investment in additional production and distribution
capacity has been insufficient and, except in the large urban centers, main-
tenance has been poor. Backlogs in water supply exist throughout the coun-
try, but there is little knowledge about their dimensions. At a rough es-
timate, present supply might account for 70-80% of demand in the Rabat-
Casablanca zone and for some 60% in the interior. Organized sewerage systems
exist only in the large cities, but are generally insufficient. Morocco has
no major sewerage treatment facilities.



- 3 -
2.06      The future trends of potable water demand and the resulting invest-
ment required both in the Rabat-Casablanca coastal zone and the rest of Mo-
rocco are being investigated under a UNDP study executed by World Health Or-
ganization (WHO) (see paragraph 1.02). This study will be completed in 1972.
The Government is preparing a national water supply investment program for
its five year plan 1972-1977, mainly on the basis of the WHO study. It is
expected that this program will result in increased investments in the whole
sector, which would eventually eliminate the present deficiencies in supply.
2.07      In the project area, the Atlantic coastal zone, the possibilities
of further exploiting ground water sources are almost exhausted. According-
ly, the Government started construction of the large Bou Regreg dam near
Rabat in 1971, which is to become the major future source of urban water sup-
ply and which, with its treatment and transmission facilities, is by far the
largest single item in the ONEP countrywide 1971-1977 investment program of
about US$170 million.
B.   Organization and Administration
2.08      The structure of the community water supply sector is complex due
to the multiplicity of authorities involved. The largest water production
and transmission organization has hitherto been the Regie des Exploitations
Industrielles (REI) but was recently replaced by Office National de l'Eau
Potable (ONEP), the proposed borrower (para 2.10), a government agency.
REI also had other functions, which will temporarily be continued by ONEP
(see section V). The second most important production and transmission
agency is a private concessionaire, the French Societe Marocaine de Distribu-
tion d'Eau, de Gaz et d'Electricite (SMD), which is the major supplier for
Casablanca. In addition, in several cities including Casablanca, Rabat,
Fes and Tangier, distribution agencies ("autonomous regies") meet part or all
of their needs from their own production facilities.
2.09      Water distribution is performed by the autonomous regies in the
larger cities (above 100,000 inhabitants), and by the municipal or provincial
administrations or REI (until it was replaced by ONEP - see para. 2.10) in the
medium and small centers. REI was the distributor in over 80 of these commu-
nities. The autonomous regies and REI managed their operations more efficient-
ly than the local administrations. In the project area, water distribution re-
sponsibilities have been shared by the local regies of Casablanca, Rabat and
Kenitra 1/ (which also distributed electricity), the municipality of Sale, and
REI (see Annex 2). ONEP and SMD are subordinate to the Ministry of Public
Works, while the Ministry of Interior has control over the other distribution
1/   Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite
de Casablanca - RAD.
Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Rabat - RED.
Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Kenitra - RAK.



- 4 -
agencies; and the policies of the two Ministries have not always been co-ordi-
nated, leading to disputes over alternative courses of action. In rural
zones the development of water supply is shared by the Ministries of Interior
and Agriculture.
2.10      The Government decided to improve the water supply sector organiza-
tion by establishing a new national water authority, ONEP, to take over the
water functions of REI. ONEP was created in April 1972 and will operate and
develop the major water production facilities. Where it now has distribution
functions in centers adjoining cities, it will wherever possible transfer
those responsibilities to the cities. This adjustment should be more effi-
cient and more economical for maintenance and development. However, the oper-
ation and development of water supplies in medium and small communities dis-
tant from any major city will be more effectively handled by ONEP. ONEP is
also scheduled to take over SMD's Casablanca installations in 1977; the SMD
concession was originally granted for 50 years (expiring in 2002), but the
Government has the right to withdraw it after 25 years, on payment of compen-
sation. Between 1972 and 1985, ONEP's share of total supply in the project
area will grow from about 30% to about 90%.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The project is the first stage of the Government's master plan, up
to the year 2000, for bulk water production and distribution in the Atlantic
coastal zone between Casablanca and Kenitra (see Map 2). It will cover the
increasing demand of the urban population in that area for the next ten years
(2.3 million people in 1970 rising to 3.7 million in 1980 and representing
about 20% of Morocco's total population). The project's main elements are
the Bou Regreg dam, where the transmission system (including a treatment
plant) originates, and 90 km of transmission lines to Casablanca. The dam
site is located near Rabat and its reservoir will submerge the small Grou
dam, built in 1969 as a temporary measure to overcome water shortages ex-
pected in Rabat in that year. Construction of the Bou Regreg dam, which is
expected to take three years, was started in June 1971 to prevent water
shortages in the whole zone in 1974-1975.
3.02      The project also includes the rehabilitation of the Fouarat system,
which consists of the Mamora well field near Kenitra, a 136-km pipeline to Casa-
blanca via Rabat, and the Oued Mellah treatment plant near Mohammedia (see An-
nex 1 and Map 2).
A.   Description of the Project
3.03      The project consists of the following principal elements (see also
Annex 3 and Map 2):



- 5-
(i) Bou Regreg Scheme
(a) the first phase of a dam on the Bou Regreg River, down-
stream of its confluence with the Grou River and about
10 km upstream of its mouth at Rabat; the dam will im-
pound a reservoir of 600 million m3 (ultimately 1,500
million m3);
(b) a transmission system consisting of: an intake tower
at the Bou Regreg reservoir, a 3-km tunnel, 2.5 km of
pipeline and a pumping station to convey raw water to
the treatment plant; and an 84-km treated water pipe-
line to Casablanca with an initial capacity of 2.4 m3/
sec (by gravity);
(c)  expansion from 1 m3/sec capacity to 4 m3/sec of an
existing water treatment plant now serving the tem-
porary Grou dam, together with housing and training
facilities for ONEP personnel.
(ii) Fouarat Scheme Rehabilitation (see paragraph 3.02).
(a) relocation of boreholes;
(b) construction of new feeder connections;
(c) miscellaneous works to improve the efficiency of the
system.
(iii) Consultants' Services
(a) the services of engineering and management consultants
for design, construction, supervision, operation, train-
ing and water and sewerage tariff studies. The manage-
ment assistance would cover all aspects of operation,
including accounting, maintenance and organization.
B.   Cost Estimates
3.04      The estimated costs of the project are given in Annexes 4 and 5
and summarized below.



In Di- (mil i.o)     '  If JS3 (mi I 1l))  .i' Toll.
Ittew                         Loecal Foreign Yotal.  [ca3 FOrTiTot1-  Proj, eCo
MEW WORKS
1.  C;vil Works
a) DBoui Re,greg Dam            66      54    120    14.1  11(2    :. y
b) Intake and Tunnel            12      12      214     2.5   2.6,    t'v.0
c) Pumping Station               4       2       6      (*8   0.5      1.3       :1
d) Treatment Plant              12       9      21      2.5   2         I         4.3
e) Pipelines                    52    4LI       98i  1D..')   2.2     Ž1.1      __
2. Equi!pmerlt Su,pply
2.     ,m .S..,
a) 31:,-u Regreg .DJam
Intah]e & Tunnel              4       6      If)    C.X)   1.3      2.1       2.2
b) Pumping Station, Trest-
nment Plant 'i. Pipelinea    15      32      47      3.2     .     .10.1
Sub-Total            19      38      57     4.o    .2    12.'        1-l.(
OLD, .. KS
3.  Reconditioning Fouarat
ytsst n . .                      3.      2       5      o.6   0.5      1.9        1.0
M~d=&EDUS
4.  LandhAcquisition                 22      __      22     4.7     -       5.7       5.L
5.  GInsultants' Services,                                             2
a)  higineerirg                 24      23      47      5.3   1.. 1 l(             ,
b) Managenetit                   1       4       5      0.2  0C.        1.1       1.,
Sub-Tota:l           26      26      52      '.    f.7    11.'
TOTRAL                         214    190    404    h5.9  )            80.8      C)?. 7
C   CorsIttirlgenci es
ay, flysi cai                   21      23      4t      5.2   4.    L1.]           * 6
b) Price                        16      21      37      3.4   4.6       8.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST             2514   235    489    54.5  5o.)!  ThL9r) I.,.
EtH.  Totals may not balance because of rounding.
1/    F'oreign axchange cost of US$.X4 million equivalent not eli.LbL eL
financing.  (See para. 3.10.)
2/    Foreign exchange cost of US$2.3 millionl equivalent not elig:i,.le for
finan ci.ng.  (See para. 3.10)



-7-
3.05      Estimates for the dam are based on the actual unit price contract
for its construction and consultants' estimates of quantities, with the addi-
tion of contingencies as noted below. Estimates for other elements were pre-
pared by the consultants and REI, and are based on current cost data for com-
parable works and similar equipment in Morocco. The estimates for engineering
design are based on actual consultants' contracts; those for supervision of
construction on a cost estimates from ONEP and the Hydraulics Department of
the Ministry of Public Works.
3.06      Physical contingencies range from 10% for the dam and the pipeline
to 30% for reconditioning of the Fouarat Scheme, and are considered sufficient
to absorb possible cost increases from unexpected geological problems and
higher-than-expected basic bid prices. Price contingencies are based on the
expectation of average 3% local and 5% foreign cost increases per year, con-
tinuing the trend of recent years.
3.07      The foreign cost components of the various civil works are esti-
mated to range between 36% and 64%, which takes into account that Morocco is
a net importer of fuel, cement and steel. All normal taxes, totalling approx-
imately DH 73 million (US$15.7 million), are included in the cost estimates
because the Government does not intend to give tax exemptions for the project.
C.   Construction Schedule
3.08      The construction schedule for the project is shown in Chart 1.
Construction of the dam, intake and tunnel is scheduled to permit the reser-
voir to start filling in 1973 before the first heavy rainfall, which normally
occurs in November. The pumping station and treatment plant are planned to
operate at about 50% capacity in 1974, when the temporary Grou pumping station
would be flooded, to meet demand at that time. The pipeline to Casablanca
-e!Pd be construe-ted in two phases:  the first section terminating at Bouznika
(40 km) to be completed in 1975, and the second from Bouznika to Casablanca
(44 km) in 1976. This phasing would permit an increased supply to Casablanca
from 1975 through the rehabilitated Fouarat pipeline from Bouznika to Casa-
blanca.
D.   Amount of Proposed Loan
3.09      A loan of US$48 million equivalent, equal to 45.8% of the total
project cost of US$104.9 million, is proposed in order to finance the esti-
mated foreign exchange cost of:
(i) All civil works (except site preparation and access roads
for the dam) and equipment supply contracts (US$44.1 mil-
lion, including contingencies of US$9.3 million);
(ii) Consultant services for the design, construction and super-
vision of the facilities included in the project and for the
operation of the Borrower's water facilities, together with
the preparation of future water supply and sewerage invest-
ment projects (US$2.8 million including contingencies of
US$0.3 million);



-8-
(iii)  Consultant services for management, including advising on
organization structure, personnel management, accounting,
procurement, maintenance and training; and for studies of
water supply tariffs and, if needed, sewerage tariffs (US$1.1
million including contingencies of US$0.2 million).
3.10      Foreign exchange costs which are not included above for the pro-
posed loan (apart from slight differences caused by rounding estimates)
comprise about US$2.3 million financed by U.S. and French aid, plus US$0.4
million incurred before bidding procedures were agreed with the Bank.
E.   Procurement
3.11      All equipment supply and civil works contracts to be financed from
the proposed loan have been and will continue to be on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding. It is not expected that local firms will be
able to bid successfully for any of the major contracts. However, local
civil works contractors are expected to obtain contracts for housing and
training facilities (amounting to about US$0.8 million) and several sub-
contracts. The equipment and material required for this project, except for
some minor items, are not produced in Morocco, so local preference does not
apply. Although Morocco has an associated relationship with the European
Economic Community, it is prohibited by the declaration of Algeciras from
granting tariff preferences. Annex 6 gives further details on procurement.
3.12      Contracts will have been let prior to consideration of the loan for
construction of the dam and the tunnel, supply of hydromechanical equipment
for intake and tunnel, pumping equipment, and consultants' services. This
advance contracting of some US$35 million was necessary because of the long
time needed to build the dam and to deliver specialized equipment, and the
water shortages expected in 1974. These contracts were all let with the
Bank's approval. Retroactive financing of up to US$4.0 million is proposed,
for expenditures incurred after May 1, 1971. Contracts signed before this
date (mainly for site preparation) were not let on the basis of international
competitive bidding. The Executive Directors were notified of the possibil-
ity of advance contracting beginning with the Monthly Operational Summary of
August 1970. The main contracts awarded have been to Dumez (France) for the
dam, B.V.S. (France) and Waagner-Biro (Austria) for hydromechanical equipment
(dam and intake) and Klein-Schanzlin and Becker (Germany) for pumps.
F.   Disbursement
3.13      It is proposed to disburse the loan as follows:
(i) Civil Works:
47% 1/ of the cost of construction contracts;
1/   The average of the estimated foreign exchange components in the indi-
vidual contracts.



- 9-
(ii) Equipment Supplies:
100% of the CIF cost of imports or 65% of the
cost of equipment procured locally (cost net
of identifiable local taxes);
(iii) Consultant Services:
50% of the cost of engineering consultant serv-
ices and 80% of management consultant services
(the estimated foreign exchange costs) except
those financed by UNDP and USAID.
3.14      Details of the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the loan are
shown in Annex 4 and a quarterly disbursement forecast in Annex 7.
G.   Administration of the Project
3.15      Project administration is shared by ONEP and the Hydraulics Depart-
ment. Supervision of construction of the dam is being, and that of the in-
take tower and the tunnel will be, carried out by the Hydraulics Department,
with minor assistance from consultants Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton,
New York (TAMS) and Societe Anonyme Francaise d'Etudes et de Gestion, Paris
(SAFEGE). A similar arrangement is functioning satisfactorily for supervi-
sion of the construction of the Bank-financed Idriss I dam (Loan 643-MDR).
The Hydraulics Department is experienced and competent in the construction
of dams and hydraulic structures and has at its disposal a team of experts
in dam construction on assignment from Electricite de France.
3.16      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ONEP will engage
competent consultants acceptable to the Bank and upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank for supervision of the construction of the pumping
station, treatment plant and pipelines. ONEP has already invited proposals
from SAFEGE, a firm acceptable to the Bank. The consultant should also
train ONE? staff and gradually transfer part of the supervisory work to
these employees.
H.  Ecological Implications
3.17      The impounding of water behind the Bou Regreg dam is not expected
to have adverse ecological effects on its surroundings. Higher humidity due
to infiltration and evaporation will favor the growth of vegetation and trees
in the immediate vicinity of the reservoir, which would be difficult or even
impossible under present arid conditions, where the river frequently dries up
in the summer months. Approximately 40% of the Bou Regreg basin is covered
with forests, and the government afforestation service is expected to plant
trees on part of the remaining area to reduce erosion.
3.18      Urban, industrial, and agricultural pollution in the basin will be
insignificant in the near future. The only town of significance is Rommani,
approximately 60 km upstream from the dam, with a population of about 4,000
inhabitants. No important industries exist in the basin. The major part of



- 10 -
the basin is mountainous, approximately 20% of its surface forming plateaux
with inclinations of less than 10%. These plateaux are used partly for agri-
culture, and partly for cultivation of cork oak. Little pollution by chemical
fertilizers is expected, because this 10% of the total surface is all that is
suitable for intensive agriculture.
IV. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      The main purpose of the project is to meet long-term water needs in
the Kenitra-Rabat-Casablanca region of Morocco, where population, industry
and tourism are growing the most, and where local resources are almost fully
exploited.
A.   Demand
4.02      The aggregate water requirements (after allowing for network losses)
of the cities and communities in this region are forecast to increase from
102 Mm3 a year in 1971 to 269 Mm3 in 1985, an average annual increase of over
7%. (Annex 8). Since existing sources can furnish only 90 Mm3, rising to
116 Mm3 in 1985, the project must supply the difference, which by 1985 will
be nearly 60% of needs (Annex 9). ONEP's total share of the supply will grow
during this period from about 30% to nearly 90%. Chart 2 depicts these sta-
tistics graphically and Chart 3 compares these trends with those in other
recent Bank water projects.
4.03      Casablanca and Rabat represent about 80% of the water consumption
of the area. Demand projections for Casablanca were based on a 1969 demo-
graphic study by consultants. They assume a 5% population increase annually
until 1985, higher than the 4% rate of increase during 1960-70 because during
that time an exodus of non-Moroccans took place.  Per capita domestic consump-
tion is presently low (only 62 1/cd) and has been almost static during 1967-
70; it is assumed to pick up by 1% annually until 1975 and 2% thereafter.
Industrial consumption is forecast by consultants to increase at 9% annually;
this is consistent with the recent trend and with country economic prospects.
4.04      For Rabat, population is also forecast to increase by 5% annually,
following Ministry of Planning estimates, with per capita domestic consump-
tion increasing by about 1.6% a year. Consumption by other users is assumed
to increase at about the same rate as during 1960-70, namely 6% annually.
Projections for other coastal centers were based on surveys made by REI and
its consultants in 1968, revised in 1971. All projections are reasonable in
view of the probable industrial and tourist expansion in this area, and the
likelihood of continuing rural migration.
B.   Alternatives Considered
4.05      The preparation of this project involved a long and controversial
search for the best technical solution, during which the Bank sent dam and
hydrology experts to Morocco. The Government had long favored the solution



- 11 -
ultimately selected on the ground that it deferred the need to draw upon wa-
ter resources which the Government wishes to reserve for agriculture, even
though this water will not be needed for agriculture for some years.
4.06      After several studies by COMTEC covering some 20 feasible alter-
natives, and complicated by conflicting technical opinions about the loca-
tion and size of the dam, and by divergent cost and yield estimates, the
finally-agreed least-cost solution appeared in the spring of 1971 to lie
between two alternatives:
I.   A large dam on the Bou Regreg and a pipeline to Casa-
blanca (with development of the latter's Oum Er R'Bia
source in the 1990s); or
II.   A small dam at the same site feeding Rabat and the ex-
isting coast pipeline, with Casablanca's immediate
needs being met by increasing the transmission facili-
ties from the Oum Er R'Bia.
These two alternatives were then compared as follows:
Total investment cost discounted at       6%     9%      12%
---million US$---
Alternative  I - Present Value            84     67      55
Alternative II - Present Value            84     63      50
Saving with Alternative II                 0      4       5
4.07      The Bank recommended at that time selection of the second alterna-
tive, but the Government still strongly favored Alternative I for the reason
noted above (para 4.05) and wanted to start construction of the Bou Regreg
dam immediately in view of the long construction period and expected water
shortages in 1974. The Government's alternative was accepted by the Bank
because the additional cost was not found to be so high as to make it unac-
ceptable, especially since this alternative affords a better basis for estab-
lishment of a strong bulk-supply authority, by providing all the additional
water through ONEP's installations.
4.08      The Government has no option but to proceed with this large invest-
ment if it wishes to avoid serious water shortages and consequential health
hazards in the coastal zone within the next few years. With present retail
water tariffs in Casablanca and Rabat (approximating DH 0.70/M3), unchanged
for the last 10 years, the projected incremental revenues from water sales
provide no measure of the importance to Morocco of avoiding these shortages.
Yet even at these tariffs, which are so low as to cause serious financial
problems for the distribution agencies and which will have to be raised in
due course in the light of the study referred to in paragraph 6.09, the rate
of discount which equalizes the streams of revenues and costs attributable
to the project would approximate 6%. This rate would increase to about 1OZ



- 12 -
if the average retail price of water, following the tariff study, were raised
to, say, DR 1.00/M3, in order to restore the financial position of the dis-
tribution companies. A tariff of this order of magnitude (see Annex 10) is
not expected to influence thze volume of water sales.
V. THE BENEFICIARY
5.01      The proposed loan would be made to ONEP, which would apply US$14
million thereof towards the financing of the Bou Regreg dam, which the Gov-
ernment is constructing. To conform to Moroccan policy ownership of the
dam will remain with the Government and the control, utilization, operation
and maintenance will be vested in ONEP.
A.   Structure and Functions
5.02      REI, the agency in charge of bulk water production until it was re-
placed by ONEP, was a "regie" or state-controlled Board, created in 1929. It
was subject to the "tucelle" (operational surveillance arnd control) of the Mit-
istry of Public Works and Communications, and to certain other administrative
and financial controls (see Section B below). The decree creating ONE? to
replace REI was signed in April 1972, but the detailed implementation of the
change will be defined in subsequent legislation.  Enactment of this legisla-
tion would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (see paragraphs
5.07 and 5.10).
5.03      The corporate structure of REI anid tne close supervision under
which its general manager had to operate were not conducive to good manage-
ment. REI was governed by a Board of Management (with a subsidiary Permanent
Committee), comprising the Minister of Public Works as President and repre-
sentatives of other Ministries. The board members tended to act as defenders
of their respective Ministries' viewpoints rather than as a managenent team,
and the management of a public utility enterprise calls for a wider range of
experience than that of a government department. Tne Board of Management of
ONEP (20-members) is even larger than REI's and now also includes two repre-
sentatives of the distribution regies and the seven presidents of the pro-
vincial assemblies.  The new Board's performance and its effect on the manage-
ment will have to be closely followed. REI's chief executive was its Director,
but his powers were subject to external limitations.  The detailed control
by the Ministry of Finance of the decisions by ONEP's Director has been sub-
stantially reduced (paras. 5.07-5.10) and it is understood that the Ministry
of Public Works will also allow more autonomy.
5.04      Provisionally ONEP's functions may be classified as follows:
(i)  Water (see paragraph 5.05 below).  Besides bulk supply in
the project area and elsewhere, ONEP produces and dis-
tributes water for 80 centers.



- 13 -
(ii)  Commercial Services.  These consist mainly of the purchase
of vehicles for government departments and their repair and
maintenance, together with management of fuel vouchers and
insurance. ONEP also administers the car purchase advances
made to civil servants. The commercial services are con-
sistently profitable.
(iii)  Industrial Services.  These comprise the upkeep of port
equipment at Casablanca and two smaller ports, and man-
agement of a pool of heavy equipment for public and
private hire. These services incur heavy losses mainly
due to falling demand and under-utilization.
(iv)  Miscellaneous.  ONEP also runs a ski-lift station, man-
ages the Water Equalization Funds (see paragraph 6.11) and
carries out capital works as agent on behalf of other water
authorities. Until 1969 it also had some minor electricity
functions in small towns.
The government plans to relieve ONEP of non-water activities by the end of
1973. Confirmation of these plans was obtained during negotiations.
5.05      ONEP is a bulk supplier of water to the Atlantic coastal zone and
to Marrakech (see Map 1). In the next two years it is scheduled to under-
take bulk supply of water for a number of other cities including Fes, Meknes
and Tangier. In addition, it produces and distributes water in 80 smaller
centers and operates a small number of municipal systems as agent for the
municipalities ("gerances"). A program of reallocation to other authorities
of some of the smaller distribution centers between 1972 and 1974 has been
established.
B.   Audit
5.06      REI's budget was approved annually by the Board of Management for
submission to the Ministry of Finance (though it did not form part of the
National Budget, except to the extent of any state contributions). This
Ministry maintained close supervision over REI and other agencies through
a system of "a priori" controls (whereby actions were checked before they
occurred rather than audited after they happened).
5.07      These controls were effected by a financial controller for a group
of agencies and an accounting agent attached to each. The agent's duties in-
cluded approval of expenditure and contracts, attendance at bid openings and
board meetings, and co-signature of checks; he was also authorized by the law
to keep a parallel set of accounts, but this was not in force in REI. This
system did not encourage responsible and imaginative management and the ap-
proval procedure caused delays in procurement and payment, as well as in re-
cruitment. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ONEP will have
more financial autonomy to permit flexible and responsible management, by
replacing the present system of financial controls, based on a ministerial
decree, by one requiring less control by the Ministry of Finance. A draft



- 14 -
decree allowing ONEP greater financial autonomy, was discussed d;uring nego-
tiations and its signature by the Minister of Finance is a condition of ef--
fectiveness of the proposed loan. This new decree will be reviewed by the
Government and the Bank before December 31 9 1974 and changed as found neces-
sary.
5.08      There is no internal audit and (since 1956) no external -.udit.  Ass-
surances were obtained that a system of audit by an independent auiitor will
be introduced not later than the end of 1972, both the type of aud4t and the
auditor to be acceptable to the Bank.
C.   Staff and Management Systems
5.09      Chart 4 shows the organization of REI which should be reviewed by
management consultants (see paragraph 5.11) for its adaptability to the new
organization ONEP. In any case, assurances were obtained that a Senior Fi-
nancial Officer with adequate status would be appointed not later than De-
cember 31, 1972, to improve the accounting, billing and financial reporting
procedures and internal financial control.
5.10      ONEP's staff number some 1,600, of whom about 60% are employed for
water operations, 20% on otner activities and 20% are head office staff.
There will be practically no reduction of the head office staff following
loss of non-water functions, because the majority spend most of their time
on matters relating to water. ONEP relies heavily on expatriates, employing
over 60 of them; of the 89 senior staff, 40 are foreign. There are staff
shortages, mainly of engineers, but some overstaffing is believed to exist
at lower levels. Recently-recruited technical staff are adequately trained
but as yet inexperienced. Red tape and low salaries have hindered recruit-
ment (salaries are well below market rates despite a 10.2% increase from
July 1971, and even below levels in other public departments). Assurances
were obtained that ONEP will have a new personnel statute, satisfactory to
the Bank, which will permit ONEP to have a better and more flexible personnel
management and recruitment. Enactment of this new statute would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
5.11      ONEP's administrative efficiency needs improvement.  In particular,
stock management needs attention and the accounting, billing and collecting
systems require overhaul (wee paragraphs 5.14 and 6.07). Assurances were ob-
tained that ONEP will engage massive expert assistance (probably 100-130 man/
months) covering administrative, managerial and operational procedures. An
amount of US$0.9 million equivalent has been included in the proposed loan
for this purpose. ONEP is already studving proposals from qualified con-
sultants.
D.   Accounting System
5.12      ONEP's accounts are on an accrual basis.  They are carefully
kept but in archaic handwritten columnar analysis books. A rented punched
card installation exists but is used only for billing, payroll and motor
pool records: in any case it is obsolete. A computer could be rented for



- 15 -
about 25% higher cost, or if this is not justified when ONEP loses its non-
water activities, a time-sharing arrangement might be concluded with another
authority.
5.13      Two parallel sets of accounts are prepared -- a General Income
Statement for all operations (without distinguishing water supply from other
activities); and Cost Statements showing the net profit or loss on every
activity, service and water center, but without indicating the d.tails of
income and expenditure. It is therefore a laborious task to extract the
detailed costs relating to water, even approximately (though ONEP is taking
some steps to reclassify its accounts in order to remedy this defect). The
balance sheet is likewise global and supporting records are inadequate to
identify all water-related balances.
5.14      The accounting system has become a lifeless and uninformative book-
keeping service and its possibilities as a management tool are being ignored.
Assurances were obtained that:
(i)  as part of the management assistance referred to in
paragraph 5.11, consultants will be engaged to over-
haul the accounting system and to set up cost ac-
counting;
(ii)  the accounting balances relating to water supply will
be clearly identified and segregated;
(iii)  separate accounts will be maintained for the three
main water activities of ONEP (see paragraphs 6.11,
6.12 and 6.13).
VI. FINANCES
6.01      REI's financial performance was obscure, partly because of the
multiplicity of its activities, some profitable and others unprofitable, and
the difficulty of analyzing its accounts from the viewpoint of the separate
activities (see paragraph 5.13). For appraisal, the segregation of water
supply transactions had to be performed by detailed scrutiny of supporting
records, using approximations where these were incomplete. The creation of
ONEP should eliminate this problem, partly because of the planned transfer
of non-water functions to other entities and through general improvement in
its accounting and managerial procedures. Its overall performance in future
will be determined by the new structure and policies which remain to be decid-
ed in detail and to be tested in operation.
A.   Present Position
6.02      Annexes 11 and 12 show REI's General Income Statements 1968-70 and
balance sheets 1967-70 in simplified form. These records represent all REI's
diverse activities (including capital works for other bodies), and only the



- 16 -
net results for each activity are clearly visible, from cost accoutnts.
Annexes 13 to 15 however show an approximate set of water income statements,
cash flow statements and balance sheets for these years.
6.03      The General Income Statements 1968-70 show fluctuating financial
results which the cost accounts break down into a steady profit on "commer-
cial services" (as defined in paragraph 5.04), severe losses on "industrial
services", and a steadily falling surplus on water activities (see Annex 11).
The small surplus on water in 1970 arose however before making a special
provision for doubtful debts which were referred to the Government's Judicial
Agent for collection, with no reported results over a long period. An
analysis made of costs over the nine districts into which REI divided its
water activities, shows disparate personnel expenses, possibly indicating
uneven management. REI did not pay income tax, but was liable to the gener-
al tax on products and services (including supply of water). Any profits
made had to be turned over to the Treasury but losses were carried forward.
Since it is desirable to retain and carry forward an operating surplus for
working capital purposes, paragraph 6.17 refers to assurances obtained on
this matter in respect of ONEP.
6.04      REIt's balance sheets show that fixed assets were provided almost
wholly by government grants and consumerst contributions; there is no long-
term debt. Fixed assets appear at historical cost, save for a revaluation
in 1955 (an arbitrary 30Z overall increase). Depreciation is based on these
values, at fairly high rates (e.g., 3% for pipes, 25% for vehicles). Water
assets were revalued in 1971 to current values by consultants and these
values -- a gross value of DH 336 million, less accumulated depreciation
of DH 182 million at December 31, 1970 -- have been used in projections.
Assurances were obtained that these values will be adopted and updated as
required by ONEP using methods satisfactory to the Bank.
6.05      Private consumers' arrears of water charges are not a serious prob-
lem due to fairly strict recovery procedures. Distribution agencies likewise
pay reasonably promptly, buc government departments owed at the end of 1970
about DH 11 million (out of total water arrears of DH 16 million).  This debt,
representing about 8 months' billings, had been nearly constant for the last
three years and some of it was over 15 years old. Assurances were obtained
that government arrears will be settled not later than December 31, 1974
and a workable basis for proper budgeting and payment established; such a
system already exists for postal and telecommunications charges.
6.06      REI's cash balances were large (representing on average nearly two
years' revenues during 1968-70) but contained government advances for capital
expenditure, including vehicle purchases, for other entities. Because of
this element of agency activity, including the "gerances" and the Water
Equalization Funds (see paragraph 6.111), REI's past balance sheets are not
very informative and supporting statistics are sometimes insufficient to
permit accurate analysis. This problem should disappear, however, when
separate water accounits are introduced following the transfer of functions
to ONEP (see paragraph 5.14).



- 17 -
B.   Billings
6.07      Practically all water consumption is metered and retail consumers
are billed quarterly, but the billing and collecting system could be improv-
ed. For example, meter readings often reach headquarters four months late;
the readers also act as door-to-door collectors, without any periodic switch
of rounds, though the highest-paid earns less than US$1,000 a yeai nlus a
collection bonus limited to US$24 a year. Such a system is open tc irreg-
ularities and clearly undesirable. ONEP's Finance Department plays little
part in collection; consumers' accounts are kept locally with total accounts
at head office. Assurances were obtained that the meter-reading and collec-
tion process will be improved in accordance with the recommendations of the
management consultants (see paragraph 5.11) and placed under Finance Depart-
ment control.
C.   Tariffs
6.08      All water tariffs in Morocco, both bulk and retail, are fixed by
the Minister of Public Works and Communications. Annex 16 lists those now
in force. Where ONEP is the distributor, tariffs do not distinguish between
categories of consumer (though some of the other distribution agencies'
tariffs do so).
Mi) Coastal Zone
6.09      In the Atlantic coastal zone, the government recently raised the
bulk tariff from an average of about DH 0.39/m3 (US4 32/1,000 gals) to a
uniform rate of DH 0.45/m- (USe 37/1,000 gals) for all the cities supplied.
On average this represented a 15% increase in bulk tariffs, but its effect
was very uneven since Casablanca was already paying DH 0.45/m3. On the
other hand, this tariff for certain small towns was as low as DH 0.30/m3.
The effect of the increase (which took effect on January 1, 1972) on
distribution regies depends on the extent to which each city has its own
resources of cheaper water to blend with water purchased in bulk. Under
the circumstances the retail tariffs for domestic supply in the coastal
zone, which now range from DH 0.48/m3 to DH 0.70/m3 (US4 39/1,000 gals to
US4 57/1,000 gals), could not be determined without a thorough study. The
Government proposes to carry out a nationwide rate study at retail 'level,
employing consultants to ascertain adequate rate structures for each town
and class of consumers. Assurances were obtained that the study for the
coastal zone will be completed by June 30, 1973, and for the rest of the
country by December 31, 1973, and that the Government will take all meas-
ures necessary to ensure that retail tariffs are reviewed and adjusted as
necessary to reflect the full cost of production and distribution (including
a reasonable return on production and distribution fixed assets, adequately
valued).
6.10      Hitherto, bulk tariffs in the coastal zone have been complicated
by the use of a group of Water Equalization Funds ("Comptes de Compensation").
These funds or accounts were set up in 1952-53 to spread over a period the
cost of the initial excess capacity of four bulk supply systems -- REI's



- 18 -
coastal Fouarat system, SMD's system supplying Casablanca and two smaller
SMD systems.  Distribution agencies buy water at one set of prices fixed by
Ministerial order, but the bulk supplier receives a different price fixed
by a formula -- higher when a system is new (i.e., when volumes sold are
small and average costs high), but falling gradually as the system comes
into full production. The difference between the prices paid and received
was advanced by the Equalization Fund in the first phase, and reccuped later
as sales built up. No one now knows how the parameters in the formnula were
selected originally, and the basis for the widely-differing bulk purchase
prices hitherto paid by the various distribution agencies is equally unclear;
however, they have all been standardized at a uniform purchase rat:e of DH
0.45/m3 as from January 1, 1972 (see paragraph 6.09).
6.11      REI administered all four funds as an agent of the Government,
using cash advanced by the Government and subsequently repaying it as and
when recouped. As a producer, REI was itself subsidized from the funds up
to 1959; thereafter it began to repay, clearing its balance in 1962. Since
then it continued, under the price formula, to transfer some DH 2 million a
year to the Equalization Fund account. REI subsequently contended that it
should be repaid the 1963-1971 excess contributions; the opposing view was
that there is one global fund, to equalize rates among systems, as well as
over time, and the SMD systems are still in deficit overall. The refund
question is not critical since the Government already provides capital for
ONEP, but assurances were obtained that this section of the fund will be
closed out, so that ONEP will in future retain the full purchase rates
paid by distribution agencies.
(ii) Production/Distribution (Interior)
6.12      In the smaller interior towns where ONEP both produces and distrib-
utes water, tariffs (about DH 0.65/m3) are insufficient even to cover operating
costs and depreciation on revalued assets, and an increase of the order of 40%
would be needed to achieve this. In the Government's view, such an increase
is out of the question. While it may be accepted on other grounds that no re-
muneration of capital should be required, ONEP should initially not be obliged
to carry the losses required to meet the Government's objective, and the Gov-
ernment has agreed to pay ONEP an annual subsidy of DH 5 million, which cor-
responds to the average annual losses of these systems until 1982. ONEP's re-
organization should have resulted by 1982 in higher operating efficiency in
these centers and the remaining losses could be covered by subsidies from
the production operations, or tariff adjustments which would be made at that
time.
(iii) Production (Outside Coastal Zone)
6.13      In the third sub-sector of ONEP's water activities, production
for other distribution agencies outside the Atlantic coastal zone, the only
city supplied at the moment is Marrakech where a low bulk tariff is in force
and retail tariffs are about half those in the coastal zone (bulk tariff
about DH 0.09/m3, retail about DH 0.33/n3).  ONEP however plans a consider-
able expansion in this sub-sector, participating in the supply to several



- 19 -
other large cities (see Annex 20). Estimates of tariff requirements are
conjectural, because of uncertainties about taking over these functions,
investment timing and production volumes. Investment requirements in this
sub-sector could average DH 15 million annually during 1978-85.
(iv) Future Tariffs and Rate of Return
6.14      With its present DH 0.45/mn3 bulk tariff, ONEP's contribution to the
financing of its own expansion during the construction period of the project
(1971-1977) will be only 10% (see paragraph 6.18). ?ending the completion of
the retail tariff study (see paragraph 6.09) it is not possible to determine
whether and to what extent higher tariffs would be reasonable. However, as-
surances were obtained that ONEP will not reduce its tariffs below present
levels and earn an overall rate of return of not less than: 1 percent until
1976; 2 percent for the period 1977-80, and 7 percent thereafter. The above
rates of return imply that, if projections are realized, the coastal bulk
water tariffs remain at DH 0.45/m3 until 1980 and will be raised to DH 0.55/m3
thereafter, that the interior bulk water tariffs will have to be raised to
DH 0.35/m3 in 1975 and to DH 0.44/i3 in 1981 and that the tariffs for small
distribution centers will remain till 1980 at DHI 0.65/m3 and be raised to
DH 0.75/m3 in 1981.  These estimates are based on the assumption that the
bulk supply can, to a certain extent, subsidize the small distribution centers
in the interior.
D.   Financial Projections and Financing Plan
6.15      Projections of income statements for REI/ONEP's water supply func-
tions to 1985 (Annex 13), cash flow and balance sheet projections (Annexes
14 and 15) have been prepared, excluding non-water activities and assuming
that ONEP's large investment program will be financed with the aid of sub-
stantial government grants (see paragraph 6.18). Though the Bou Regreg dam
will become property of the Government as mentioned in paragraph 5.01, it is
treated here as if it were part of ONEP's assets for calculation of the rate
of return since it will be used wholly for production of water for ONEP.
Since all three sub-sectors have dissimilar characteristics and tariffs --
regional bulk supply in the project area, a group of local distribution
systems with a financial deficit, and a group of future bulk supply schemes
for individual cities -- separate Income Statement Projections 1JL;1-85 have
also been prepared (Annexes 17 to 19).
6.16      Annex 20 lists the detailed assumptions for projections.  In addi-
tion to the tariff assumptions described above, the more important of these
are:
(i)  The proposed timetable for transfer of functions between
ONEP and other authorities, expected to be completed by
1974.
(ii)  The planned termination by the Government of the SMD
Casablanca concession in 1977 and the consequent in-
corporation of its assets, liabilities and operations
in ONEP's accounts.



- 20 
(iii) A substantial increase, of some 45%, in ONEP's salary
levels over the nIext few years; and a provision of 3%
a year for inflat4on of most other costs up to 1970.
6.17      These aggregate projections inGicate an improvement iln ONEPfs fi-
nances, slow at first during the 19706 but stimulated by the acquisition
of the SMD concession in 1977 and thereafter gaininig increasing rtoaientum
so that from  1981 onwards its operatinig ratio (i.e., operating CoStS, in-
cluding depreciation, as a proportion of revenues) falls from abou' 100%
now to about 64%.  As indicated earlier, the project comprises lar,e in-
vestments which have a relatively lo'w degree of utilization in the early
years of operation; and, since bulk sales in the project area represent a
large part of ONEP's revenues, this time-lag affects the overall finances
of that entity. After 1977, however, no outside financing is indicated,
except in 1980 and 1981, and increased cash balances begin to appear.  Dis-
posal of any excess cash accumulations will be a matter for discussion be-
tween ONEP, the Government and the Bank. Assurances were obtained that
transfers to the Government will be made only after due provision F'or work-
ing capital and on-going and/or fucure expansion of systel!ts, agreed by the
Government.
6.18      In addition to financing dfrectly what part of the cost: of the dam
not covered by the proposed loan, the Governumient proposes to finarnce the
balance of ONEP's capital needs (DH 320 million), by way of grants.  On this
basis, the financing plan for the project construction period, 1971-77,
would be as follows.  Since the comnpensation payable to S14D on the tennina-
tion of its concession in 1977 cannot be forecast with certainty, no figure
for this has been included in the following firtancial plan.  However, the
expected order of magnitude of t'his compensation would not materially in-
crease ONEP's capital needs and there should be no problem  in finaucing
this cost.



- 21 -
FINANCING PLAN 1971-1977
DH        US$
Million    Million    %
Capital Requirements
Project (Including Management Assistance)           488.9       104.9    66
Other Investments of ONEP                           239.1        51.3    32
Increase in ONEP Working Capital (Other
than Cash)                                         10.9         2.3      1
Increase in ONEP's Cash Balances                     10.2         2.2      1
Total Requirements                       749.1       160.7   100
Capital Sources
Proposed Loan                                       223.6        48.0    30
Government Contributions
Towards ONEP Investments for the Project           81.5        17.5    11
Towards ONEP Other Investments Program            238.5        51.2    32
Towards Dam (Balance of Cost) /1                  119.2        25.6    16
Total Government Contributions           439.2        94.3    59
Internal Cash Generated by ONEP
(including Distribution Subsidy)
Less:  Debt Service                                76.3        16.3      6
Consumer Contributions                               10.0         2.1      1
Total Sources                             749.1      160.7   100
/1   Total cost of dam DH 184.4 million less DII 65.2 million financed by ONEP
out of proposed loan. Towards the balance of DH 119.2 million, bilateral
aid of some DH 11 million has been made available by USAID and France.
6.19      Total requirements are thus expected to be financed 307 from borrow-
ing, 59% from government budgetary resources and 10% from internal cash gen-
eration by ONEP. Assurances were obtained that any cost overruns will be met
by the Government.  The Government will receive production taxes and duties
imposed on imported goods (about DH 73 million for the project and perhaps
DH 25 million on other capital works), and tax on increased water sales (some
DH 12 million). Net of taxes received, its share of the cost would thus be
about DH 329 million (44%).
6.20      The terms assumed for the Bank loan are a period of 25 years in-
cluding about 5 years' grace, with interest at 7-1/4%.



- 22 -
6.21      Although ONEP's debt burden is expected to remain small (the debt/
equity ratio not exceeding 29:71 during 1971-85), the small amount of inter-
nal cash generation availabl.e requires that, unless the Bank otherwise agrees,
no debt should be incurred before 1977 and that after 1977, net revenues at
the time of incurrence, before depreciation and interest, should be at least
1.5 times the future debt service on any proposed loan and existing debt.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
matters:
(a) Contract supervision by consultants (paragraph 3.16);
(b) ONEP to be relieved of non-water activities (paragraph 5.04);
(c) Financial autonomy for ONEP (paragraph 5.07) including more
authority in personnel matters (paragraph 5.10);
(d) External audit for ONEP (paragraph 5.08);
(e) Appointment of a Senior Financial Officer for ONEP (paragraph
5.09);
(f)  Accounting and billing improvements (paragraphs 5.14 and 6.07);
(g)  ONEP's assets to be valued at current values (paragraph 6.04);
(h) Government arrears of water rates to be settled (paragraph 6.05);
(i) A rate study and charging of adequate retail tariffs in the
coastal zone; the Government to make initially good operating
deficits due to inadequate tariffs where ONEP is the distrib-
ution agency (paragraphs 6.09 and 6.12);
(j) The Water Equalization Fund to cease to affect ONEP's revenues
(paragraph 6.11);
(k) Adequate bulk tariffs to be charged (paragraphs 6.12 and 6.14);
(1)  Disposal of future cash balances surplus to ONEP's needs
(paragraph 6.17);
(m) Cost overruns to b)e met by the Government (paragraph 6.19);
(n)  A debt service limitat±on for ONEP (paragraph 6.21).



- 23 -
7.02      It is proposed that the enactment of the draft decree on the fi-
nancial controls by the Ministry of Finance (paragraph 5.07) and the ONEP
personnel statute (paragraph 5.10) be made a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan.
7.03      The project provides a suitable basis a Bank loan of US$48 million
equivalent for a term of 25 years including a grace period of about five
years.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4 pages
MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EXISTING FACILITIES, WATER PRODUCTION
1.        Water production for the urban centers in the coastal zone
between Casablanca and Kenitra is derived one-third from groundwater and
two-thirds from surface sources. All important data on these sources are
tabulated in the tables at the end of this Annex. (See also Map 2.) The
background for these data is explained in the following notes.
2.        Around 1912 the first groundwater sources were developed near
the city limits of Casablanca and Rabat. By the early 1930s it became
necessary to develop sources further away, namely the Mamora well field,
with a 136 km pipeline via Rabat to Casablanca (0.9 m3/sec). As Casablanca
developed rapidly into the major industrial center and port of Morocco,
its water needs increased.
3.        As no more sizable groundwater resources were available, planning
started in 1945 for the Oum Er R'Bia scheme, which was inaugurated in 1952.
Water is abstracted from the Oum Er R'Bia, Morocco's second largest river,
at an intake behind a weir belonging to the National Power Authority. The
Oum Er R'Bia scheme consists of the river intake, a pumping station, a
treatment plant and a gravity pipeline 72.2 km long. Its initial capacity
was 1.4 m3/sec, which was increased to 2 m3/sec in 1968.
4.        As a stopgap measure for the period 1945-52, the Oued Mellah
scheme (0.2 m3/sec) was constructed using a reservoir originally intended
exclusively for irrigation. However, the chloride content of the Oued
Mellah water reaches 1000 mg/l during the summer months, which caused many
complaints from consumers.
5.        Finally, as an emergency step to overcome anticipated water
shortages which could arise before completion of a more permanent solution,
a temporary dam was built on the Grou river at a point 5 km upstream of the
site of thie Bou Regreg dam. It will be submerged in 1974 by the filling
of the reservoir created by the construction of the Bou Regreg dam.



_                ~         ,   .    . ,  .            .   R  _     .         .     _           _              .       ..             ..
.      .  .            .     .
-~~~~~~~~~~~S-
,"oea                  -                                                                                               C d        fl.
/ X5L^IM? ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~



CAS ABLACA - RABAT BLK VATER ¶SUDPkLr H ET
Or PcbW.e IlXter F-rdmtiom F-oilitec
for the O blo       -     tab   - Kc Wit  Cotl Zo.m
B    5r t  r Sonrr RHE/cGw
SC3i71M T
(cOt Jearli   nd                                                                                                         F09ARAT (1932-34)         -
stisoi)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          __
SOuRCE      |                                                                                                    IliiAi WELL FIIIL  (5 1a2)
NAdg                       1400)81  EL                                                                                                      __                               _                                                                                                                lSB 
NAME                                                     AIN~ir  11             kTN 10R1s
Kfo'R71934.(                                       AlilED TH1A2 (1948)              AIN SZA            __6H  (_967)              SIDI TAIZI (19b9)              AIX BARI            908880A PILNE  (1932.)
YIELD OR CxAPCITY
c    -i                75 I/.eo (60 - 10) 1/c.)         82 1/ce  (78 - 106 i/ceo)       12. 1/.ci               270 1/oCo                     130 (/000                100 1/-ro              100 I/...                     5 1/ceo                 903 V.-                                   O1/i/ce
DBd3iPTION           150 dog ollS  o   7 hc            afiltr - g1ir6           D) iltr-(tio                 6 drilled 0211  (deotl         Iiiltr-tia n gal2ler     1 d&Uled r'3           b dug cc11i  (de.th 10.)      36 dog celo                      _                                   11
10 . depi                      goller  (1.7 k6)        80 o((1.2 (ma)                                          (deptla 80 e
aie3 &r"td
mciii (depth 30  )_
lfliTOmm                                                                                                       Otloritiioi mith hypOio-1lti
WATER_                                                                              3 p-ap. of 8 1/.e.                                    2 poepa of 150 1/0c_
TRAN ION              Gravity                         3 pupo of bO I/oc                 1 Patp0  of 11,0       18 pU=ph of 30 I/.e.           9 ponpe  of 300 1/co    1   lsoe f             4 pu  of 90 1/coo             Goe-itJ-  Bootr StUtions                                         1 pg2p
Arie nail Aihd                                                                                      o778Y!li    ouflMMi
5  -pops    2. poacha,
220,380,    2 .  00 i/c 
4.20.506,    3   100 1/eco
PIPlEiox      (     B     aeg af thf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D-tireetl ooaaeed
vmorot Pipelioe)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     to t     Va
Tlll Ai. idaro                   Till Ai. Arri                    Till Aiu S1b00          fill lin Soba.                 TilS.  Sill Fio  roct                                                        Tili F t  T1    0r0.t         5,300 c0   800 b
9,000 e 0 2,00D
1 pipe 880 'I   ,  11 pipe 0 1.030 a                              1 PiPe 9150 m           I  ptpe 0 900 mI  pip e 0 1,700 m                      I  pie 912.00 a,       1pip. 91600 meI pipe 0l2400   .34,,700  1a 01,500-
L 5,300                          1 9000C                          L 4,00 I                L 8,700                        L 34,700                 L L 45a70e              4,200                       L   3000=                  87c000  m 6  lOO0
Coorctc                          Comroto                          Codt 100t               Coaaaretic Riforoed C-0r.t.    P-t-drecca                                     Ci (roe                       ConecmT Ot.l 136,000 i
C-ioet                                                                 M.oct31   Reimforod Cecaet
Till YhieiJl
1Ipipe 0 200 c
_43,000 c 
_     ___                               _                                                                                                                                                                                                     U12  ocioA AoUtiom
34,00OG m3



mocco
CASABIANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Yoin Elementa of the
Htjor Polable Water Prmuction Facilities
for the CasabLhana - Rabat - KXnitr- Cstsal Zone
C. iroundwater Sources RAD, RED
O'NNX                                                    HR    A                                                                                                                H R   E  D
IAIIE            vALLEr OF THE_
_OBED MELIAR              AIN IISSA                TIr  IELLIL               AIN CH0CK                 TANES3Irs                 AVIATE9                 SIDI MESAOTJD                AIN ATICI                  REBO1LA
(1923)                 (fl929)               (1912-20, 1930)              (1968-70)                                            (1967)                     (1967)                     (1967)                    (1916)
ELD OR ;OPAOCTY            169 i'aec             eaxxiumu  30 1/sec       maximum 11r 1/se.              80 I/sec                 2  1/sec                          (21 _ 3c 16sec)                                      (100 - 300 1/sea)
sverage ar
(minimum and
maxim,ur)
DPSMHPTPION               oatohment          Imfilt-atius galleries  Infiltration  allerie              catchment
and dugwells              aid dgwewlls
TREATMENT                                         Chlorination with hypochlm-its                                                                                       Chlorination with hypochlorite
'5AHSDISSI(N              7 pumps                     gravity                   gravity                 3 pumps                 1 pump of 40 1/sec  2 pumps, 15A/see              1 pump, 13 1/sec          3 pumps                   3 pVmps
5c  (70 Hp)                                                                   2x  (50 Hp)              (6o HP)              (15.3 Hp), 20/1/sac                                  25 1/see (25 Hp)           110 1/sac (16 Hp') 
2x (1(0 Hp)                                                                   ix  (6o0  p)                                  (20 Hp)                                               35 I/see (30 Hp)          2x  180 1/sec (22 Hp)
40O 1/see (20 Hp)
011710/P             1h,0  m 3 37  -           14,209 m I 23 0 -         12,000 a 3 601 ma                                    directly into            directly into                                                                                  0
600 ma                   1400 mm                                                                        dietrihltice              distribution                                                                     114,900 m    70 
system                  system                                                                             1 750 m Of 600 m
total 6,       m
Duos 6, 1972



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3 pages
MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EXISTING FACILITIES, WATER DISTRIBUTION
1.        The distribution systems can be categorized according to their
size and importance: Casablanca-Mohammedia, Rabat-Sale, Kenitra and small
coastal centers. No large differences exist in operating procedures and
use of materials, and all service connections are metered. Principal char-
acteristics are given at the end of this Annex.
Casablanca (RAD)
2.        The distribution system is well-managed and maintained.  Over the
last ten years, however, it has been growing at a slightly slower rate than
the population. (Growth rate of service connections and length of distri-
bution system: 3.2%/yr. and population: 4.5%/yr.). Unaccounted-for water
is estimated to have ranged between 19% and 26% during the last ten years,
and was 22% in 1970.
3.        The distribution system will need the construction of major feeder
pipes to cope with the increases forecast in demand. RAD has engaged French
consultants (Societe Africaine d'Etudes Maroc) to make a study of the dis-
tribution system requirements for the next ten years.
Mohammedia
4.        This city has gradually become a suburb of Casablanca and part
of its industrial development; as is only logical, its water distribution
system, at present under ONEP administration, will be transferred to RAD
on January 1, 1973.
5.        The distribution system is fairly new and in good condition.  Un-
accounted-for water was estimated to be only 10% in 1970. The average pipe
length per service connection is high (73 m pipe/service connection). The
number of service connections grew over the years 1967-70 at the rate of
5%/yr. The system is gravity-fed from the Fouarat pipeline.
Rabat (RED)
6.        The distribution system is well-managed and maintained.  The system's
unaccounted-for water decreased from 22% in 1968 to 16% in 1970. The system
is divided into four pressure zones, of which three are principally gravity-
fed from the Fouarat system and one is fed by a booster station. No recent



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3 pages
study has been made on augmenting feeder pipes to cope with the increases
forecast in demand.
Sale (municipal administration)
7.        Sale, which is situated across the Bou Regreg from Rabat, is the
only town of the project area where water supply is still a municipal under-
taking. The distribution system is in deplorable condition and little in-
formation on it could be obtained. In all likelihood the system will be
transferred to RED, which is already responsible for the power supply in
Sale as well as Rabat.
Kenitra (RAK)
8.        This regie, previously a municipal undertaking, became independent
on January 1, 1971, and is receiving technical assistance from RED. Its
distribution system is in poor condition, but under the new organization a
considerable effort is being made to correct this. The system is gravity-
fed from the Fouarat system.
Small Coastal Centers (ONEP)
9.        The ONEP distribution systems in these seaside resorts will
be transferred on January 1, 1973 to the three coastal regies (see Annex
20). Major works have been executed on the systems of Ellouisia, Ain
Harrouda, Bouznika and Temara and their condition is now satisfactory.
The condition of the systems in Sidi Bouknadel and Mehdia is unknown.
These systems are almost wholly gravity-fed from the Fouarat system.



MOROCCo
CASABIANCA - RABAT BREK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Rain Elements of the Existing Distribution ESyetes in the Projext Area
A. Distribhtion Pipes
Length:  km, en of January 1970
Diameter        Cnehbl-e  n        %        Mh      di.hemedin  '%           Rbst              4     SEsle    8      Keniton           '4          SEnll             "            Total           '4
(an)            (RAD)                        (ONEP)                        (RED)                  (Muni-           (RAK)                        Centers
nipal)                                          (ONP)
U-spe-ifieR                             144.o           11.5                                                                                                                                            ]44.o            5.8
Sme1l Diast-er         12-150           893.1           71.3          287.5          59.9           448.i          86.1        on            71.8           73.9          107.5           90.7         1808.0           73.3
MRedm                 2oo-4oo            160.0          12.8          179.2          37.4            63.2          12.1       e              21.6           22.3           11.0            9.3          435.0           17.6
ldei                  500-800             54.7           4.4           12.9           2.7             9.4           1.8       R e              3.7           3.8            -                            80.7            3.3
Totnl                                  1251.8          100            479.6         100             520.7         100                        97.1          100            ii8.5          100           2467.7          100
Len-th pe- Service
Conestion in n                         8.2                          72.5                         12.5                                       7.6                         61.1                          12.2
B. Stinage Tanks                                                                                                               C. Water Meters
Task Cf acity In               Diameter   Casablanca          Mohaeeedia           Eabat            Sale           Kenitra      Small Centers          Total
o f Tanks    Years Comesisened    Velosse        Elevatien       8 Average Daily                         (      R, pLD)           (ofly)            (RED)         (1gqnicilr        NRAT)            (omp)
m3       m (floor level)   Prodction (1970)                 (         Npmber    I                                                   %"   NeT=b%           Ns NPmber   p     Masber       S
12       96,rC43   63.3    3,r03   02.o   390,02   84.o                                       1,033   56.4      136,438   67.4
Tasablanca:        13             1714-1767         131,500          gr-140               83                         1s       42,810   28.1     2.000   37.8       3,3064   .8                                       624 1 35.        49,898   24.6
Mnkaecnedio:        2             108-1171            8,50o        40- 58                8o                         20        7.760    r.2       2r0    3.8       1.170    2.8                        -
Rabat:              3             1117-1'6e           238°°So        61-16                40                         30-40     4,781    3.2       238    3.6       1i030    2.5 3                                     7      38 8      69,1,24    3.7
Dale:               3                                  3,80    ~     00. ?7               30                         60-loo      203     .2       114    1.8         106    0.3                        H1                                514    0 .2
Kenitro:            1             1700                3,6oo          c5                   20                       l10-300        43               12    0.1          16                 a-1
Small Centers:      6                 -1971            6,670         33- 68              100                                                               *                                                                              7 _
Total Storage:     28                                179,120                                                         Tetal   152,430  100.0    6,614  100.0       41,588  100.0          8         12.600          1.91±1  100.0     202.573  l00.0
*Eceluding Sale & Kenitra
D. Materials nsed in
Distribution Pining
_ _ _ _   Cesablan7a ____asbat             _  Chess
Cast Iran                    6h%                      78%                30-no0  mm
Anesiesta-ement              19S                      18%                O-400 me
Concrete                      0%                       48               200-800 mm 
P-astie                       2%                                         21_ 33 m
Unspecified                  10%
Jone 6, 1972 






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 8 pages
MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TECHNICAL DETAILS OF PROJECT
The following is a summary of the principal technical data of
the various works in the project (Bou Regreg dam, pumping and treatment
plant, and conveyance system).
GENERAL GEOLOGY AND REGIONAL SEISMICITY
The Atlantic coastal zone between Casablanca and Rabat consists of
a narrow coastal plain and inland plateau which are traversed by fairly deep
rivers such as the Bou Regreg and Grou. Geologically, the project area is
composed of folded and faulted paleozoic rocks. Later erosion produced the
plateau of which the sediments are horizontally stratified and date from the
tertiary and quaternary ages.
Strong earthquakes occur in this region. Their epicenters are
generally in the Rif mountains or in the seas to the northwest. Earthquakes
of high intensity have occurred, however, with their epicenters in the Atlas
mountains, to the east and south. No epicenter has been registered in the
project area.
Earthquakes were some distance from the dam site, but were felt in
trre project area where the maximum horizontal acceleration from seismic shock-
waves is estimated to have been only between 0.05 and 0.10 g. For design of
the dam an acceleration factor of 0.10 g has been used.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
A. BOU REGREG DAM
The dam is located about 10 km from Rabat, immediately downstream
of the confluence of the Bou Regreg with its main tributary, the river Grou.
Hydrology
The Bou Regreg river basin above the dam has an area of 9405 km2.
Run-off data cover a relatively short period:



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 8 pages
(i) Flow data on the Bou Regreg for the period 1926-1940
were recorded from a gauging station 20 km upstream
of the dam site. These data were judged to be un-
reliable for the period 1926-1933.
(ii) Flow data on the Bou Regreg from the same gauging station
and from a new station on the Grou river from 1966.
The consultant TAMS by correlating monthly runoff and precipita-
tion made a conservative estimate of a dependable flow of 14 m3/sec (435
million m3/year) with a reservoir of 1,500 million m3. Partly because of
the insufficient hydrological data, the Government decided to construct
only, as a first phase, a dam with height of 100 m (reservoir capacity
575 million m3) which would give a regulated flow of 7 m3/sec. The site
is, however, suitable for a dam 106 m in height, with a storage capacity
of 1,500 million m3.
Geology
At the site of the dam the riverbed narrows through a rock forma-
tion consisting of regularly alternating monoclinic beds of schistose quartzite
and quartzose schists. These very hard rocks have a strike almost perpen-
dicular to the river on both banks and a dip of about 70% downstream. The
riverbed consists of alluvium for a width of about 120 m and a maximum depth
of 30 m. The overburden at the abutment slopes is relatively shallow (3 m
maximum) but on the plateau could be about 10 meters deep on the left bank
where the spillway will be located.
Type of Dam:  The dam will consist of rockfill (sloped 1:2) with a central
impervious clay core. Rockfill will be excavated from the diversion channel
and spillway. The foundation and core have been designed so that the height
of the dam can be increased in a later, second phase, by 6 m.
Height:  First Phase 100 m (bottom level about - 30 m, crest 69.5 m)
Second phase 106 m
Length of Crest: 350 m
Volume of fill: 2.3 Mm3
Reservoir Operating Levels and Storage:   Level    Volume
Maximum           52 m    545 Mm3
Minimum           30 m    120 Mm3 dead storage
425 Mmn usable storage
Submerged area:  At maximum normal water level (52 m) 31 km2
At maximum flood water level (65.3 m) 48 km2



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 8 pages
Spillway: The spillway channel will be located on the left bank plateau,
discharging back into the river Bou Regreg, about 700 m downstream from the
dam. The spillway crest will be at elevation 52 m: the width of the crest
will be 40 meters and the maximum spillway design flood 4,000 m3/sec.
Diversion works during construction: The main diversion works will consist
of two coffer dams (one upstream and one downstream, with their crests at
elevations 28.5 m and 17.0 m respectively), and a channel excavated in the
rock on the left bank. This channel, approximately 950 m long and 20 m wide
at its base, will be designed to pass the 100 year flood (6000 m3/sec).
B. TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
Raw Water (Intake to Treatment Plant)
(i)  Intake:   Concrete tower, 60 m high
Intake capacity: 13.7 m3/sec initially at 4 depths at
6.5 m intervals (between elevations
23 m and 49 m).
Location:  On the left bank, 450 m upstream of the dam.
(ii) Tunnel:
Length: 2660 m
Diameter: 2.6 m
Capacity:  13.7 m3/sec
Lining: Reinforced concrete rings
Geology:  km 0   - 0.9 quartzites and phyllites
km 0.9 - 1.8 coal-bearing shale
km 1.8 - 2.7 limestone
Some important faults were found, which will be avoided as much as possible
especially in the limestone formation.
Hydraulic Controls: Valves in the inlets at different elevations
in the intake tower, one security valve at the
beginning of the tunnel. A drain with valve
at the intermediate access to the tunnel. A
surge tower at the lower end of the tunnel.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 8 pages
(iii) Pumping Station:
Pumps: 3 x 1 m3/sec (each 2500 kW) (variable speed)
1 x 2 m3/sec (each 5000 kW)
Total dynamic head: From 95 m to 150 m depending on the
reservoir level.
(vi) Pipeline
Force Main:
Length: 2500 m
Diameter: 1500 mm
Capacity: 4.2 m3/sec
Material: Ductile cast iron or steel.
Treated Water (Treatment Plant to Casablanca)
(i) Pipeline:
Treatment                Mohammedia
Plant to    Bouznika to       to
Section         Bouznika    Mohammedia  Casablanca  Total
Length (km)       40.1           22.9        20.9      83.9
Capacity           2.4            2.1         2.1
(m3/sec)
(Gravity Flow)
Diameter (mm)    1500            1400        1400
Material: Probably prestressed concrete.
The pipeline will be designed so that at a later stage booster
stations could be installed to increase its capacity by about
20%.
(ii) Chlorination at the connections to Bouznika, Mohammedia and
Casablanca.
C. TREATMENT PLANT
Location: At the site of the existing treatment plant site between Rabat
and the Bou Regreg at elevation 150 m.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 8 pages
Capacity:  Existing Plant   1 m3/sec
Proposed Plant   3 m3/sec
Raw Water Characteristics: The ranges of the present raw water
characteristics have been measured as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 6of 8 pages
River Grou            River Bou Regreg
** pH                                 7.6 - 8.4            7.9 - 8.5
**Conductivity (micro-mhos)           300 - 1740            360 - 3160
**Na+   (mg/l)                          17 - 166             28 - 528
2.0 - 7*5            2.1 - 8.1
10.7 - 76.0          10.2 - 44.0
*Ca++    n                              2 - 81.8          28.8 - 67.3
*Mh      "                            .02 - .31            .01 - .08
*IFe++                                .01 - 2.04           .02 - 1.16
*§(Cl-    tt                            28- 320              38 - 850
AFx l                                . 12 -  k40           .14 - .80
-No3     n                           1.3 - 13.8            1.7 - 12.8
A0N2                                  .04 - .42            .09 - .43
*HCO3    n                          96,5 - 245.0         100.7 - 296.0
*S04-                                 28- 267               39 - 126
*Total Suspended Solids (mg/i)      13.6 - 13140          12.8 - 2730
*Total Dissolved Solids (mg/i)       337 - 952             348 - 1488
*Total Hardness  (mg/l)               116 - 406            118 - 326
*Total Allalinity (mg/i)              75 - 201              82 - 243
*Cmlifcrm Organismss "PNAOO mL)        40 - 2200            50 - 12000
**Organic Matter (mg/i KMnO)             6 - 20               6 - 25
*From samples taken between N'v-67 - Sept. 168.
**fFrom samples taken between Nov. '67 - May '71.



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 8 pages
The raw water of the Bou Regreg reservoir will be of a better quality
than the present river waters, except for possible tastes and odors. The
settling effect of the reservoir will reduce substantially the suspended solids
during floods and dilution will lower dissolved solids during periods of low
flow.  Deposits of organic materials, principally originating from soil erosion,
and algal growth are expected. They will impart an earthy taste to the water
after a few years, which will then require more intensive treatment, probably
with activated carbon. Provision for this treatment is being made in the
design of the proposed plant.
The specifications for the proposed treatment plant are conservative
because of the limited availability of Moroccan managerial, operational and
maintenance personnel and uncertainty of the exact characteristics of the water
in the reservoir. The Bank has requested that design of the treatment plant
should permit higher filtration rates as experience is gained. This may
allow postponement of the projected enlargement of the plant in 1981 by
passing more water through the existing and proposed plants.
For the additional 3 m3/sec, the following works would be required:
Conventional Treatment
(a) Prechlorination at the intake
(b) Presedimentation (if required)
(c) Rapid Mix - 1 basin (160 m3) (3 min 15 sec)
(d) Flocculation and Sedimentation: 3 basins (1 hr 41 min)
(upward flow max. 2.60 m/h)
(e)  Filtration - 24 basins of 90 m2 (6 m/h = 2.4 gal/sq ft/minute)
(f) Chlorination - (0.2 - 1 mg/1)
(g)  Treated water tank (12,000 m3)
D. REHABILITATION OF FOUARAT SYSTEM
(see description Annex 1)
Major maintenance works on the forty-year old Fouarat system,
consisting of a 136 km long pipeline and the Mamora well field, e.g., de-
velopment of new wells simultaneously with the closure of unprotected
wells and repair of the 220 m long Bou Regreg river crossing; and mis-
cellaneous works to improve the efficiency of the installations.



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 8 pages
E.  EQUIPMENT
The equipment to be provided under the project consists of;
Mechanical equipment and structures to be incorporated in thie civil works,
such as those required for the hydraulic operation and maintenance of the
dam and tunnels; treatment plant and pumping equipment.
F. ENGINEERING
(see also under Procurement, Annex 6)
Design of the Project
1.   Feasibilit  Study and Preliminary Engineering
Project appraisal by the Bank was based on feasibility studies
prepared under a WHO/UNDP project by the consultants SEMA and COMTEC. The
preliminary engineering study for the Bou Regreg dam was prepared by the
consultant TAMS.
2.   Design and Preparation of Specifications
(a) Bou Regreg Dam
The Department of Hydraulics, Ministry of Public Works is respon-
sible for construction of the Bou Regreg dam. It lhas engaged TAMS to make
the final design of the dam. TAMS has also prepared the bidding documents.
Final design of the dam is under way and will be ready by Agust 1972.
(b) Raw and Treated Water Transmission System,
Pumping Station and Treatment Plant
These facilities will be constructed under the responsibility of
ONEP. The design was contracted in July 1971 to a consortium of French con-
sultants: SAFEGE (leader), SAEM and SCET-INTERNATIONAL (Annex 6, para. 3).
Preparation of Future Projects
The project includes provision for consultant services for the
preparation of future water supply and sewerage investment projects.
G. MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE
The project includes provision for management assistance by
consultants, not yet selected, in all aspects of operations, including
organization structure and job specification, accounting, training, pro-
curement, maintenance, waste prevention, programming and planning, person-
nel management, new works administration, and billing; and for studies of
water supply tariffs and, if needed, sewerage tariffs.



H)ROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Sumsary of Project Cost Estimates and
Proposed Allocation of Proposed Bank Loan
PROPOSED ALLOCATION
-----------------------------------COST ESTIMATED--------------------------------------                             OP-- ___----OF BANK LOAN---------------
Foreign as          Percentage
Local       Foreign        Total         Local       Foreign        Total        % of Total             Basis           Asiount        Amount
-    (in mcillijon  H.H.)                (in milin nS)                                                         milhionDH    million US$
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Bou Regreg Dam
a.  Dam                                         49.8         44.2           94.0        10.7           v.6          20.2            47               47% of Total        44.2            9.5
b.  Access Roads   G Oeneral Installations       7.5          2.0            9.5         1.6           0.4           2.0            21                    _4/              -               -
c.  Reestablishment Rcads                        8.7          7.7           16.4         1.9           1.6           3.5            47               47% of Total         7.7            1.7
2.  Tntake & Tunnel                                 11.7         11.7           23.4         2.5           2.-           5.0            to               47% of Total        11.0            2.4
3.  Pumping Station                                  4.2          3.1            7.3         0.9           0.7           1.6            42               47% of Total         3.e            0.7
L. Treatment Plant                                  11.6          9.3           20.9         2.5           2.0           4.5            14               47% of Total         9.8            2.1
C   Pipelines
a. Raw Water                                     1.8          3.2            5.0         0.4           0.7           1.1            64               47% of Total         2.4            0.5
b. Treated Water                                50.4         43.0           93.4        10.8           9.2          20.0            66               47% of Total        43.9            9.4
Subtotal CIVIL WORKS                       146.7        124.2         269.9         31.3          26.6          r7.9            46                                  122.5           26.3
B. EQUIPMENT
1. Bou Regreg Dam                                    2.1          3.7            6.8         0.4           0.8           1.2            64              100% of Foreign       3.7            0.8
2. Intake & Tunnel                                   1.4          2.6            4.0         0.3           0.6            .9            6r              100% of Foreign       2.6            o.6
3. Purcpirg Station                                  4.3          9.5           13.8         0.9           2.1           3.0            69              100% of Foreign        9.5           2.0
4. Treatment Plant                                   6.9         16.1           23.0         1.6           3.4           4.9            70              100% of Foreign      16.1             3.5
5.  Pipeline (Treated Water)                          3.2         5.8            9.0         0.7           1.2           1.9            64              100% of Foreign        5.8            1.2
Subtotal EQUIPMENT                          17.9         37.7          55.6          3.8           8.1         11.9             68                                   37.7            8.1
C. REONDITIONINO FOUARAT SISTEM                           3,0         2.0            0.O           .6            .r          1.1            40               47% of Total          2.4            0.5
D. LAND ACQUTSTTION                                      21.7           -           21.7          4.7                                         -         -                  -                       -
E. ENOINEERING & CONSULTTME SERVICES
1. Dam
a.  Design                                       3.7         10.0           13.7         o.8           2.1           2.9            73                     - 2/             -              _
b.  Supervision                                  4.4          2.0            6.4         0.9            .5           1.4            31               15% of Total -/       1.0            0.2
2. Transmission & Treatment
a. Design                                        3.5          3.5            7.0         0.8            .7           1.6            60               50% of Total          3.5            0.8
b.  Supervision                                 13.0          7.0           20.0         2.8           l.6           4.3            35               3c1 of Total          7.0            1.5
3.  Managment Consultant Services & Training          1.0         4.0            c.o         0.2           Or'           1.1            8o               80% of Totai          4.0            o.8
Subtotal ENG. & CONS. SERVICES              26.6         26.r           r2.1         ".7 r.7                   11.2             6)                                   15.5            3.3
TOTAL (Net of Contirgencies)                   213.0        190.4          140.3        4".A          40.0          86.8            47
F.  CONTINGENTIES                                        40.2        44.4            84.6         8.6           9.5         18.1             54                    __/            45.6             9.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST (Includirg Contingencies)       254.1        234.8          488.9        64.5          60.4         104.9            48                                   223.7           48.0
1/ Works executed before June 1971
2/ USAID-financed
3/ Partially French aid financed
4/ According to Percentage Basis of Categories to which this Amount will be allocated eventually
June 6, 1972



ANNEX 5
MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(Amounts   illion  . H. )
Detailed Cost lutimtew
__ _------TCTAL --------
. of Total        Foreign as
Local      Foreig                  Project Cost      % of Total
.I BOU RIRBRE DIU4
A. Civil horks
i. Djama                                 49.8        44.2         94.0          19.2            47
2. Access Roads                           1.2         0.2         1.4            0.3            14
3. General Installations                  6.3         1.6          8.1           1.7            22
4. Reestabliahment Roads                   8.7         7.7        16.4           3.3            47
Subtotal Civil Works                 66.0        53.9       I19.9           24.5            45
B.   auipment                                  2.1         3.7         5.8           1.2            64
0. Miscellaneous
Land Acquisition                         16.7           -         16.7           3.4             -
D. l.ineering
1. Design                                  3.7        10.0        13.7           2.8            73
2.  Supervision                            4.4         2.0         6.LI          1.3            31
Subtotal Engineering                  8.1        12.0        20.1            4.1            55
TOTAL BOU RE&RT1 DAM
(NTet of Contingencies)              92.9        69.6        162.5         33.2            l
II.  TRANSMISSIOI & TREATMENT
A. Civil Works
1. Intake & Tunnel                        11.7        11.7        23.14 L4.8                    50
2. Pumping Station                         3.5         2.1        5.9           1.2            41
3. Treatment Plant                        10.8         8.6        19.14          4.0            44
4. Pipeline
a. Raw Water                           1.8         3.2         5.0           1.0            64
b. Treated Water                      50. 4       43.0        93.4          19.1             46
Subtotal Civil Works                 78.2        68.9       1247.1          30.1            47
B. Equipment
1.  Intae & Tunnel                         1.4         2.6         )4.0          .8              65
2. Pumping Station                         4.3         9.5        13.8          2.8             69
3. Treatment Plant                         6.9        16.1        23.0          4.7              70
4. PipeLine                                3.2         5.8         9.0          1.9              64
Subtotal Equipment                    15.8        314.o       49.8         10.2             68
C. Miscellaneous
1. Land Acquisition                        5.0          -          5.0          1.0
2. Temporary Installations                 0.8         0.7         1.5           .3              47
3. Power Lines                             0.7         o.7         1.4           .3              50
Subtotal Miscellaneous                 6.5         1.4         7.9          1.6             18
D.
1.  Design                                 3.5         3.5         7.0          1.4              50
2. Supervision                            13.0         7.0        20.0          1441             35
Subtotal Engineering                  16.5        10.5        27.0          5-5             39
TOTAL TRANSMISSION & TREATIMENT
(NTet of Contingencies)              117.0       114.8       231.8          47.4
III.  RECONDITIONING FOUARAT SYSTEM                  3 0         2 0         5-0          1.0 Q4
IV. MAAfAG34ENT CONSULTATT SERVICES & TRAIIING      1.C         4.0         5.0          1.0              80
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(lTet of Contingencies)                      213.9       1904        4O1.3         82.7              L
V. CONTII GEECIES
1. Physical--a)  Darn                          8.5         6.3         15.2          3.1             414
b)  Other                       15.b        16.9        32.3           6.6             53
2. Price                                      15.9        21.2         37.1          7.6             57
TOTAL CONTINGOECIES                       40.2        44.4         84.6         17.3             52
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(Including Contingencies)                        254.1       234.8       488.9        100.0              48
June 6, 1972



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2 pages
MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROCUREMENT
Project Elements
1.        Procurement is being executed on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
(i) Bou Regreg Dam
In July 1970 the Department of Hydraulics advertised
in the international press for prequalification for
the construction of the Bou Regreg dam. Offers were
received by September 15, 1970. Only European firms
showed interest. Bidding documents were issued in
November 1970 to 16 firms, and 9 bids were received
in February/March 1971. The Government signed the
contract for the construction of the dam in June 1971
with the lowest bidder, DUMEZ-France.
(ii) Raw and Treated Water Transmission System, Pumping
Stations and Treatment Plant
(a) Invitation for prequalification for intake,
tunnel, and hydromechanical equipment for these
facilities, and for the pumps was advertised in
the international press in July 1970 and submissions
were received in August 1971.
(b) Invitations for prequalification for the remaining
principal civil works and supply of equipment
were distributed in November 1971 and submissions
were due by January 15, 1972, except those for
tlhe river crossings which were due by March 15,
1972.
(c) All bidding by prequalified suppliers and con-
tractors will be completed during 1972. The
consultant SAFEGE assists ONEP in evaluating
the prequalification offers and bids.
Design Consultants
2.        The Department of liydraulics has retained TAIS for the feasi-
bility study, preliminary design, preparation of bid documents and final



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2 pages
design. The contract is financed by a loan from USAID (2% interest rising
to 3%, over 40 years.
3.        ONEP has retained a consortium of French consultants, SAFEGE,
Societe Africaine d'Etudes Maroc and SCET-INTERNATIONALE, for the design
of the remaining project components.



ANNEX 7
MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements -
IBRD Fiscal Year                                   Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                        at End of Quarter
(US$ Millions)
1972/1973
December 31, 1972                                           10.4
March 31, 1973                                              13.8
June 30, 1973                                               18,3
1973/1974
September 30, 1973                                          22.6
December 31, 1973                                           29.1
March 31, 1974                                              33.1
June 30, 1974                                               36.6
1974/1975
September 30, 1974                                          38.7
December 31, 1974                                           40.5
March 31, 1975                                              41.8
June 30, 1975                                               43.1
1975/1976
September 30, 1975                                          43.9
December 31, 1975                                           45.1
lIarch 31, 1976                                             45.9
June 30, 1976                                               46.6
1976/1977
September 30, 1976                                          46.7
December 31, 1976                                           46.7
March 31, 1977                                              48.0
For these projections, the loan is assumed to
become effective at the end of August 1972.






MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SIJPFLY PROJECT
Pro ected Demand in the Coastal Zone Rabat-Casablanca (Inoludin, Distribution Losses)
(Millions of mT Unless Othenrise Stated)
I - CASABLIANCA
Domnestic consumption                    Industrial                Public                  Total              Network
Zlopulation      Annual         Per Capita                                                                                                             E ;fficiency      Supply
Year         (Millions)       Inorease         (1/od)      Increase         Volume          Volume    Increase    Volume    Increase    Volume    Increase             (;.            Required
1960      _       _ 0.98i/  _ __                                      _       ; __     _     55.6        _                        _ -  _ __ _19.91  _ _ 3.68  -  -.79 _   _  275, _  - _ ___ 78.8   _t47
1966           1.20             3               60.7           1.56                           503        6.5         4.96        4-6        37 L                  . ,                   46.44
1967            1.25            4.2             60.5          -0-3           27.63            5.56     10.,         5.12         3.2         81                        76.5             50.11
1968           1.31             4.8             60.2          -0.5           28.84            5.82       4.7        4-89        -4                        7            75.1             52.63
1969           1.38             5-3             61.5           2.2           31.02            6.45     10.8         5.06         3.5                    7.             77.3             54.86
1970            1.45            5.1             61.5            -            32-53            7-34     13.8         5.42         7.1        4 ,2        6.5            75.2             57-95
Projected:
1971           1.5              1 4             62.1           1             34.2             8.0       9           5.7           .2         7          5.8                             61.1
1972           1.G              5               62.7           1             36.2             8.7       9           5.9          3.         50 r                                        64.9
1973            1.7             5               63.4           1             38.2             9.5        9          6.1          3.-         3          5                               69.0
1974           1.7              5               64.0           1             40.6            10.14       9          6.3          3-   157-              6.6                             73.8
1975           1.8              5               64.6           1             42.9            11.3       9           6.5          3.          07          5                              78.9
1976            1.9             5               65.9           2             46.0            12.3       9           6.8          3-         o-1         7.2                             84-43
1977           2.0              5               67.2           2            49-3             13.4       9           7.0          3-5       60.7         7.-                             90.3
1978           2.1              5               68.6           2..          52.8             14.6        9          7.2          3 5        t4.7        7.1            approx.          96.5-
197)           2.2              5               69.9           2             56.7            15.9       9           7.5          3-5        80.1        7.3            78              103.4;
1980            2.3             5               71-3           2             60.6            17.4        9          7.8          3-5        85.8        7.2                            10.5
13)1           2.4              5               72.8           2             64.9            18.9       9           8.0          3             8.       6 '                            118.2
1932          2.6              974.2                          2             69.6            0.7       9           8.3          3-5        98.6        7L. I                          126.6
1983           2.7              5               75.7           2             74.2            22.5        9          8.6          3.5       105.3        °-?                            135.4
1321          2.8              5               77.2           2             79.8            2!1.5       9          8.9          3.5       113.2        7.5                            144.9
1985           3.0              5               78.7           2             85.3            26.8        9          9.2          3         121.3        7.1                            30.1
C/ Census years.
January 5, 1972
F'0
. 



INOR0CCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATI6R SUPPLY PIOJFCT
Projected Demand in the Coastal Zone Rabat-Casablanca (Includin-  Distribution Losses)
(Nillions of m3 Unless Otherwise Stated)
II - RABAr
Domestic Concumotion                    Other Uses                      Total                  Network        Bulk
Population      Annual                 Per Capita      %                                                                                    Efficiency    Supply
Year           (Thousand)      Increase                (1/cd)      Increase     Volume           Volume     Increase          Volume     Increase             (,)         Reouired
1960               227             -                      89          -          7.35             3.12          _              10.47        -                  N/A          N/A
1966               297            4.6                     89          _          9.68             4.51         6.4             14.19       5.2                 73.1         19.40
1967               312            5.0                     89          -         10.20             4.57         1.3             14.77       4.1                  76.0        19.43
1968               328            5.1                     90         1.1        10.78             4.91         7.4             15.69       6.2                  77.7        20.19
1969               344            4.9                     92         2.2        11.57             5.60        14.0             17.17       9.4                  81.6        21.03
1970               360            4.7                     94         2.2        12230             5 50        -1.8             17 80       3.7                 84.1         21.17
Projected
1971               379            5.3                     96         1.6        13.0              5.8          6               188        6.o                              23.0
1972               399            5.3                     97         1.6        13.9              6.2          6               20.1        6.7                              24.5
1973               420            5.3                     99         1.6        14-9              6.6          6               21.5        6.7                              26.1
1974               443            5.5                    100         1.6        16.0              6.9          6               22.9        6.8                              27.9.
1975               467            5.4                    102         1.6        17.1              7.4          6               24.5        6.8                              29. 9
1976               491            5.2                    103         1.6        18.3              7.8          6               26.1        6.5                              31.8
1977               516            5.1                    105         1.6        19.5              8.3          6               27.8        6.7                  approx.     33.9.
1978               542            5.0                    107         1.6        20.8              8.8          6               29.6        6.5                  82          36.1..
1979               570            5.2                    108         1.6        22.3              9.3          6               31.6        6.6                              38.5
1980               600            5.3                    110         1.6        23.8              9.9          6               33.7        6.7                              41.1
1981               628            4-7                    112         1.6        25.3             10.5          6               35.8        6.3                              43.6
1982               656            4.5                    114         1.6         26.9            11.1          6               38.0        6.3                              46.3
1983               686            4.6                    116         1.6        28.6             11.7          6               40.3        6.o                              49.2
1984               717            4.5                    117         1.6        30.3             12.5          6               42.8        6.1                              52.2
1985               750            4.6                    119         1.6         32.2            13.2          6               45.4        6.2                              55.4
January 5, 1972
I   X~~~~~~~~~



NO,ROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER S;JPPLY PROJECT
Projected Demand in the %oastal Zone .tabat-Casablanca (Inclu i   Distribution Losses)
(Millions of m; Unless Otherwise Stated)
III - TOTA'L DDV14D 1970-85 (INCLUDING S3NILLY-:: CITIES)
Total
Smaller Cities ------------B-_---                                 Bulk
Year1Casablancli/  Rab2t~/         I  /                                          Other                supply
____               __________X                Rabat-             ',ale        Kenitra       Mohammedia         Centers               leguired
1970                     58.0                   21.2              4.3           7.3             3,8              2.14                  97.0
1971                     61.1                   23.0               .8           6.7              .o              2.9                  102.5
1972                     64.                    24.5              5.6           7.1             4.2              3.6                  109.9
1973                     69.0                   26.1              6.3           7.6             4.               4.3                  117.8
1974                     73.8                   27. -             7.1           8.2             5.0              5.-                  127.0'.
1 9 75-                  78.9                   29.9              8.1           8.8             5-4             5- 6                  136.7
1976                     84-.                   31.8              8.9           9.5             5.9              6.6                  147.-
1977                     90.3                   33.9              9.8          10.1             6.4              7.5                  158.0
1973                     96.5                   36.1             10.7          10.8             7.0              8.2                  169.3
1979                    103.4                   38-5             11.6          11.6             7.7              8.7                  181.5
1980                    110§)                  L41.1             12.5          12.5             8 4.2                                 194.2a
1981                    118.2                   43 6             13-           1, 4             -,.0             9.8                  207.4
1982                    126.6                   46.3             14.3          14 2             9.8             10.4                  221.6
1'33                    13544                   49.2             15.3          15.1            10.6             10-8                  236.3
1984                   1i4.t                    ;2.2             16.3          16.0            11.4             11.4                  252.2
193r                    155.1                   95. 4            17-3          16.9            12.3             12.0                  209.0
See page 1 of this Annex.
j See page 2 of this Annex.
March 13, 1972
In
CD,






CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
UTILIZATION OF WATER RESOTRCES IN THE COASTAL ZONE
DTOIAND           ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SUPPLYI/ -------------------------------------------------------------------__-_____
OUED        LOCAL
MAMORA                 MELLAH       SOURCES        CUM ER R'BIA                                                                          Total Supply by RETI/ONEP
Sub-Total          Supply
Total                                                                                                             Required                                     Volume in % of                 Annmal
2'                                       REI                      I,                     Existing          from                                           Total Supply
Year           Demand             REI 'ONEP          RAK       ONEP       RED3.      RAD-       S14D          Supply             BOU REGREG                Volume              Coastal Zone               Growth Rate
------------------            --------------- ---tel on     m3-r3jFa ------  =  -------   =  ---------------------------------------------- ---------------------      --------   __  ----%  -------------------
A   5/-                                                                                     6/  6/ D8 a/   A8/                             8/      88, 8/Al                     l
A-  B-                                                                  O-      D-              gJ   T-               EU       _-                 ;       F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-0  - FEFE
1266           77.?7            26.6e   24.16        2.26      1.32       5.67       6.80        38.69        77.97                   _                      25.6                   32_8
1167           82.62            26.14   23.62        2.66      1.ef4      5.82       f.28       43.70         82.62                   -                      25.2                   30-5                       -1.6
1268           87.04            28.20   21.49        3.c4      °.74       c.31       6.90       4r.01         87.o4                   -                      26.2                   30.1                        4.0
196'           91.64            26.29   24.69        3.6f      0.83       8.83      l0.r2       42.87         91.39                  °.20                    25.8                   28.2                       -1.5
1270           96.9S            18.47   le.),2       3.02      0.70      11.011    10.62        41t.82        86.12                 10.83                    27.0                   27.8                        4.7
1971           102.5            19.0    18.1         4.0      0°7        11.3      10.5         45.0          89.6               13.5    12.9                31.7                   30.9                       17.4
1972           109.9            20.0    19.0         6.8       1.5        8.7        9.0        47.2          92.2               18.6    17.7                38.2                   34.8                       20.5
1973           117.8            21.0    20.0         6.8       3.2        8.7        9.0        50.4          98.1               20.7    19.7                42.9                   36.4                       12.3
1974           127.0            28.14    27.0        7.1       3.2        6.3        8.0        53.0         104.6               23.5    22.4                52.6                  1h.6                        22.6
1975           136.7            28.4    27.0         7.5       3.2        6.3        8.0         67.0        109.0               29.1    27.7                57.9                   42.4                       10.1
1976           147.1            28.4    27.0         7.9        -         8.7        9.0        61.5         114.1               33.8    33.0                60.0                   40.8                        3.6
1277           108.0            28.4    27.0         8.4        -         8.7        9.0        61.6         114.6               44.5    43.4             70.4  131.9           44.6    83.5               17.3
1278           162.3            28.14   27.0          8.8       -         8.7        9.0        61.6          11.0)             65.7    l4.3             81.3  142.8           48.0    84.4               15.5    8.3
1'7'           181.c            28.4    27.0         9.2        -         8.7        9.9         61.6         ll.)               67.8    66.1             93.1  1614.6          51.3   865.2               14.6    8.3
1'80 )         114.2            28.4    27.0          9.6       -         8.7        9.0        61.6         ll'.8               8q.h    78.14           10o.4  166.9           54.3    85.9               13.2    8.0
1281           207.4            28.8    27.0        10.0        -         8.7        9.0         61.5        116.2               93.5    21.2            118.2  179.7           57.0    86.6               12.1    7.7
1)82           221.6            28.14    27.0       10.0        -         8.7        9.0        61.6          116.2             108.0  1o6.4             132.4  193.9           59.7    87.5               12.0    7.9
1283           236.3            28.4    27.0        10.0        -         8.7        9. 3        61.5         116.2             123.1   120.1            147.1  208.6           62.3    88.3               11.1    7.6
1984           252.2            28.14    27.0       10.0        -         8.7        9.0         61.5        116.2              139.4   136.0            163.0  224.5           64.6    89.0               10.8    7.6
1986           269.0            28.1)    27.0       10.0        -         8.7        Q.0         61.5        116.2              156.6   152.8            179.8  241.3           66.8    89.7               10.3    7.5
1/   Existing resources excluding the Bou Regreg Drm.
2'  Including water unaccounted-for in local distribution systems.  Equivalent of supply required for distribution in Coastal Zone (sse preceding Annex).
3    Figures include volume supelied by city of Rabat  (10  of total supoly in 1270).
14/  RAD's sources are Tit  ellil, Ain Dissa, Vallee Oued Nellah, Aln Chock.
5/   A = Production.  B = Supply, i.e. productign volume available for distribution after losses in Fouarat pipeline systea. Assumed losses during 1971-1985:  5%.
6/  C 2 Prodaction.  D = Supply, i.e. production volume available for distribution after losses in pipeline system.  Assumed losses during 1971-1975: 5%; during
1976-1985: 2.5%.  Bou Regreg 1969-1973 =  Grou.               Supply prozectimns for Bou Regreg derived as equivalent of total demand less sub-total supply.
7/   Mamora * Oued Mellah (until 1975) + Bou Regreg * Oum Er HI Bia (from 1977 on), SMD5   s production assumed to be taken over by REI/ONEP in lQ76. Supply = equivalent of volume sold.
8/   E = Excluding Oum Er R'Bia. F = Including Ous Er R'Bia.
SOURCE: SEMA/COMTTEC lth Renort (Draft. July 1271).
Narch 13, 1'72






ANNEX  0 O
Page 1 of 5 pages
MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        The following annex compares the measurable benefits and costs of
the Casablanca - Rabat Bulk Water Supply Project. Since the benefits to
consumers of water are understated in the amount they actually pay, the
return estimates shown below understate in corresponding degree the economic
merits of the project.
2.        A temporary dam exists on the River Grou; it will remain during
construction of the Bou Regreg dam and eventually be submerged by the re-
servoir of that dam. The water furnished by this temporary dam permits
existing sources to be partly closed down for overhaul and rehabilitation.
The rehabilitation works are part of the project, the Grou dam is not;
however, since they are inter-related, and since part of the Bou Regreg's
output merely replaces that of the Grou, the costs and revenues of the
latter have been included with those of the project.
3.        In computing revenues attributable to the project, therefore, the
whole output of the Grou dam during 1970-73 was included, and, after 1973,
the additional output obtainable from the existing sources as a result of
their rehabilitation. The operating costs taken into account similarly
included those related to both these incremental volumes of water.
4.        On completion of the project substantial excess capacity will
still exist in the dam and the pipeline, and not until the year 2000 or
thereabouts, after numerous further supporting investments, will full
utilization be reached. These further investments were therefore included
in the cost streams to be compared with revenues of the project. Since
the retail sale price of water is a better measure of incremental revenues
from the project than a bulk sale price, the costs include not only REI/
ONEP's costs but also those of the distribution agencies in retailing the
increased supply of water.
5.        The distribution agencies' operating costs were included at the
rate of DH 0.10/i3, calculated on 77 percent of bulk water to allow for
network losses and contingencies. In addition to REI/ONEP's investment
costs (including physical contingencies but excluding price escalation),
DH 1.50/additional m3 is the estimated investment required in distribution
networks; both investments were then reduced by 15 percent to remove taxes.
All costs are at 1970 prices.
6.        Operating costs exclude taxes, depreciation, financing charges,
and consumer-financed works and services (since these last are fully re-
couped). REI/ONEP's personnel costs are based on higher rates of pay



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2 of 5 pages
than those presently in force, which are below market levels.  A share
of REI/ONEP's head office expense was attributed to bulk production in
the coastal zone, but calculated as if in 1969 (the base year) the higher
salaries mentioned above were in force, and as if there were no alloca-
tions of HQ expenses to non-water activities.
7.        Revenues were included before deducting the sales tax, wlich is
a part of the retail price paid for water. Two retail prices, namcly DH
0.70/m3 and DH 1.00/m , were used in the calculations.  The lower price is
nearer to present tariffs, but the higher price is regarded as more realistic,
since present retail tariffs have been unchanged since 1959 and sol.e early
increase aDpears inevitable. Experience in other countries suggests that
in a system already fully-metered and subject to supply shortages an in-
crease of this order would not depress demand more than temporarily.
(DH 1.00 m3 is about equal to US$0.80/1000 gals.)
8.        Two sensitivity tests were incorporated into the calculaiion at
DIH 1.00/m3:
(a) To assume overall demand to be 10% less than forecast--
implying a rather larger fall in ONEP's sales (since
that agency is the "supplier of last resort"), with a
consequent 2-year slippage in investments other than the
project;
(b) To assume project costs, together with future ONEP
capital expenditure, to be 25% higher than forecast.
These adjustments did not affect the rate of return materially (see below).
9.        The following results were derived:
Rate of Return
Total Demand as    Total Demand
Sale Price                               Forecast        Reduced by 10%
DH 0.70/m3                                 5.8%                _
DH 1.00/m3                                10.1%               8.6%
DH1.00/m3, but
investment increased
by 25%                                      8.5%              7.2%
Tables 1-3 of this Annex show the detailed projections of costs
and revenues.



ANNEX 10
Table I   .........               Page 3 of 5 pagea
Rate of Return on Full Sales Projections
(at 51O.7O/sM3)
DH Hundred Thousand
-or   1 rneT S   2  0ocT s   1 BEN. $
1          *.         13fi.          0.
2         44.        1t6.          680
3         89-         405.          70-
4        t1t7         8??.          q7.
5        108.        143?.         108&                 Notes
6        15q7         85?,         140.
7        151.-        3A9.         172.       Cost Stream 1
8        117'         131.         1R3           REI7ONEP operating costs.
9        226*         115.         237 .         Distribution costs
10        255.           0.         297-            (Capital and operating).
11        292.         13q8         381.
12        315.         334.        4?A-        Cost Stream 2
1i        349.         281.        496*          REI/ONEP's investment costs.
14        388.         103.        571.
i5        4260         253)      652*          Revenues
16        462.         lo9.         7139          Retail Sales at DH 0.70/m3
17        503. 3-l3437              83 7
18        478. F6.                  9611.
19        495.         381.        9f0.
20        525.         488.        1030-
21        578.         345.        1116.
22        614           B.         120#.
23        592.          22.        1278.
24        931.          52?        13587
25        644.          48.        1434.
2f        673.          65.        l5t5-
27        p9r&. 61.                1595.
28        712-           3.        1877;
29        745.           27        1783-
30        720           39.        1833-;
31        681.          317        1870.
3?        704.           2         1914-l
33       8i25.           3.        1914-
34        f25.          75.        1914.
35        625.          Ti'        1914*
36        625-          31.        19147
37        825.          27.        19147
38        625            3.        19147
39        625-           2V        1914.-
40        625.          39.        19147
Rates of Return:
On projections as above ...... ............. 5.82%
Cost Stream 2 increased 25% ..... ....... 4.55%
R*tvnue Stream increased 25% .......    ...   8.47%
Revenae Stream reduced 25%  ...........       2.30%
June 6, 1972



ANNEX 10
Table 2                          Page 4 of 5 pages
Rate of Return on Full Sales Projections
(at DH 1.00/r3)
DH Hundred Thousand
Year 1 rncT S   2 insT S   '  BFN. q
1          &0.        136.           0 .
2         44.         1?r*          85.
3         89.         405.         100.
4        111.         821.        1j9i
S        !0O.        1432.         154.
6        159.         853.         200
7        151.         349.         24g.             Notes
8        117.         131.         262.
9        226.         115.         339.    Cost Stream 1
10        255*           0.         424.         REI/ONEP operatirg costs.
11        292.         13Q.         516.         Distribution cOwS;s
12        315.         334.         608;           (Capital and ol.erating).
13        349.         281.         708.
14        388.         103.         816'    Cost Stream 2
15        42F.         25?.         912.         REI/ONEP's inves-ment costs.
16        dfi2.        309.        1055.
17        503.         343.        118g.     isvenues
18        47F*         26C.        1270.         Retail Sales at DH 1.00/m3.
19        495.         381.        1171.
28        525-         48F.-       1471'
21        57fi.        345.        1594.
22        614.          7dI        1725'
23        592.          22*        1825-
24        631.          52.        1940.
25        644.          48.        2048.
26        673.          65-        2164.
27        fi95          61.        2279.
28        712.           3.        2395'
29        7d5.           2.        2518.
30        720-          39         2618.
31        681.          33.        2672.
32        704.           2.        2734.
33        62 -           3.        2731-
34        625.          75.        2734
35        625.          71.        271A.
36        625.          31.        273q-
37        ¢25.          27.        271A
38        625.           3.        2731                                                   -
39        625.           2.        2736-
40        625.          39.        27i40
Rates of Return:
On projections as above ...................... 10.12%
Cost Stream 2 increased 25% ..........  8.51%
Revenue Stream increased 25% ................ 12.95%
Revenue Stream reducee' 25% .................  6.64%
June 6, 1972



ANXEX J-!
Table 3                            Page 5
Rate of Return assuming total demand in Coastal Zone reduced by 10%
(at DH 1.Oq/m3)
DH Hundred Thouasnd
Year    1 rn,rT      2 c'sT s   1 BFN *
1- 2           0.        136.
I         11.         405.          2?.
4         34.         821.          54.
5         66.        1432.          82;
6        120.         85?          100-                     Dtxses
7        109.         349.         139.
e         737.7       1 1.         14g.          Cost Stream 1
9        179.         115;         216.             REI/ONEP operating costs.
10        212.            0         23.              Distribution costs
11        227.           0.         377e               (Capital and operating).
12        269*           0.         462?
13        291.         13q.         547*         Cost Stream 2
14        140-         334.f 647                     REI/ONEP's investment costs.
15        365.         281.         747.
16        410.         103.         8?2.          Revenues
17        43a.         253.         q7q-            Retail sales at DH l.OO/m3
18        416.         309 I.rG
19        433.         343         1147.
20        453.         26Q.        1232.
21        517.         3611        1X47*
22        5437.        48F.        1463.
23        533.         345.        1555.
24        560.          74.        16567
25        579.          22.        1756*
26        5980          52.        1856.
27        628;          48.7       1963;
28        6377          65.        20947
29        6777          61.        2179k
30        656.           3.        227M-.
31        623.           2         2318'
32        631.          39.        217?.
Ia        562*          33.       2372.
34        562.           2.        2372.
35        562.           3.        2372?
36        562.          75.        237?.
37        562.          710        2X7?.
36        562.          31.        2172
39        562.          27.        2172.
40        562*           3         2372?
Rate8 of Return:
On projections as above ....... ............ 8.57%
Cost Stream 2 increased 25% *................. 7.16%
Revenue Stream increased 25% .................l0.96%
Revenue Stream reduced 25%   ................... 5.46%
June 6, 1972






ANNEX 11
MOROCCO
CASA3LANCA - RAFAf BULE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
R.E.I.
GEOIIkAL INCOME STATED4ENTS 1968-70 (ALL ACTIVITIES)
Fiscal Year End  (December 31)                 .       1968     .  .        1969   ,    *       1970
E;ViS ~                                                 ----------------------Thousand Dirhams-----------------------
Sales                                                   17,332.3             18,282.7             19,667.7
uther Income from Services                               3,(11.4              8,112.8              6,994.2
Miscellaneous Revenues                                   5,674.6              3,295.0              5,882.6
Interest (net)                                             787.7                860.0                728.7
27,006.0            30533,273.2
'iXPFS'jDI TIJRE
Personlel hxpenses                                      11,071.1             11,797.3             12,357.2
Materials                                                3,513.1              4,284.7              4,882.7
dorks, Supplies, Services                                4,667.3              5,238.9              5,987.0
Transport & Travel                                         683.5                489.6                607.9
Taxes                                                    1,645.0              1,940.0              2,135.9
General Administrative Expenses                            549.6                694.6                934.0
22,129.6            24445.1              26,904.7
LESS Trans. to Capital A/c                               - 906.2              - 314.8              - 617.8
21,223.z             24,130.3            26,2566.
Depreciation                                             5,202.7              4,742.9              5,745.2
Provision for Lad Debts                                    574.7                --                 1,515.3
Provision for Stock Depreciation                            --                  110.7                --
27,000.8           22,953.9              33,547.4
UPEFtATINf, SUHPLUS (Deficit) for YEAR                           L05.2              1,561.0               (274.2)
Previous Years' Transactions and Non-
Recurring Receipts (Expenses)                            1,067.2               (777-4)               116.2
UVhP.ALL SUi-PLUS (Deficit)                                    1,872.4                783.6               (138.C)
AILOCArED BY COST ACCuoiJILGi AS:
Surplus on iater Services                                3,338. -  /          1,807.2                522.7
Surplus oni Commercial Services                            672.6                &2a.1              1,095.1
Deficit on Industrial Services                          (2,679-0)            (2,672.7)              (045.7)
Unallocated:            2/
Bad Debts Provisior-                                  ( 57.7)               -(1,515.3)
Other Income                                           913.0                78.0c                680.2
1,872.0                773.7               (158.-0)
1/   Eecause of changes in REl's accounting system, this
figure differs from that in Annex 13
2/    jater
March 13, 1972



ANNEX 12
MOROCCO
CASAHLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
R.E.I.
BALANCE SHEETS 1967-70 (ALL ACTIVITIES)
Fiscal Year End (December 31)                           1967             1968             1969          .     1970
A33L.                                                           ----------------------------Thousand Dirhams-----------------------
Fixed Assets 1/                                                 209,082.4          215,497.3         239,930.4          261,825.9
Less Depreciation                                               126,988.5          129,595.1         134,034.4          139,779.6 3/
N,et Fixed Assets                                          82,093.9          b5,902.2         105,896.0          122,046.3
Stocks (net of i)epreciation Provisiorn)                          5,996.6            4,767.0           6,686.8            4,928.9
Rechargeable ';hork in Progress                                    2,855.8           1,327.8           3,468.2            1,429.6
Accounts Receivable
Customers                                                  29,979.2          29,560.1           31,466.3          32,232.4
ther                                                      12,011.1          11,603.2  _       12,768.4           13,794.8
iL,990.3          51,163.3           5,234.7           46,027.2
Less Ead Debts Provisions                                    -829.3          -1,281.0           -1,168.8          -2,673.2
41,161.0          39,bb2.3          43,075.9           43,355.0
Cash and Hank                                                    52,U37.4           67,30W.2          61,02.7           42,527.1
other Assets                                                          95.9              12.0               11.9              12.0
18,o504.6         200,189.5          219,640.5         214,297.9
EJUITY &- LIABILI TIES
Capital 2                                                        59,950.4           75,772.5          96,256.5           96,489.5
Reserves & Consumer Contributions                                19,023.8           20,573.6          21,292.7           22,107.C
Revaluation of Assets                                            55,475.5           55,475.5          55,475.5           55,475.5
Less Accumulated Deficit on Incomne A/c                           -  325.3             --                *--             -  158.0
134,124.4         151,821.6         173,025.0          173,914.0
Pension Funds                                                        697.1             777.5              873.9             729.1
Insurance Provisions                                               2,209.1           2,209.1            2,209.1           2,209.1
Earned Surplus not yet remitted to Government                       __               1,872.L            2,656.1            --
Cther Accounts Payable                                            48,010.0          43,508.6          4O,876.4           37,445.7
185,0o0.6         200,19.5          219,640.5         214,297.9
1/   Includinp Work in Progress
2/   Almost wholly State-donated; figures shown here include works grants
not yet appropriated by RlET to capital pending completion of works
3/    Including some fully-depreciated assets deleted from the books by REI, but
taken into account by the idassion.
March 13, 1972



2ROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REI-ONEP Incoe Statenenta for All Water Activities - Actual (1968-1970) and Prajected (1971-1985)
Fiscal Tear End (Dece-ber 31)                                      1968      1969     1970     1971     1972     1973     1974    1975      1976      1977     1978     1979      1980     1981     1982     1983      1984     1985
---------------------_--___----------____--_______-___---_-------------_-_ Milion Dirhams -------------------------------------------------------------------
REVE1UE3
Water Sales 1/                                                  18.8     20.0    20.9    23.4    32.5         32.1     36.9    53.6      57.8     93.2    101.5   110.0    118.9    156.1   168.1   180.9    194.0    208.3
Govenrment Operating Subsidy (Distributior -  Interior)           -        -        -        -       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0        -        -        -        -
Other Income                                                     3.0      2.2      2.6      2.9      4.0      3.5       2.9      3.5      4.7      5.5       5.1      4.9      4.6      4.4       5.1      4.8      5.2       5.7
21.8     22.2    23.5    26.3       41.5     40.6    44.8    62.1        67.5   103.7   111.6   119.9    128.5   165.5    173.2   185.7   199.2   2)14.0
EXPENDITURE
Parohase of Water                                                1.8      1.9      1.9      2.5      3.1       -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -
Personnel Expenses                                               5.0      5.4      5.7      6.3      8.0      7.8       8.9     11.1     12.8     17.4     18.7      20.1     21.8     23.2      24.8     26.2     27.8      29.5
Power                                                            2.0      2.3      2.2      2.7      3.3      3.8       4.6      5.9      6.6      7.6       8.7      9.7     10.8     11.9      12.8     14.3     15.4      17.0
Chemicals                                                        0.2      0.2      0.5      0.7      0.9      1.0      1.3       2.2      2.6      3.1      3.7       4.2      4.8      5.5      6.1       6.9      7.7      8.5
SND Expenses                                                      -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -       7.2       7.2      7.2      7.2      7.2       7.2      7.2      7.2       7.2
Maintenance                                                      0.6      0.5      0.7      1.6      1.9      2.5       2.8      5.5      5.8      7.3       7.4      7.8      7.8      7.9       8.4      8.9      9.5       9.5
Head Office Epenaes                                              1.0      2.1      2.4      2.4      3.1      5.0       5.4      5.9      6.4      6.8       7.2      7.6      8.1      8.5       9.1      9.0      9.8     10.4
Tax an Water Sales                                               1.2      1.3      1.3      1.5      1.9      2.2       2.4      3.4      3.7      6.o      6.5       7.2      7.8     10.5     11.3      12.1     13.1     14.1
Other Operating Coats                                            2.6      3.1      3.7      3.4      4.3       3.8      3.6      4.4      5.4      6.1       6.o      5.9      5.9       5.9      6.4      6.4      6.7       7.2
Depreciation                                                     3.7      3.5      4.6    11.5    11.6    11.9          9.1    15.1    16.8       24.2      25.2     25.6     25.9    26.2       28.1     29.8     31.8      32.0
18.1     20.3     23.0     32.6    38.1      38.0    38.1    53.5        60.1    85.7      90.6      95.3   l00.1    106.8    114.2    120.8    129.0    135.4
NET OPERATING INCOME (DEIICIT)                                       3.7      1.9      0.5    (6.3)      3.4       2.6      6.7      8.6      7.4     18.0      21.0     24.6    28.4    58.7        59.0     64.9     70.2      78.6
Interest                                                          -        -        -        -         .9     7.7      12.1    14.6      15.5     13.9     18.7      18.0     17.2     16.3      15.5     14.7     13.7     12.7
NET INCOME (DEFICIT)                                                 3.7      1.9      0.5    (6.3)      2.5    (5.1)    (5.4)    (6.0)    (8.1)        4.1      2.3      6.6     11.2     42.4      43.5    50.2      56.5      65.9
OPERATING RATIO (After Depreciation)                                  .83      .91      .98     1.24       .92      .94      .85      .86       .89      .83      .81      .80       .78      .65      .66      .65       .65      .64
AVERWE NET FIXED ASSEIS                                             75       88      107      150      150      160       366      610      688      7514      781      768      754      782       832      871      881       857
% RETURN ON AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS                                N.A.    N.A.   N.A.    N.A.           2.3     1.6       1.8      1.4      1.1      2.4       2.7      3.2      3.7       7.5      7.1      7.5      8.0       9.2
1/ Net of Contributions to Water Eqnalization Punds (to 1971) and Contingency Provisions (fran 1971) (See Annex 20)
June 6, 1972



YROICO
CASABLA NCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REI ONEP
Cash Flow Stateennnt (Water Activites) - Actual (168-1970) ani Projectd (1971-1985)
Total
Fiscal Yea, Eni (December 31)                   1968     1969      1973     1971      1972     1973      1976     19W7      1976     1977      1971-77    1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985
---------------------_---------------------------------------------- M i 1 1 i co n D ir h- - -  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
SCURCES CF FUNDS
Net Operatirn  Iorme In                                         1/       -V     (6.3)      3.4      2.6       6.7      8.6       7.4     18.0       610.6     21.0      24.6       28.4    58.7      59.0      64.9     70.2      78.6
Depreciation                                         3.7      3.5       4.6     11.5      11.6     1l.9       9.1     18.1      16.8    27.2        100.2     25.2      25.6       25.9    26.2      28.1      29.8     31.8      32.0
Amortization (Marogement Assistance)_/                --                          -         -       0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6         3.0      0.6       0.6        0.6     0.6       0.6        -
Internal Cash Generation                         3.7      3.5      4.6       5.2     15.0      15.1     16.6      24.3      26.8     62.8       143.6     66.8      50.8       54.9    85.5      87.7     94.7    102.0    110.6
Government Contributians - Project                    -        -         -       2.0       1.7     36.5      31.8      9.5        -        -         81.5        -        -         -         -        -         -         -
- Others                 11.7     20.5       0.4      14.0     27.3      78.5     63.2      17.5     14.5      23.5      238.5        -                 39.0    30,0        _         _         -         _
Total Ooverneent Contribttions                  11.7    27M         0.l.    16.0    27.0   l11.0    q9.0          27.0      16.5     23.5       320.0       _         .        30.0    30.0        -         -         -        _
Capital Receiots                                    ( .7)     O.        3.8      9.        1.3      1.3       1.1      1.3       1.9      2.2        11.0      1.3       1.8        1.6     1.6        1.7      1.5      1.7       1.8
Loans - TBRD                                          -                                   b8.6     87.3      53.0     21.3       7.7      6.9       223.6        -        -
-SD Purch..e                                   -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -       0.3        60.0O
-Other                                         _-                                                       - _  _  _  _  _  _  _       _          _         _         _
Total Borrowi,g                                                                      4 68.6    87.0      83.0     21.3       7.7     4660       263.6
Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Payable            (2.0)      9.4      (8.9)    (1.9)    (1.0)    (1.5)    (1.5)    (1.0)        1.0      5.0        (0.9)     0.5       1.0       1.0       1.5      1.5       0.9      1.3       1.8
TOTAL SOURCES                                   12.7     33.0      (3.1)    20.2      32.9    216.0     1?5- 9              4       119.5       736.3     49.2      53.6      87.5     118.6    90.9       97.1    105.0    114.2
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures - Project..                      -        -         -       2.0     6t 7    136.1       30.1     41.9      1C.4     c3.E       403.8        -        -         -        -         -         -         -        -
_Project 2nd stage                                          -                                                                   -         -         -      18.8      45.5     38.3      14.0       34.5    38.1
- Production Interio,      (  7.7  ( 25.1  ( 21.3          3.2      8.8      33.0     41.2       7.8      1.1       8.2      103.3      14.8      13.1     28.9      27.1        .       5.2       18.0    19.3
- Production Distribution ( _       ( _      ( _          11.2     18.5     45.5      22.0       9.7     13.4      15.5      135.8       7.4       7.1     16.1      17.6       9.7      5.5        3,?      6.9
Total Inveemnent                                 7.7     25.1     21.3      16.4     93.0    214.6    153.3       58.5      29.9     77.2       662.9     22.2      202       63.8     90.2      48.0      24.7      60.8    6
Reneal of Project As.ets                                                                   -        -         -                                                                                                                    39
Management Assistance                                -        -         -        -        1.0      3.2       1.7       -                             5.9                                          -
Interest - TBRD                                      -        -         -        -        3-       7.7      12.7     14.6      1c.,     13.Q        64.7     11.l      1<.5      15.1      14.6     14.1      13.6       13.0    12.4
- SMD Purchase                                                                             -        -     _                      -           -       2.8      2.0       2.1       1.7      1.4       1.1        0.7      0.3
Amortization - TURD                                  -        -         -        -         -         -        -         _        _       2.6         2.6       5.-'     5.8       6.2       6.7       7.2      7.7        8.3     8.9
- SM9 Pna ch-s-                                                                                                             -           -        5.0      5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0        5.0     5.0
Tot,i Debt Service                                                                   0.9      7.7      12.1     11.6      15.1     16.1        67.3     29.1      28.8      28.4     28.0      27. 7    2      27     .0    26.6
Increase (Decrease) in Stocks,
Accounts Receivable, etc.                        (4.0)     3.0      (1.6)    (0.7)    (1.2)    (1.3)    (1.3)       3.M       2.1       8.9       10.0       1.8       3.7      2.3       2.4      3.7       2.6        2.5     3.5
Cosh Accrual (Outflo-)                              9.0      5.8    (22.8)      6.c      (0.8)    (7.9)    (1.8)    (3.7)       2.h      16.Q       13.?      (3.9)     0.9      (7.0)    (2.2)    11.5       42.6       14.7    15.9
TOTAL APPLICATION!S                            12 7     3 .        R11  93    7      92 13    300  099  o6          ??n 70-1  9-1    11'-      3. 3S2                3.O6    87.5    118.4      90.9      97.1      105.0   116.2
Cash at Beginning of Year                               42.,      11.3      7.7      36.9     39.L      38.6     J1.3      2'.'     2'.8      28.2                 6c.l      ;1.2     42.1      35.1      32.9     44.4       87.0   101.7
Cash at End of Yam.                                     p1.9      07.7     31,.3     3 1.)    38.6      31.3     2 .'      2 '8     28.2    'JC.1                  61.2      62.1     35.1      32.9      44.4      87.0     101.7   117.6
Debt Service Coverage (Times)                           0.a.      0.0.     0.a.      0.a.     16.6       2.0      1.4       1.7      1.6       2.6                  1.6       1.8      1.9       3.0       3.2       3.5       3.8      4.2
1/ Operating Surplus nct retained by REI.
2/ The To,rtisatoan of Yanagement aafistance is inoluded in "H.Q. Enpensesl in In-e Statement.
3/ Excludes locally-finanoed sacks of the Boo Regr-g dam whioh ace supposed to be v.sted in ONFP upon completion (137L) ant s B   Regreg dan in con-ider-d, f-0  oolc.lation purposes, as prt of ONEP'Y assets.
-   Includes SMD Purchase (DH 6  million) in 1977.
June 6, 1972
*             I



I ORlOCCO
CA3ABIANCA-3ABAT BULX 'AhE3  3UPPLY PROJECT
RET/ONEP
Bslance Sheets (Water Activities Only) - Actual (1967-1970) and Projected (1971-1985)
Fiscal Year End (December 31)           1967      1968       1969      1970      1970P     1971      1972       1973      1974      1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      1980      1981       1982      1983      1984       1985
--------------------------------------------------------------------- ------_Mi llion biirha ,s- _------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                                178       185        211       232       336       341       359        373       783       885       972       1137      1153      i161       1177      1269       1331      1406      1412      1420
Less Depreciation                           105       108        112       117       182       194       206        211       217       232       249        351       3S6        402       428       454        482       512       544        572
Net Fixed Assets                         73        77         99       115       154       147       153        167       566       653       723        786        777       759       749       815        849       894       869        848
Wark in Progress                            --------Included above -----_______--     --        12         87       261       105        66         8          10        16        28        76        74         61        10        64        121
Total Fined Assets                       73        77         99       115       154       159       240       428        671       719       731        796       793        787       825       889        910       904       932        96
Deferred Charge - Management Assistance      -          _         _         _         _         _           1         4         5         4         3           3         2         2         1         1         -
Stocks & Miscellane2gu, AssetsA               4          2         4         2         2         2         2          2         3         5         5          9          8         9         9         9         10        11        11         12
Accounts Receivable-                         21        19         20        21        20        20         19        17        15        17        19         24         26        29        31        33         36        38        40         42
Cash & Equivalent                            43        52         58        35        35        39        39         31        29        26        28         45        41         42        35        33         44        87       102        118
Total Current Assets                     68        73        82         58        57        61        60         50        47        48        52         78        75         80        75        75         90       136       153       172
TOTAL ASSETS                      141       150        181       173       211       220       300       482        723       771       786        877       870        869       901       965      1000       1040      1085      1141
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
Equity   -  Government, Municipal
etc. Contributions           53        64         85        85        85       101       130       240        445       476       490        526       526        526       556       586        586       586       586       586
- Consumer Contributions        21        21         21        22        22        23        24        23         22        23        25         28        29         31        32        34         36        38        39        4i
- Revaluation Surplus           49        49         49        49        87        87        87        79         70        70        70         70        70         70        70        70        70         70        70        70
- Earned Surplus                _         _          -_        _                   (6)        04)       (9)      (14)      (20)      (28        (24)       (22)      (15)       (4)       38        81        131       187       253
Total Equity                      123       134        155       156       194       205       237        333       523       549       557        600        603       612       654       728        773       825       882        950
Long Term DebtV  - TERD                   -          -         -         -         -         -        49        136       189       210       215        216        210       204       197       190        182       174       165        155
- SMD                    _         _         _          _         _                   -         -          -         -         -         35         30        25        20        15         10         5         -         -
- Other
Total Long-Term Debt                -          -         _         -         -         -         49       136       189       210       215        251        240       229       217       205        192       179       165        155
Accounts Payable & Provisions                 18         16        26        17        17        15         14        13        11        10        11          16        16        17        18         20        22        23        24         26
Current Mat-rities of Long-Term Debt          _         _          _          _        _          __       _        __          _   __3                         10        11        11        12         12        13        13        14         10
Total Current Liabilities                18         16        26        17        17        15        14         13        11        10        14          26        27        28        30         32        35        36        38         36
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES         141        150       181       173       211       220        300       482       723       771       786         877       870       869        901       965      1000      1040       1085      1141 *-
Debt/Equity Ratio                            0:100     0:100     0:100     0:100     0:100     0:100      17:83     29:71     27:73     28:72      28:72     29:71     28:72     27:73      25:75     22:78     20:80      18:82     16:84     14:86
Fined Assets revalued
3' Net of Bad Debts/Depreciation Provisions
Adjusted for Assets ceded to or transferred from other authorities during 1973-1977
/ Net of current maturities
June 6, 1972



MDROCCO
CASABLANCA-RABAT BULK WJATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PRINCIPAL WATER TARIFFS IN TOWNS SERVED BY REI/ONEP
kas at Jan. 1, 1972)
Approx                                              - - - - - - - -  Bulk Tariff - - - - - - - -            --etail Tariff--
Proportion     Bulk              Distribution          Price Rieceived ,by       Price Paid by
C4ty                  of Supply       Suipplier            Agency            Bulk SupplierDistrib on Ae                                 /3           Remarks
DH/M:-'                    DH m
Casablanca                      4%           IREI             Local Regie                1.0Q/                   0.4485                     )             Average tariff (domestic
77'P          SMD                 .                      0.3621                   o.4485                     ) 0.66         rate DH 0.6910/m3)
19%           Local Regie                                  -
Rabat                          50%            EEI                 "                      0.21Y2                   o.4485                     )  .60        Average taeiff (domestic
50 %          Local Regie          "                       -                                                 )              rate DE 0.60 or DH 0.699)
Sale                           All            REI             Municipality              0.15 2/                   o.4485                       0.53
Kenitra                        51%)           REI             Local Regis                0.29?1/                  o.4485                     ) 0.48
49%G          Local Regie
Marrakech                      All            -EI             Local Regie                0.0921                   0.09                         0-33
Mohammedia                     All            REI              EI                        0.232/                   0.4485                       o.60
Agadir                         All            iEI             G4rance3/                    -oA -/                                              0.68
El Jadida                      All            G6rance23       Gerance.2/                                                                       0.78-        Falls to DH 0.22 with in,
Goulmima                       All            iEI             REI                                                                              0.68       creasing consumption
Ydiq Restinga                  All            REI             REI-                                                                             0.80
Sidi Bouzid                    All            REI             RElI                                                                             0.80
Sidi Kacem                     All            'EI             REI                                                                              0.78
Mehdia                         All            .EI             REI                                                                              0.78
Safi                           All            REI             REI                                                                              o.85
Other Centers                  All            IEI             EI                                                                               0.65
j Where there is a difference between these two prices, the surplus or deficit accrues to a
Wfater Equalization Pund.
j Approximate (price fixed by formula, depending on volume supplied).
3/ "G4rance" indicates that the Municipality is the titular water authority but
delegates functions to REI as agent.
/  Bulk supply invoiced at cost of production - noifficial price per m3 yet fixed.
J 4
January 4, 1972



MOROCCO
CASABLANCA-RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REI/ONEP
SECTIONAL OPERATING INCOME STATEMENTS (PROJECTED) - 1971-85
I. Production (Costal Zone)
Fiscal Year End (December 31)                       197.        1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980         1981        1982        1993        1984        1985
Volume of vater produced (Million   )               33.3        40.1        4.o         55.3        60.9        63.1       135.8       147.0       159.1       171.7        184.8       199.3       214.4       230.7       247.9
Percentage loss in trnasln4.8                                    4.7         4.7         4.9         4.9         429         2.9         2.9          2.8         2.8         2.8         2.7         2,7         2.7         2.7
Voloas of water sold (Million m3)                   31.7        38.2        42.9        52.6        57.9        eo.o       131.9       142.8      i14.6         166.9       179.7       193.9       208.6       224.5       241.3
Average Rate per m3 sold                             0.39        o.45        o.45        o.45        o.45        0.45        o.45        o.45         o.45        0.45        0.55        0.55        0,55        0.55        0.55
-------------------------------------------------------------------------iThousand Dirham-s_____________________-_
Pevenues
Sales                                        12,360      17,190      19,300      23,6(0      26,060      27,000      59,360      64,260       69,570      75,100      98,840      106,650     114,700     123,480     132,700
Le.a Irrecover-ble a,ul Contingencies          --          -340        -390        .590        -650        -810      -1,780      -2,250       -2,780      -3,380      -4,480       -5,330      -5,740      _6,790      -7,960
12.360     i6.850       18,910      23,080      25,410      26,190      57,580      62,010      66,790      71,720      94,360       101,320    1o0,960    116,690       124,740
Eapenses
Persornel                                     1,960       2,360       2,510       3,160       3,450       3,620       7,140       7,390        7,660       7,910       8,210        8,490       8,780       9,970        9,360
Power (emol. OHS)                 ~~~~~~~1,710  2,130     140         3,1          3,300       3,680       4,310       4,900       5,700       6,450       7,250        7,820        9,000       9,720      10,960
Cheoa  (-xcL    SMD) R5)60o                                 750         8660      1,040       1,280       1,450       1,830       2,240        2,660       3,120       3,590        4,100       4,650       5,230        5,850
Maintenance - Dan                              --                      --          --           700         720         720         720          720         720         720          720         720         720          720
- Other (e-sl. SD)                1,000       1,200       1,770       1,870       3,110       3,110       4,580       4,58o       4,800        4,800       4,800        4,800       5,300       5,800       5,800
PoneM & Other Coats (SIM Inntallstio..)        --          --          --          --          --          --         7,200       7,200        7,200       7,200       7,200        7,200       7,200       7,200       7,200
Miscellaneouos                                  470         480         490         600         630         650         660          670         670         680         690          690         700         700          710
Share of Head Office Expenses                   750         890       1,570       1,890       1,790       1,780       2,780       2,830        2,910       2,900       2,950        2,990       3,o60       3,090        3,140
Tan -o Water Sales Outside HEI/ONEP             630         880       1,210       1,470       1,620       1,670       3,670       3,960       4,440        4,790       6,310        6,800       7,320       7,880       8,460
0on~r26OtLoo to Rq tslideo PEIONd          ,00P                  - -,21        -47         --62       i--                       --                      -           --                        --
Depre-iation                                  7,100       7,100       7,100       4,300       7,500       8,200      15,200      15,600       15,600      15,600      15,500       15,500      16,800      18,400       18,400
Contribution to Equalization FUnd             1,900        --          -_          __          --          __          __          __           __          __          __           __          ___                      _ 
16,080      15,790      17,970      17.440      23,380      24,880      48,090      50,180      52,360      54,170       57.220       59,110      63,530      67.810      70,600
Net Operating Income (Deficit)                    (3,720)      1,060         940       5,640       2,030       1,310       9,490       11,630      14,420      17,5)2      37,140       42,210      45,430      40,280       24,140
June 6, 1972



MCROCCO
CASABI.ANCA - RARAT BULN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REI/ONEP
SECTIONAL OPERATING INCOME STATEMEN    (PROJECTED) - 1971-85
II - Distrtbutton - Small Coastal Centers =d Interior
--Coastal Centers_                                            -______________--__________________Interior------------------- ---------------------                                       -  --
Fiscal Year &Ed (TaeeRher  31)                   1971       1972       1971        1972       1973        1974       1975        1976       1977        1978       1979        1980        1981       1982        1983       1984        i985
Sales (million m3)                                4.93       5.70      14.11       16.08      17.88       16.14      18.14       20.96     24.25       27.14      29.77       32.15       34.26      36.78       39.04       41.51       J4.25
New Con.saers                                   1,120      1,280      4,290       6,560      6 680       5,380      6,68o        9,370    10,970      9,640      8,780       7,920       7,030      8,410       7,550       8,230       9,130
Total Consumers                                 8,960     10,240     48,890      55,450     61,4701V   55,65a/   62,330         71,700    82,670    92,310    101,090    109 010 I116,o4o    124,450    132,000           140,230    149,360
Purchases (Million m3)                            5.87       6.78                                                                        -           -                      -            -
Averag. rats per m3 (Dirhams)                     o.62       o.65        0.65       0.65       o.65        0.65       0.65         0.65      c.65       c.65       o.65        0.65        0.75       0.75        0.75        0.75        0.75
Revenu-s
Water Rate Billings                           3,060      3,710      9,170      10,450     11,620      10,490     11,790       13,620   15,760      17,640     19,350      20,900      25,700     27,580      29,280      31,130      33,190
Le.. Bad Debts & Contingencies                - 150      - 190      - 460       - 520      - 580       - 520      - 590        - 68o    - 790       - 880      - 970      -1,050     -1,290      -1,380     -1,46o       -1,560      -1,660
Connection Charges                             1450        510      1,720       2,640      2,670       2.150      2,670        3,750    4,390      3,860       3,510       3,16o      2,810      3,360        3,020       3,360      3,650
Mi-sellaneouo  Peen                             120        140        66o         750        830         750        840          970    1,130      1.250       1,360       1,470        5 70     1i68o       1,780        1,89o      2,020
3.480      4,173     11.0        13,320     X.,.3       12,870     t..713       17,660   23,L30      21,870     23,250      2L-L30  _28fl__   31,230           32,620      34,820      37,200
Expenses
Purchase of eater                           2,460        3,050          -
Personnel                                      690         930      3,570       14,610     5,llo       5,oio      5,770        6,850    7,890      8,950       9,910      10,8.0     11.,790     12,940     13,990       15,190     16,530
Power                                           20          20        870       1,020      1,170       1,090      1,260        1,500    1,740      1,940       2,130       2,300      2,450       2,640      2,800        2,970      3,170
Chericals                                       30          40         90         100        170         110        130          150      170        190         210         230        250         260        280          300         320
Maintenance                                    4o           50        44o         500        56o         66o        730          780      830        880         910         950      1, 020      1,080      1,110        1,1140     1,170
New Connection3                                30°         340      1,150       1,760      1,980       1,440      1,780        2,500    2,930      2,570       2,340       2,110      1,870       2,240      2,010        2,200       2,440
Conooers' Maintenance                           40          50        220         250        280         250        280          320      370         420        460         490        520         560        590          630         670
Mincellanseos                                  200         230      1,o5o       1,i60      1,260       1,190      1,330        1,540    1,720      1,890       2,030       2,160      2,280       2,430      2,550        2,690      2,840
Share of Head Office Expensse                  260         350      1,310       1,750      3,350       3,130      3,130        3,480    3,070       3,390      3,770       4,060      4,430       4,880      4,770        5,460      6,000
Tax on Water Sales                            190          220        560         630        700         640        710          830      960      1,070       1,170       1,270      ],640       1,760      1,870        1,990      2,120
Depreoiation                                   590         580      3,410       3,530     3,830/       3,760_    4,820         5,200    5,510      5.920       6.250       6.4906   776           7   0       79
4,820       5,860     12,670      15,310    18,190       17,280     19,940       23,150   25,190      27,220     29S2  3,i2_..3.OlO}   J6.gho                   .          ho.67  Si    3.390
Net Operating Incone (Deficit)                (1,340)      (1,690)   (1,580)     (1,090)   (3,650)       (4,44121    (5,230)    (,Lo0)  (14,713)    (5,300)    (5,930)    (6,420)    (4,220)    (4,800)    (5,050)          (5,690)    (6,190)
V/ Adjwsted for centers transferred to other authorities.
Jane 6, 1072



M3ROCCO
CASABIANCA-RABtT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REI/ONEP
SEWTIONAL OPERATING INCOME STATEMENS (PROJECTED) - 1971-85
III - Production (Interior Cities)
Fiscal Year End (December 31)              1071       1'72      1073      1774      1971      1'76      1077      1978      1)70      1980      1081      1982      1983      1984      1985
Sales (Million m3)                                   15.00      15.00    1.00      26.9Q     50."      56.05    62.00     68.23     74.75     82.o2     89.29     97.05     105.45    114.17    124.42
Average rate per m  (Dirhams)                         0.09       0.15      0.1      0.15      0.35     0.35      0.35      0.35      0-35      0-35      0.64      0.44       0.44      0.44       o.44
---------------------------------T--------------------Thousand Dirhas-----------------------------------------_____
Revenues
Bulk Sales of Water                             1,300      2. 2 r    2,2e0    h,060    17,6)   1'),620    21,700    23,880    26,160    28,710    39,290    62,700    46,400    50,230    54,740
LessIrrecoverable & Contingencies                 --         -60       -60      -160      -71)      -)50   -1,080    -1 1'Y9   -1,310    -1,6460    1,0'60    2,'10    -2,320    -2,510    -2,740
1,300     210       2,1'0    3,SSO   16,9ff    10,6O    20,620    22,69D    2,S50    27,270    37,330    40,560    6,000  - 7,720    52,000
Expenses
Personnel                                         100        130       150       700     1,900     2,280    2,360     2,420     2,500     3,040      3,230     2,340     3,440     3,540     3,650
Power                                             150        160       160       370    1,310      1,470    1,600     1,740     1,910     2,030      2,140     2,330     2,510     2,680     2,900
Chemicals                                          20         20        20       140       850       950    1,110      1,240     1,360    1,500      1,640     1,790     1,970     2,130     2,330
Maintenance                                       140        150       160       320       930     1,200     1,210     1,270    1,310     1,310      1,370     1,800     1,800     1,860     1,860
Miscellaneous                                      20         30        30       130       350       420       620       420      420       490        500       500       500       500       500
Share of Read Office Expenses                      40         50        90       620       990    1,150        920       950       950    1,130      1,160     1,180     1,200     1,210     1,230
Tax on Water Sales                                 80        140       260       260     1,080     1,190     1,320     1,450     1,590     1,740     2,510    2,730      2,960     3,200     3,490
Depreciation                                      430        630       ccO    1,030      2,7vO     3,440     3,680     3,6(0     3,790     3,790     3,970     5,300     5,300     5,450     5,450
5y TTII           1,0       3,370   10,160    12.100 l             3,140   13,ff30   l , 030    1           I        19,6ffO   20,570  --21,10O
Net Operating Income                                   320      1,080       7)0       rl)    6,820      6,c4O    8,200    0,:r)    11,020    12,240    20,810    21,590    24,400    27,150    30,590
june 6, 1972






ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 6 pages
MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A - General
Personnel Expenses
1.        REI/ONEP's personnel costs per employee are assumed to increase
as follows:
(a)  Increase of 10 o/o over 1970 levels - July 1, 19711/
(b)  Further 15 o/o increase on (a)        - January 1, 1972
(c) Further 6 o/o increase (compound) each January 1, 1973-76
(d) 3 o/o increase (compound) each January 1, 1977-85.
2.        These changes reflect ONEP's need to achieve and maintain
recruitment potential in competition with other employment, and are
additional to any increase in numbers of personnel indicated in subsequent
paragraphs.
Other Costs
3.        A 3 o/o price increase annually to 1976 is assumed for power,
chemicals, miscellaneous expenses, SMD personnel costs (after takeover),
and capital investment costs. Price escalation is not applied to maintenance
costs, since these are estimated as a percentage of cumulative investment.
Head Office Expenses
4.        Head Office staff are assumed to increase by 10 o/o in 1972, and
by 3 o/o a year thereafter, to fill staffing gaps. The cost of management
assistance is treated as capital expenditure and amortized over 10 years.
Other headquarters costs are assumed to increase by 5 o/o - 10 0/0 a year,
subject to some cutback in 1973 with the forecast cessation of non-water
activities. These activities are similarly assumed to bear a share of
overheads until the end of 1972, the balance (and from 1973, the whole)
being apportioned to the various water sub-sectors broadly in proportion
to personnel costs.
1/   Now in force, retroactive to date shown.



ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 6 pages
Tax
5.        Water sales tax is assumed to remain at 6.38 o/o of sales to other
authorities and to the public. Other taxes are included in "Miscellaneous".
B - SMD Concession, Casablanca
6.        This concession 1/ may, by the terms of the Concession Agreement,
be wound up after 25 years of existence or at any interval of 5 years there-
after; the Government has indicated that it will take repossession at the
earliest opportunity, January 1, 1977. Compensation is payable, but the
amount depends on SMD's profits during the seven years preceding reposses-
sion. For purposes of the financial projections, the following assumptions
as to the cost of re-acquisition, the method of payment and the vaLue of
assets acquired have been supplied to the Bank by the WHO/UNDP con3ultants.
The figure for re-acquisition cost, in particular, is almost certain to
change. However, even a substantial change in this figure would not have
a material effect on the financial projections.
Re-acquisition Cost:      DH 40 million
Method of Payment:        8 annual instalments at 7 o/o interest.
Value of Assets Acquired: DH 130 million gross, DH 52 million net.
7.        SMD's operating costs were projected forward to 1977 on infor-
mation obtained from the Company, allowing for 3 o0o annual increase in
personnel costs and for price escalation and increased
volumes of water in the case of other operating expenses. SMD's personnel
are assumed to be already remunerated at commercial-sector levels.
C - Transfers of Functions
8.        The program of transfers of water supply systems and activities,
formulated by the Government and used in projections, is as follows:
Production (coast)
SMD concession       Trans. to ONEP            January 1, 1977
1/   The concession system for public utility services is found in a number
of former French territories. The Government grants the concessionnaire
the right to establish and/or operate an enterprise; on termination of
the concession, the right revests in the Government, together with the
fixed assets of the enterprise (including those provided by the con-
cessionnaire).



ANNEX 20
Page 3 Of 6 pages
Production/Distribution
Interior: Moulay Yakoub        Trans. to Regie (Fes)           January 1, 1973
Boufekrane           Trans. to Regie (Meknes)        January 1, 1973
Mdiq Restinga        Trans. to Regie (Tetouan)       January 1, 1974
El Jadida (Gerance) Trans. to Regie (El Jadida)   January 1, 1974
Ait Melloul          Trans. to Regie (Agadir)        January 1, 1974
Inezgane             Trans. to Regie (Agadir)        January 1, 1974
Agadir (Gerance)    Trans.1/ to Regie (Agadir)    January 1, 1974
Safi                 Trans.1/ to Regie (Safi)        January 1, 1974
Coastal:  Temara                Trans. to Regie (Rabat)         January 1, 1973
Skhirat              Trans. to Regie (Rabat)         January 1, 1973
Sidi Bouknadel       Trans. to Regie (Rabat)         January 1, 1973
Bouznika             Trans. to Regie (Rabat)         January 1, 1973
Mohammedia           Trans. to Regie (Casablanca)  January 1, 1973
Ellouizia            Trans. to Regie (Casablanca)  January 1, 1973
Ain Harouda          Trans. to Regie (Casablanca)  January 1, 1973
Mehdia               Trans. to Regie (Kenitra)       January 1, 1973
Production (Interior)
Tangier        ONEP responsible for new production facilities 1973/4
Tetouan        ONEP responsible for new production facilities 1974
Fes            ONEP responsible for new production facilities 1974
Meknes         ONEP responsible for new production facilities 1974
Essaouira      ONEP responsible for new production facilities 1974
Agadir         ONEP responsible for production only
(existing and future)    January 1, 1974
Safi           ONEP responsible for production only
(existing and future)    January 1, 1974
1/ Distribution functions only transferred.
D - Production (Coastal Zone)
9.        Sales projections were based on the estimates in Annex 9, subject
to a reduction for contingencies and irrecoverables rising from 2 o/o in
1972 to 6 olo in 1985. Transmission losses were assumed to be 2.1/2 o/o
for the Oum Er-R'Bia system (SMD) and the Bou Regreg, and approximately
5 olo for the Fouarat and Grou.
10.       Personnel costs are based on 240 staff in 1970 at an average cost
of DH 7,800 per year; new staff required for the expanded installations



ANNEX 20
Page 4 of 6 pages
will be 44 persons in 1974 rising to 77 in 1985, based on consultants' es-
timates. In addition, personnel costs are increased from 1977 onwards to
reflect acquisition of the SMD concession.
11.       Power costs are assumed at DH 0.05/m3 (1970 base price), based on
recent costings, reducing slightly after 1974 as the proportion of more
costly Grou water falls relative to overall volume.
12.       Chemical costs are taken at DH 0.03/m3 for river water (Bou Regre,
and Grou) and DH 0.007/m3 for ground water (Fouarat). These prices are at
1970 levels, based on 1968-70 costings.
13.       Maintenance costs are assumed to commence the year after entry into
service, rising after two years to roughly 1 o/o of gross asset values (dams
0.4 o/o).
14.       SMD costs are referred to in Section B of this Annex.
15.       Miscellaneous expenses are calculated at 24 o/o of personnel costs
at 1970 rates (based on 1968-70 accounts for the Fouarat system) rising in
proportion to the number of personnel, and subject to 3 o/o a year price
escalation to 1976.
16.       Investment costs for the project were estimated by consultants
and reviewed by the Bank; those for the second phase were estimated by
the Bank. Depreciation is calculated as follows, commencing the year after
entry into service (present Moroccan practice):
Assets existing at January 1, 1971: at rates, and on
current values, established by consultants, and
projected forward on the residual life of each asset.
SMD installations: 3 o/o a year
New REI/ONEP installations: Dam 80 years; others
on an average life of 35 years, representing a weighted
average of 40 years (pipes and civil engineering) and
15 years (equipment, pumps and motors).
E - Production/Distribution
17.       Sales projections were based on estimates made by REI for each
center, and reviewed by the Bank, allowance being made for cession of
various centers to other authorities. Distribution losses for coastal
centers are taken at 16 o/o. A provision for contingencies and irrecover-
ables was deducted, at the rate of 5 o/o of sales.



ANNEX 20
Page 5 of 6 pages
18.       New consumers are estimated on the basis of one for each 300 m3
additional sales, based on recent trends, except for coastal centers where
the rate used was one per 600 m3; the difference reflects the greater
importance of industry and tourism in coastal centers.
19.       Connection charges are assumed at DH 400 per new consumer, front-
age levy (a capital receipt) at DH 200 per new consumer, and annual service
fees at DH 13.5 per consumer; related costs, where separated in REI's
accounts, are taken at 2/3rds of connection fees and 1/3rd of service fee
receipts respectively. These assumptions are based on an analysis of 1970
costings; since such fixed charges tend to lag behind inflation, they were
not adjusted for price escalation in projections.
20.       Personnel costs are calculated from a 1970 figure of DH 600,000
for coastal centers and DH 3.2 million for the interior (418 persons at
DH 7,600 average). Thereafter, numbers are assumed to increase at two-thirds
of the rate of increase in sales (based on a survey of personnel costs in
different centers), but subject also to a reduction of 5 ofo over 3 years
as surplus staff are eliminated. Per capita salaries follow the basis out-
lined in Section A of this Annex.
21.       Power costs are forecast at DH 0.06/m3 sold and chemicals at
DH 0.006/m3 sold (1970 price levels) for the interior.  For the coast,
separate calculations were made center by center.
22.       Maintenance is calculated at only 0.4 o/o of gross fixed assets,
because some maintenance expenditure here is charged as "Miscellaneous
Expenses" in REI's accounts. For coastal centers, the rate is lower still
at 0.2 o/o since these systems are fairly new and are being disposed of to
other authorities.
23.       Miscellaneous expenses are based on 30 o/o of personnel costs at
1970 rates (derived from 1968/70 costings excluding the Fouarat system)
subsequently increasing in proportion to the number of personnel.
24.       Except for the coastal centers, where a known program exists,
capital expenditure was forecast on two different bases. For production
installations, consultants made estimates to meet the demand forecast; for
distribution works a rate of DH 1.50 (1970 price levels) per additional
m3 sold was used. The latter rate was established by comparing distribu-
tion networks of different-sized centers, and checked by reference to RAD
(Casablanca) where the ratio is DH 1.90 per m3. Work-in-progress at each
year-end is taken as one-quarter of the year's distribution works and
two-thirds of the production works of the year.
25.       Depreciation of existing assets is calculated as described under
"Production (Coastal Zone)"; for new installations, 3 o/o a year (2-1/2 o/o
coastal centers) was used, subject to adjustment for assets ceded to other
bodies.



ANNEX 20
Page 6 of 6 pages
F - Production (Interior Cities)
26.       Bulk sales are based on detailed projections for every city, made
by consultants or by REI; a provision of 2-1/2 o/o rising to 5 o/o in 1976
and after is deducted for contingencies and irrecoverables. The projections
reflect the timetable in Section C of this Annex.
27.       Personnel expenses are forecast on the numbers of staff estimated
by consultants to be required at each system. Power costs vary from zero
to DH 0.07/m3 (1970 price) depending on the system, and chemical costs from
zero to DH 0.03/m3.
28.       Maintenance costs and miscellaneous expenses are projected on the
same basis as for "Production (Coastal Zone)".
29.       Investment expenditure projections are based on detailed forecasts
made by consultants for each city. Depreciation is at the rate of 3 o/o
(dams 1-1/4 o/o) commencing the year after entry in service.
G - Balance Sheet
30.       For balance sheet projections, the following assumptions were
adopted.
(a) Accounts Receivable (consumers) - gradually brought down to
represent approximately 3 months' revenues (2 months' for
bulk production) from 1975 onwards.
(b) Accounts Receivable (other) - kept at a constant figure since
items relating to "gerances" should gradually disappear.
(c) Accounts Payable - brought down to a level equivalent to
approximately 3 months' operating expenses, other than de-
preciation, from 1975 onwards.
(d) Stocks - equivalent to about 6 months' expenditure on new
connections.
(e) Other Assets (comprising rechargeable work in progress,
deposits and minor investments) - assumed to remain fairly
static.



MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
YEAR                  1970                      1971                       1972                       1973                       1974                      1975                       1976
ITEM          QUARTER    1234                            12 134                    1         3  14   ff12 13   4       1  2   3 1   4 I12   34                                                 12             4
Rec-dto   Oil    II - n   wel s& epaP., a at -p pone
REHABILITATION FOUARAT SYSTEM                              ~1                              o                 
RELOCATION PUMPING STATION                                                                      EPI.  -o~ 0       M&Op qoip-tn        -oss         Ope-at
TEMPORARY GROU RESERVOIR                                                                                                                            t     -
Design,      BR  idd-ng                                                             I osrcto  a    Dam nt.a  n Equ,ptri-n
BOU REGREG DAM 
a                                         25% Rii--il~~~25 
INTAKE & TUNNEL                                                                   I,B&          l
O4Bidd.ng               M   A 0 Eq.pm 1 
A  Eq..pm,,nt                                                                               3
D.i.POBidding          Cons-o  Tonne &  n ak0         Cnmpl,,te
B. C-Ic VWork,                                                                   -I0
I            I~~~~ 
Design      Bidding       M                                                                    iiPp
RAW WVATER PIPELINE                                                                                                                                                                   if <0
PUMPING STATION                                                                                                           IInnl&                                      c                  
Qe-igo PSED                              D       Po-ps   Install    Test           4 
A  Pomps                                                                                                                                             ME*__  4I                    oT
T                                     IT              I       0)               C                             C
II              <               0-                             <
B Electical Eqoipmen-t                                                                      I .                                -                                                                                 4
O1  BR &          CI ItI, t 
Do          I.iBdg               Pmp 1- atiH n         C-mpleiti,         .
C  Cicil Works                                                                                    .         ~-                                                                     -c
BR                                             I
TREATMENT PLANT                                                                     D-V serBidd.,,,ga M & DsE-- p-
66000    00 C-uct                2 t.g                  CElE           jOperet-& P.        n-qe.ts
D.         -   d     ER&A             InstalIPipF-.y M &DPip.  a. P'P.
PIPELINE TO CASABLANCA
ABBREVIATIONS                                                                                                                     SYMBOLS 
Pgo     P,ep.te Bid D-c,mnnt                                                                                                                   A,n Actiitt                                                       33
PR      B-1, Rocv   o f Bid DO-riinr--ct-s  -C-n -tren
EREA   E-aloot Bids, Re-n- lV Bank -nd Acootd Cont-act                                                                             0 0 00 0  Pl--d0 Delay
M  E U   Manotacr-r and Delicet
CEIE    C-ons-c and Install Eqiipitrnnn                                                                                                                                             WVorlo BanE- 6577 (RI






MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PRODUCTION DEMAND - FORECAST AND AVERAGE YEARLY PRODUCTION CAPACITY
FOR THE URBAN AREAS BETWEEN CASABLANCA AND KENITRA
MILLION                                                                                                                    RESOURCES
M3/YEAR      M3/SEC                                                                                      2nd PIPELINE TO
CASABLANCA J
300-                                                                                                     '   ' 
_9
1st PIPELINE TO             TREATMENT
CASABLANCA  SMD           PLANT
-8                                          BANK PROJECT  CONCESSION   (2nd PHASE)
TAKEN OVER  13m3/secl
BY ONEP'
-7
200
-6
BANK IDA PROJECT
BOU REGREG DAM
AND             -+                    \PRODUCTION                                    BOU REGREG RIVER
_5 -                     TREATMENT PLANT                       _                   DEMAND
(2nd PHASE, 3m3/seci
TEMPORARY                                                                                                             E
BOU REGREG_
DAM AN D_
-4  TREATMENT PLANT                      5
100 - (1m3 sec) g; ffi"* """""""ecsfce ~~~~~~~~MAMORA WELL FIELD
, §00ll                         1|-lt                  l *       tt*ttt-ts-"-"" R """+-t
3_Issolksis                                                                m 
-2                                    -                                     _  \ -- OUED MELLAH
I                                                                                  OUM ER REBIA RIVER
S.M.D. CONCESSION
......RAD LOCAL RESOURCES
-- .... .. ................. ......................  .....                                                      RED LOCAL RESOURCES
O - , ,.,,,, .. :::: :                                       W                                                   ;     I , i   r-  IRAK LOCAL RESOURCES
1966        1968       1970       1972         1974       1976        1978        1980        1982       1984
CONSTRUCTION                                                                                              >
BOU REGREG PROJECT                                                                                           -
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ACTUAL OR ESTtMATED                                        PROJECTED
BULK WATER PRODUCTION
CAPACiTY REN1ONEP






CHART 3
MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION AND PER CAPITA DEMAND
INCLUDING COMPARISON WITH OTHER REGIONS
Annual Per Capita Population
Growth  Demand  (Million)
Rate (%) (Liters per                    -                -
day)
Population Morocco
_                   -        - _    Z;$;l~~~~~~~~~/cd  * Bogota (Colombia)
_ .gs __ it"'i vu1I                   I*                             Population Casabanca
200            s        _     f       _ 20
_ _ ~ ~ ~   |    - ~~~~1  l     I   ffi ~~~~~I/cd * Tunisian cities
_ ~  ~~~~ ~~~~                      ~      I -11 -=        I  II f|    s s§  ||   I/cd * Coastal Zone*+
10 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~al
10100           1 -.. 1ii  'sssea   R~~J5  _                     guil  ls   9   *rs3  ~lIs l/cd * Casablanca
l  W-or  r  +a_1_  ^ ^v: 5  fl   .    Population growth rate
_           _                            _ I    I                 Bogota (Colombia)
5   50              F20L ;s+EE5_.,t   tPplto rwhrt
_pliCasablanca
PopulaTin growh raties
10    ~01   0 Secd *ClogaStaone
K   Actual or Estimated       Projectedvist%
I/cd ~ ~ ~ ~ 6                   w%s Per Capita Demandsalanc
$ Served by Project
World Bank--644113R)






MOROCCO
CASABLANCA - RABAT BULK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REI/ONEP - ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
;~~~~~~~             ~.        L.      SOAR OFOIECTR                                                                         L
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~ ~                         
I                                                                                                                                RV |
I                                                                {
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~3
r
I1
] f* ]COTS11-  t| ZINUSRA
iDMfNtTRAT1t  |   FNANCE | | NINTPDF||PDUEEN                                                              WAE   PLY                                                         SRIS 
j PESONEL  f  usw .. |  (iMERI  ;}_ WRSIP|
j   SCIA   l ;    Cs r 1                  GoEPN1EX |=_|   RAV
5ERVCESl    l  CCONTIGs |l   CFS 
q   LEGL   l      BlLING                j  SPPLI5  j 
i ~~~~~~~~~INSRNE||PRHS              EIN
CONTROl~~~~~~~~~~~ LENTACT                                                                                                           INU|A
AOMINISTRATION  FINANCE  SIISISYRY  OF  PRTCUVESIFNT                                                                                      sERvicEs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wrl  6nk   ^3(?






0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
[3 ;   X                              AP    0  z-0                G
01~~~~~~~~~~~
400~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ue2H32u00 0                                                                           K0|7t04.a .   f  
0:=s~~ ~~ 4IH 00;                                                                     0 1Oe**O X ; -  :-000\i
'                                       <  ''
II|   i   0 00   9  1W  u                                                    = ,  0=:|  '  A
ui t                      EeX                   X004          00           =; 
r yZ:          'iti    'i           XrXl0                    0-   /    
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






oz
>>
X                                                     *                     ~~~~~~~~~~~0   >
IILL~~~~~T
o~~~~~~~~~~
.~~ ~~ a                                                 ~      X            >>0  |            Xt           w     
Q  -o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
L                                                                                                                        0 -
o            _*                                           0                                 ,\' 
-O   0    8          f      O  X    *-                   3@                                             °~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0                                                                        0      '0*  
o  *                         00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
=:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



