Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A- 36-O0-~ kE
Repoi No. P-4819-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 73.6 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
OF SDR 7.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
May 24, 1988
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department, Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee of
theb offial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Kenyan Shilling
US$1.0 - KSh 17.0 = SDR 0.72 (April, 1988)
ABBRVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DPI      Development Finance Institutions
ECS      Export Compensation Scheme
EPR      Effective Protection Rate
EPZ      Export Processing Zone
FIPA     Foreign Investment Protection Act
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDB      Industrial Develipment Bank of Kenya
IPE      Industrial Public Enterprise
KIE      Kenya Industrial Estates
MIB      Manufacturing-in-bond
NEFI     Near-bank Financial Institutions
NSE      Nairobi Stock Exchange
PP       Policy Framework Paper
SAP      Structural Adjustment Facility
SAL      Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE      Statements of Expenditures
GOVERNHEN? OF RENYA FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KENYS -.INDUSTRIAL SECSOR ADJUSTIENT CREDIT PRESIDUT'S REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate
CREDIT SUNQARY                                                        iv
PART I.     THE ECONOMY                                                1
Basic Structural Characteristics                           1
Past Performance                                           2
External Debt                                              4
Development Strategyt The Sessional Paper                  4
Stabilization                                              4
Medium-term Macroeconomic Framework, 1988-90               5
PART II.    BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN KENYA                6
Bank Strategy                                              6
IFC Operations                                             8
Coordination with the IMf                                  8
Coordination with other Donors                             9
PART III.   SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                9
Sector Background                                         9
Government Program and IDA Strategy for the
Industrial Sector                                      10
Policy Reforms                                            11
Trade Regime                                             12
Investment Incentives                                    16
Public Enterprises                                        17
Financial Sector                                         18
Conclusions                                              19
PART IV.   THE PROPOSED CREDIT                                        19
Background and Rationale for IDA Involvement             19
Credit Description                                       20
Financing P'sn                                           20
Disbursement and Procurement                             21
Audits, Reporting and Monitoring                          22
Impact of the Program                                    23
Risks                                                    24
PART V.    RECOMMENDATION                                             24
Tables
Table ls    Present Import Schedules                                  12
Table 2:    Proposed Import Schedules                                 13
Table 3s   External Financing                                         21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorafton.



- iii -
Annexes
Annex I:    Economic Indicators
Annex IT:  National Accounts
Annex IIIs External Trade
Annex IV:   Balance of Payments (page 1)
External Financing Requirements 1987-1995 (page 2)
Annex Vs   External Capital and Debt
Annex VI:   Public Finance, Money and Credit
Annex VII: The Status of Bank Group Operations in Kenya
Annex VIII: Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
Annex IX:   Letter of Industrial Policy
Annex X:   Summary of Government Reform Program
Annex XI:   Studies to be Undertaken under ISAC I
Mal):       IBRD-12438R2



- iv -
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower: Government of Kenya
ExecutinA Agency:   Ministry of Finance
Credit Amounts   IDAs                SDR 73.6 million (US$102 m)
African Facility: SDR 7.2 million (US$10 m)
Termst  Standard IDA and African Facility terms.  IDA Credit
has a 35 year maturity.
Description and   The  proposed  Credits  would  support the  first phase
Allocation of   (1988-90)  of the  Government's  medium-term adjustment
Credit:   program for  the industrial  sector.  These reforms are
Intended to stimulate investment, promote export pro-
duction and improve the efficiency of the sector. The
program includes reforms in the areas of trade liberal-
ization, tariffs, price controls, export promotion,
corporate  taxation,  financial   sector  policies  and
industrial public enterprises. The key elements of the
reform program  includes    (i)  rationalization of the
Import licensing system and liberalizing imports of raw
materials, intermediate and capital goods and some
consumer goods; (ii) reduced dispersion in tariff
rates; (iii) decontrolling prices of about 20 products
and streamlining approval procedures for goods remain-
ing under price control; (iv) improved incentives for
export   promotion,   including manufacturing-in-bond,
export finance, and a new import duty compensation
scheme; (v) streamlining of investment procedures; (vi)
improved tax incentives for investment; (vii) the
development of an action program for restructuring the
industrial development finance institutions and their
portfolios; and  (viii)       limited  financial  sector
reforms to activate the capital and money markets. The
proceeds of the Credits would finance general imports
based on a negative list.
Benefits and Risks:    The Credits will  support  the  Government's efforts to
make the industrial sector more outward-oriented and
competitive.    Because  Kenya's  industrial  sector is
already relatively efficient, the primary benefits will



. v -
come from increased investment and a greater export
orientation,  rather  than   from   a  reallocation  of
resources.    The  Credits  will  also  help strengthen
several institutions supporting the industrial sector
(the development finance institutions, capital markets)
and provide the foundation for more flexible management
of the money supply in the wake of Kenya's periodic
"boom and bust" cycles.   The main risks to the Credits
are possible internal resistance to the policy reforms
and the Government's institutional capability to imple-
ment and monitor the reform program. These risks are
mitigated by the Government's  strong commitment to the
program, the choice of the Ministry of Finance as the
primary implementing agency and close supervision of
the Credit by IDA staff.
Estimated   The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be  disbursed  in
Disbursements:   two  tranchess  SDR 37.5 million (US$52 million equiv-
equivalent), including US$1 million equivalent for
technical assistance, after effectiveness; and SDR 36.1
million  (US$50  million)   after   implementation  of
specific reforms as described in the Government's
Letter of Industrial Policy and an overall review of
the implementation of the macroeconomic and sectoral
reform programs. The African Facility Credit will be
disbursed with the first tranche. Disbursements of the
two zredits are expected to be completed in about 18
months, with second tranche release anticipated about
12 months after effec iveness.
Appraital
Report:   N/A
MM:   IBRD-12438R2



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED IDA AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDITS
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.01     I submit  the  following  report  and  recommendation for propoped
credits to the Republic of Kenya to help finance an Industrial Sector
Adjustment Program:   a  development  credit  for  SDR 73.6 million (US$102
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years and a
African Facility Credit for SDR 7.2 million (US$10 million equivalent) on
standard terms.
1.02     An economic report  entitled  "Kenya:  Policies  and Prospects for
Restoring Sustained Growth of Per Capita Incowes was distributed t) the
Executive Directors on March 24, 1986.'   In addition, an industrial sector
report *Kenyas    Industrial  Sector  Policies  for  Investment  and Export
Growth' was distributed in June 1987.2      Part I of this report presents a
summary of Kenya's economic situation.   Part II discusses the Bank Group's
strategy  and  operations  in  Kenya.    Part  III  describes  the proposed
industrial sector adjustment program while Part lV provides details on the
proposed credits. Basic economic data and selected social indicators are
summarized in ANNEXES I throuah VI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Basic Structural Characteristics
1.03     In 1986 Kenya had a per  capita  income of US$300, which places it
towards the upper end of the range of low-income countries. Social
indicators are better than for most African  countries in the same income
category.  However, Kenya's rapidly growing population (about 4 percent per
annum) has  constrained  growth  in per  capita  incomes,  and intensified
pressure on all sectors of the economy to provide more employment
opportunities.   Consequently,  in  its  1986  Set ional  Paper  No. 1, the
Government singled out the acceleration  of  economic growth, a task mainly
for the private sector, as its priority for the period 1985-2000.
1.04     Agriculture is the leading productive  sector of the economy, gen-
erating 26 percent of GDP and employing about 80 percent of the labor
force. Only 18 percent of the land area receives enough rainfall to be
considered as having at least medium potential for cultivation and the
density of population on this land is two-and-a-half times greater than the
Sub-Saharan average.  The sector  is well-diversified due to variations in         X
climate.   It  produces  coffee,  tea  and  horticultural  crops for export
1/ Report No. 6021-KE.
21 Report No. 6711-KE.



(accounting for over half of merchandise exports) and maize, pulses, sugar
and livestock products for the domestic market. Under normal conditions
Kenya is  largely  self-sufficient  in  food.    Increases  in agricultural
production in the medium term will depend on improved yields an land
already under cultivation.
1.05     Xenya's manufacturing sector accounts for  about 11 percent of GDP
and 7 percent of employment. It is among the largest industrial sectors in
Sub-Saharan Africa with 560 medium- and large-scale, 720 small-scale and
1,600 microenterprises. It has been the fastest growing sector of the
economy and has played an important role in Kenya's development since
Independence. Ownership of industry is a blend of public, foreign private
and  domestic  private  investors.    While  the  sector  is  substantially
efficient and is functioning at a high level of capacity utilization, its
growth has slowed in recent years.   Inveetment has fallen and manufactured
exports, which account for 8 percent of output and 15 percent of
merchandise exports,  have  been  declining.    Future  performance of this
sector depends on reviving investment, especially for export markets.
Finally, the service sector accounts for about 45 percent of GDP and
includes tourism, the largest single foreign exchange earner for Kenya in
recent years.
Past Performance
1.06     Kenya's economic performance  since  Independence falls into three
distinct periods: a decade of rapid growth (1963-73) fualed by favorable
weather, rising agricultural incomes and the establishment of industries
for import substitution and the East African Community; a period of
decelerating growth (1974-79) punctuated by the two oil crises and the
coffee boom; and finally, a period (1980-1983) of macroeconomic imbalance
and stabilization, followed by renewed growth in 1986. Nonetheless, the
Kenyan economy remains vulnerable to shifts in the external terms of trade,
especially prices for coffee and tea exports and petroleum imports.
1.07     During the first decade after Independence, GDP grew rapidly at an
annual average rate of 6.6 percent in real terms and the average rate of
inflation was kept below 4 percent.   Agriculture and manufacturing grew at
impressive rates, 4.7 percent and 11 percent respectively, in real terms.
The agricultural sector was stimulated by the conversion of land use to
small holder cultivation, the adoption of high-yield maize varieties and
the introduction  of  high-value  production  activities.   Simultaneously,
rising agricultural incomes and the consequent expansion in domestic demand
induced growth in the  manufacturing  sector.    It also benefitted from an
import substitution policy, based on tariffs and quantitative restrictions,
liberal foreign investment policy, active Government participation in manu-
facturing ventures and continued access to East African Community markets.
1.08     Following the first  oil  crisis,  economic  gr   h decelerated to
about 4.8 percent per arium  during  1973-80, resulting|in little growth in
per capita incomes, while inflation rose  to an average of about 14 percent
per annLum.  This slowdown in growth arose because of (i) a deterioration in
the terms of trade; (ii) poor weather conditions; and (iii) emerging
structural  problems  in  the  agricultural  and  industrial  sectors.   In
agriculture, inappropriate pricing policies and inefficient marketing



- 3 -
arrangements began to take their toll and land yields stagnated. In
industry, the incentives  favored  the  domestic  market more than exports,
resulting  in  an   increasingly   inward-looking   sector with  declining
opportunities for efficient import substitution, while the collapse of the
East African Community exacerbated the decline in exports. Taken together,
these developments resulted in an economy-wide decline in the efficiency of
investment as measured by the incremental capital-output ratio, which
deteriorated by more than S0 percent between the early 19708 and the early
1980s.
1.09     In  the  early  1980s,  severe  internal  and  external imbalances
developed and stabilization became  necessary.   The budget deficit reached
9.5 percent of GDP in FY81, the external current account deficlt amounted
to 12.5 percent of GDP in 1980 and inflation peaked at about 20 percent in
1981. These imbalances arose because of (i) erosion in fiscal discipline;
(ii) failure to sterilize the increase in the money supply, creating a
liquidity overhang for several years; and (iII) a sharper than expected
deterioration in the terms of crade after the 1979 oil crisis. 'In res-
ponse, Government tightened fiscal policy, devalued the real effective
exchange rate, allowed interest rates to become positive in real terms and
real wages to fall and temporarily intensified import restrictions in 1982.
Consequently, by FY84, the budget deficit was brought down to 2.9 percent
of GDP, the current account deficit to 2 percent of GDP and inflation to 11
percent. GDP growth decelerated further to 2.4 percent p.a. during the
stabilization period.   At  the  same  time,  the  Covernment also began to
implement structural reforms. In agriculture, selected key producer prices
were increased and extension services  improved.   In industry, the Govern-
ment eliminated import bans and no-objection certificates as instruments of
protection and implemented a clear system of classifying imports for licen-
sing purposes. Finally, the Government gradually increased the number of
items and value of imports that came under the least restrictive import
schedule and reduced and rationalized tariff rates in three budgets.
1.10     In 1986 Kenya's external  terms  of  trade  improved by 13 percent
because of higher  coffee  and  lower  oil  prices.    The external current
account deficit was reduced to 1 percent of GDP and the overall balance of
payments recorded a surplus. Real GDP growth was 6.5 percent, the highest
rate in many years, but other macroeconomic indicators showed mixed
results. While the exchange rate was prudently devalued by 4 percent in
real terms during the year and inflation kept at a low 4.3 percent, the
money supply and domestic credit grew rapidly. By FY87, the budget deficit
had increased to 8 percent of GDP, because of a sharp increase in expendit-
ures. The 1986 coffee boom was short lived and Kenya's external terms of
trade deteriorated by about 19 percent in 1987. The liquidity overhang
from 1986, however, buoyed demand for imports, leading the Government to
intensify import restrictions in 1987 despite a gradual and continuing
depreciation of the exchange rate.
1.11     In  sum,  Kenya's  macroeconomic  management  has  generally  been
prudent. It has not experienced any prolonged periods of external or
internal imbalance, although performance has sometimes deteriorated in the
wake of sharp fluctuations in the terms of trade. In the past decade the
short episodes of instability have followed good export years besause of
fiscal laxity and the adoption of trade liberalization measures without



-4-
adequate financial policy instruments. Kenya's economic growth performance
compares favorably with most countries- and is much better than most Sub-
Saharan African countries. Its growth rate has declined in recent years,
however, because of external circumstances and the increasing structural
difficulties in its productive sectors.    Given its high population growth
rate, Kenya can no longer accept the status quo. In light of the recent
deterioration in fiscal discipline and external balance, the Government
must  now  restore   macroeconomic   stability while  pursuing  structural
adjustment with greater vigor to restore rapid and consistent economic
growth.
External Debt
1.12     Kenya remains high on the priority list  of many donors.   Most of
Kenya's debt is from official sources, although in recent years the
Government has expanded its commercial borrowings. Total external public
debt amounted to US$3,438 millton at the end of 1986, equivalent to 50
percent of GDP; multilateral and donor Government sources accounted for 42
and 39 percent, respectively, of total external public debt. Kenya's debt-
service ratio increased to 39 percent in 1987, largely because of the
decline in coffee export receipts.
Development Strategy: The Sessional PaRer
1.13     The Sessional Paper provides policy guidelines for Kenymn develop-
ment for the remainder of this century and formed the basis for the Govern-
ment's Policy Framework Paper for the period 1988-90. The Sessional Paper
emphasizes the need to accelerate output growth in order to provide produc-
tive employment for a labor force which is expected to increase by 86 per-
cent between 1985 and 2000, and targets a GDP growth of 5.6 percent annual-
ly. The Paper assigns the private sector the dominant role in revitalizing
Kenya's economy, and asserts that the Government will establish market-
based incentives for private sector investment, while relying less on ins-
truments of direct control. The strategy highlights increased productivity
in agriculture and in rural non-farm activity, a dynamic informal sector,
and the restructuring of industry to improve its export competitivenets.
In trade policy, more uniform import tariffs and more liberal import licen-
sing are expected to promote greater efficiency in the manufacturing sector
and to encourage exports.    The  paper  also  indicates that exchange rate
management will maintain Kenya's competitiveness in world markets while
taking %to account the process of import liberalization.
Stabilization
1.14     As a result of the significant swings in the terms of trade during
1986 and 1987, and laxity in the management of fiscal and financial sector
policies (para. 1.09), Kenya has recognized the need to implement a
stabilization program. In FY87, Government expenditure rose to 33 percent
of GDP (from 30.6 percent in FY86) and the budget deficit increased to 8
percent of GDP, up from 5.6 percent the previous year. This increase in
expenditure arose because of transfers to the National Cereals and Produce
Board  to  purchase  and   store   the   bumper  grain  harvest;  increased
expenditures on education; preparation for the Pan African games; and wage



- 5 -
increases for Government employees.   Domestic  credit and broad money also
e.xpanded rapidly, creating a liquidity overhang. Furthermore, the external
current account deficit widened to about 5 percent of GDP.
1.15     The Government has  agreed  with  the  IMP,  in  the  context of a
standby arrangement and Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF), on steps to
stabilize the economy. The Government intends to reduce the budget deficit
to 4.2 percent of GDP during FY88 and 3.8 percent in FY89. In addition,
the Government will slow the growth of domestic credit and money, causing
the rate of growth of money and quasi-money to decline from 21 percent in
1987 to 7 percent in 1988.   Inflation  would  be held to 7 percent in 1988
and 5 percent in 1989.   The  accompanying planned depreciation of the real
exchange rate, together with a limit on borrowing from non-concessional
sources, will curb import demand and ease pressures on the balance of
payments. Consequently, the current account deficit, including grants,
would be reduced to 3.5 percent of GDP in 1988 and 2.4 percent in 1989 and
the external debt-service ratio for publicly guaranteed debt is expected to
decline from 39 percent in 1987 to 33 percent in 1989.
Medium-tem Macroeconomic Framework. 1988-90
1.16     Over the period 1988-90, the Government intends to maintain macro-
economic stability and sustain the recent improvement in the economy's
growth performance. It aims at a GDP growth of at least 5 percent per
annum while maintaining a low inflation rate by cutting the budget deficit
to 3.4 percent of GDP by FY90 and reducing the external current account
deficit to 1.4 percent of GDP by 1990 (3.9 percent excluding grants). To
achieve these objectives, the Government will (i) further improve farmer
incentives,   agricultural   input   supply   and   agricultural  services,
particularly for smallholders; (ii) re-orient trade and other industrial
incentives to boost efficiency, promote the growth of manufactured exports
and revive industrial investment; (iii) activate the use of monetary policy
instruments to place greater reliance on market forces in allocating
financial resources and to achieve external balance; (iv) maintain a
Clexible and realistic exchange rate policy in tandem with changes in the
trade regime, in order to encourage exports and discourage imports without
the inefficiencies arising from administrative import allocation; and (v)
reduce the budget deficit to correspond with available concessional foreign
financing and ensure that domestic financing of the deficit will neither be
inflationary nor crowd out the private sector. While the reduction in the
budget  deficit  would   be   accomplished  primarily  through  expenditure
restraint, the Government will also (i) implement budget rationalization to
maintain, and in some cases, expand delivery of essential Government
services; (ii) limit the use of nonconcessional sources of external
finance; and (iii) increase mobilization of concessional finance from
official sources.
1.17     Because past policies have been  more favorable to economic growth
in Kenya than in most low-income African countries, the planned measures
will have a gradual rather than dramatic impact on economic structure and
performance during the period  1988-90.    Nonetheless, these measures will
lay the foundation for more  rapid  growth during the 1990s.  Manufacturing
output, which increased by 4.5 percent during 1985 and then 5.9 percent in
1986, is expected to increase by 5.0 percent per annum over 1987-90,



- 6 -
reflecting the gradual recovery in manufactured exports and a revival of
manufacturing investment.   Overall,  GDP  is  expected  to increase by 4.8
percent in 1988 and  5.1  percent  in  1989.    The gradual acceleration of
growth is expected to come primarily from improved efficiency of invest-
ment. Coffee exports, which are expected to be subject to quotas once
again, will strongly influence export performance. Total export volume is
expected to increase by about 4 percent annually, with manufactured exports
increasing by 5 percenM annually  in  real  terms.   If this improvement in
policies does not take'place, GDP growth in the long term would be about 3
percent per annum compared to the rate of growth of population at 3.8
percent per annum. This implies an extended period of sustained decline in
per capita incomes without the program, with inevitable consequences for
social and political stability.
1.18     Kenya will need to limit  new  external debt during the next three
years because of the slow increases expected in export earnings. Although
most of its debt is in the form of bilateral and multilateral loans on
highly concessional terms, the Government has increasingly resorted to
commercial borrowings during the last three years. Consequently, debt-
service payments have risen, with the debt-service ratio increasing from 29
percent in 1982 to 39 percent in 1987. By limiting new borrowings mainly
to official and concessional sources (under the IMF program the Government
has established an annual ceiling of US$75 million on commercial borrowing
during  1988-90)   and   gradually   increasing   exports,  the  Government
anticipates that Kenya's debt-service ratio will decline to 30 percent by
1990 and 21 percent by 1995.
PART II - BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN KENYA
Bank Stratety
2.01     Since the early 19809, the  Bank's assistance strategy has focused
on three main  objectives:    (i)  encouraging  the Government to implement
structural changes to facilitate more sfficient resource use in the private
and public sectors;   (ii)  supporting    investments that directly enhance
growth as well as  emple nent;  and  (iii)  reducing the rate of population
growth and expanding the country's institutional capacity. In the short-
term, IDA intends to work closely with Government and the INF to ensure the
effective implementation and maintenance of the macroeconomic stabilization
measures described above (paras. 1.14 and  1.15).   In the medium term, IDA
will continue to support structural adjustment and policy reform in a
number of key sectors, including agriculture, industry, finance, education
and health. Increased attention will be given to the private sector in
industry, finance and other services and to smallholder producers in
agriculture. In addition, medium-term efforts will focus on more efficient
resource utilization, both in the productive sectors as well as in selected
social sectors.   Finally,  in  the  longer  term,  IDA will contribute to
maintaining and enhancing the human and physical inputs available for
growth and development. These efforts, largely through discrete projects,
will focus on improving infrastructure, providing better health services,
education and training as well as helping Kenya contain its rapid
population growth  rate.    In  addition,  IDA  intends  to give increasing
attention to preserving Kenya's physical environment, including wildlife
conservation.



.1 -
2.02     The Bank group has at present eight loans and 17 IDA credits under
implementation in Kenya, totalling US$305.8 million and US$348 million
tespectivel?. Seventy-three loans and credits have been fully disbursed.
ANNEX VII contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments in Kenya as of March 31, 1988.
2.03     The Bank's previous industrial operations in Kenya have been limi-
ted to lines of credit to two Govesgent-owned development finance institu-
tionst the Industrial Development Bank (IDB), which has received four
lines of credit totalling US$65 million, and Kenya Industrial Estates
(KIE), which has received two lines of credit amounting to US$16 million
equivalent. These lines of credit have supported the creation and expan-
sion of medium- and large-scale industrial enterprises in the case of IDB
and small-scale industries in the case of KIE. Implementation under these
operations has been mixed, although the second credit to KIE (FY87) encom-
passed significant reforms of its lending policies and procedures as well
as a financial restructuring.   Lending decisions in both institutions have
been subject at times to  extraneous  considerations, leading to an erosion
of the quality of  their  portfolios.    In addition, IDB's performance has
deteriorated because (i) IDB faces increased competition from other banks
and near-bank financial institutions (NBFA) in its traditional markets;
(ii) many of IDB's clients are illiquid or insolvent, in part because of
the  impact  of  exchange   rate  devaluations  on  their  foreign-exchange
denominated loans from IDB; and (iii) IDB is unable to generate local
sources of funding, largely as a result of its -own poor financial
condition. IDB is one of the institutions to be restructured under the
proposed Credits (para. 3.23).
2.04     Prior to 1980, the  Bank's  operations in Kenya consisted strictly
of individual project loans and crodlts.    In 1980, however, the Bank made
the first of two Structural Adjustmast Loans (SALs) to Kenya (the second
was made in 1982). A Project Completion Report (1984) and a Project
Performance Audit Report (1985) reviewed the implementation of the two
SALs, which were complex multisectoral operations covering policy reforms
ralated to agriculture, industry, trade and Government expenditures.
Experience with the  SALs was  disappointing.    In retrospect, inadequate
attention was given to developing a broad consensus within the Government
in determining the parameters and details of policy actions. Instead, the
dialogue was primarily confined to a narrow group of officials (largely in
the Ministry  of  Finance).    Other ministries,  with  responsibility for
implementing the program, often were not committed to or did not fully
understand the program.  The Goverva~St also did not have the institutional
capability to implement  such  a  complex  operation.   Other factors which
contributed to the disappointing performance under the SAL8 includeds (i)
external shocks that made it difficult to sustain the pace of reform,
especially in the wake of a stabilization program (1982-83) and drought
(1984); and (ii) the Government did not consult sufficiently with the
private sector on the proposed reforms.
2.05     Because of the difficulties  experienced with  the SALs, the Bank
has decided to disaggregate future structural adjustment lending into a
series of sector operations based on solid economic work and project prepa-
ration. While such operations include many of the basic reform measures
identified in the SALs, they are more sharply focussed on key sectoral
issues, making it easier to achiwev intra-governmental coordination and



- 8 -
commitment. This approach requires detailed and intensive preparation and
*front-loading' of implementation. Recent experience with the Agricultural
Sector operation, the first of these sector adjustment credits, indicates
that this approach is enjoying  some  success.   The ISAC program, based on
detailed sector work, was prepared over a six-month period with a Govern-
ment  committee,  including  representatives   from  all  the  implementing
ministries and other agencies, and regular consultations with the private
sector. In addition, Government's Policy Framework Paper (PPP), agreed
with the IMF and the Bank, provides the overall macroeconomic framework and
a mechanism  for  ensuring   consistency  between  the  individual  sector
adjustment programs and the macro reforms envisaged under the structural
adjustment program.
2.06     The implementation  of  project  investments  also  faced problems
associated with  the  country's   limited  administrative  and  absorptive
capacity. In the past few years, the Bank has rationalized and scaled back
a number of investment projects to conform better to Government's needs and
capabilities. Recent country implementation review, have focussed on this
issue, with greater emphasis given to better doior coordination, more
effective use of technical assistance and using pil.; projects for design-
ing investment projects.
2.07     These implementation problems of the SALs and projects contributed
to a drop in net resource transfers from the Bank and IDA to Kenya in the
1980s. Net disbursements declined from US$125 million in 1982 to a nega-
tive US$36 million in 1986 and then rose to a positive US$12 million in
FY87.   This  downward  trend  is  also  partially  due  to rising interest
payments on IBRD loans, many of which have been fully disbursed. At the
end of 1986, IBRD and IDA respectively held 21 percent and 13 percent of
Kenya's stock of long-term public and publicly-guaranteed external debt
outstanding and disbursed. IBRD's share in public debt-service payments is
expected to range betwean 25 and 29 percent between 1988 and 1991. Because
of the relatively high IBRD exposure and Kenya's already high debt-service
ratio (para. 1.12), Bank Group lending to Kenya in the next few years is
expected to be entirely IDA.
IFC Operations
2.08     IFC has made investments in  15 enterprises in Kenya, spanning the
industrial, financial and tourism  sectors.    Total net commitments (after
cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales) amounted to US$84
million as of March 31, 1988, of which US$5 million represented equity
investments, and the remaining US$79 million loans. In industry, IFC has
been active in the pulp and paper, textiles, tanning and agroprocessing
sectors. Pulp and paper projects represent 56 percent of total gross
commitments. Although generally IFC's investments have performed well,
several projects encountered difficulties during implementation. IFC has
also been quite active in investments in capital market and financial
institutions.
Coordination with the IMF
2.09     The proposed Credits are a critical element not only in Government
and IDA's strategy for Kenya, but in the overall program of structural
change supported by the IMF.    Success  of  the program described below is
contingent on appropriate exchange rate and monetary policies. The IMF



- 9 -
Board approved in February, 1988 a standby arrangement for SDR 85 million,
and a Structural Adjustment Facility (SAP) for SDR 90 million. IDA staff
have discussed the proposed industrial sector adj..Astment program in detail
with IMF staff and these reforms constitute a major component of the PFP
underpinning the SAP.   Bank  staff  intend  to continue close coordination
with the IMF  to  ensure  consistency  between different policy instruments
during the implementation of the  program.    The funds made available from
IDA, the IMF and related cofinancing should go a long way in filling
Kenya's financing gap over the next two years (see para. 4.05).
Coordination with other Donors
2.10     The  ISAC  represents   an   important   focal   point  for  donor
coordination and cofinancing for Kenya at a time when the country is
experiencing serious balance of payments constraints coupled with a
relatively high debt-service burden.    Subject  to  final decisions by the
individual donors, cofinancing for the ISAC is likely to total about US$90
million from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan), African
Development Bank, European Investment Bank and others.
PART III - SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Sector Background
3.01     Manufacturing. Kenya's  manufacturing  sector is well diversified
and among the largest in Sub-Saharan Africa, contributing about 11 percent
to GDP. It has grown continuously since Independence, at a rate exceeding
10 percent p.a. from the mid-1960s to the mid-1970s, and at a lower but
still impressive rate, averaging 6 percent per annum during the second
decade after Independence.   During  the  last six years, industrial growth
has occurred concurrent with a macroeconomic adjustment process (discussed
in para. 1.09), including large reductions in the fiscal and current
account deficits, a considerable devaluation of the Kenya Shilling in real
terms, a slow-down in inflation to less than 5 percent in 1986, the emer-
gence of positive interest rates, some import liberalization and a lowering
of tariffs. In the Bank's Industrial Sector Report (1987) (para. 1.02), a
survey of 45 industrial enterprises, representing about 40 percent of the
sector's value  added,    showed  that  although  effective  protection was
relatively high, averaging 90 percent, about 78 percent of the sector was
efficient  for   import-substitution   activities   and   average  capacity
utilization approached 80 percent.    The efficient subsectors included the
traditional consumer goods industries (food processing, beverages, tobacco,
textiles, leather and wood products), with strong domestic resource links,
simpler  technology  and  long  production  experience.    These  efficient
activities were considerably less protected (average effective protection
rate (EPR), 43 percent) than inefficient activities (average EPR, 255
percent) such as metal and steel industries and automobile assembly.
3.02     Despite relatively  high  average  levels  of efficiency, industry
faces several problems. In particular, export performance has been poor,
net investment appears to have been negative for several years and the
sector is creating a meager 3,000 to 5,000 jobs a year, against 150,000 new



- 10 -
entrants into the labor force annuallI. The strategy of industrialization
through protected import substitution has created a strong anti-export bias
and led to an increasingly inward-looking sector. Imports as a percentage
of the domestic supply of manufactured goods decreased from 36 percent in
1980 to 19 percent in 1985, and exports as a percentage of gross output
declined from 19 percent to 8 percent in the same period. By 1983, th
ratio of imports in domestic supply was less than 20 percent in 13
subsectors (out of 19) which accounted for most of manufacturing value
added. Annual gross investment in industry has been falling since 1978--in
1985 it was 41 percent of the 1978 level In real terms--and it is estimated
that the capital stock in 1985 may ,.,    oeclined to 85 percent of its peak
value in 1979.  Thus,  the    relAtiF=4X  high growth rate of manufacturing
output has come largely through increased capacity utilization. The low
level of new investment has occurred because Kenya's industrial sector is
running  out  of  steam.    Following  the  collapse  of  the  East African
Community, exports have declined as a proportion of output and the
prospects for efficient import substitution are nearly exhausted at
present. In the absence of a substantial increase in exports, the main
sources of demand growth are reasonable agricultural growth (4.5 percent in
1986) and high  population  growth.    These  two  alone, however, will not
generate the per capita income growth and employment targeted in the
Sessional Paper. On the supply side, an aging capital stock with high
capacity utilization and investors with little interest in new projects or
expansion are constraining increases In sectoral output.
3.03     Financial  Sector.    Kenya's  well  diversified  financial sector
includes  nearly  25  commercial   banks,   more  than  50  NBFIs,  several
specialized development finance institutions (DFIs), a Post Office Savings
Bank, as well as an array of insurance companies, building societies,
cooperatives and other  financial  institutions.    Although  the number of
institutions has increased rapidly in recent years, particularly amongst
the NBFIs and indigenous Kenyan banks, the banking sector remains dominated
by the three major commercial banks and their affiliated companies.
3.04     Historically, Kenya has  Oftw taC&lly  experienced rapid surges in
the money supply, especially in coffee boom years. Without open market
operations, the Government has had few options for reducing excess liqui-
dity, and has often tapped these surplus funds for its own expenditures.
The high liquidity also leads to increased private sector demand for
imports, even when foreign exchange reserves decline, as they did in 1987.
In order to attain its macroeconomic objectives, particularly for exchange
rate management and inflation, the Government needs to develop additional
instruments for managing credit and the money supply. Until now, it has
relied on administered interest rates, liquidity ratios, credit ceilings
and limited sectoral credit guidelines, Kenya's capital markets at present
are also generally inactive.  Only tV6 MitLtations have made public offer-
ings since 1980. Trading is sporadie, with a far larger number of prospec-
tive purchasers than sellers.   The  large oversubscription of the two most
recent public offerings indicates that sufficient demand exists to support
a more dynamic capital market.
Government Program and IDA Strateay for the Industrial Sector
3.05     Kenya's industrial sector faces an uncertain future.  While it has
enjoyed good past performance and is currently largely efficient, it
urgently needs to search for new markets, sodernize and expand existing



- 11 -
firms as well as create new enterprises. Reforming Kenya's trade regime-
-liberalizing imports and reducing and evening out the levels of industrial
protection--is important for changing the balance of incentives towards
exports and away from the domestic market in the medium term. In this way,
Kenya is different from other countries vhich need to modify, in the very
short run, the allocation of recurrent resources among existing enter-
prises.    Moreover,  the  policy  package  will  need  to  offer potential
investors net positive financial (not only economic) gains to revitalize
investment. Thus, a careful balancing of *carrot and stick' is required,
with the main "carrot' for industrialists comprising price decontrol,
investment and export incentives, to compensate for the "stick' of trade
reform. Once again, Kenya differs from many other countries in the region
where large amounts of unutilized capacity allow major gains in the short
term from a reallocation of recurrent resources. Since average capacity
utilization is fairly high in Kenya, the balancing and sequencing of policy
reforms should be structured to generate an early and strong supply
response from new investment, prior to measures which vill result in the
closure of inefficient firms, and thus not curtail overall growth of the
sector.
Policy Reforms
3.06     As  indicated  in  para.  1.16,  the  proposed  industrial  sector
adjustment program is set in the context of Kenya's structural adjustment
and stabilization program. this has been spelt out in the Policy Framework
Paper of January 7, 1988 (SecM88-27), covering a three-year period ending
June 1990, which was considered by the Executive Directors meeting as a
Committee of the Whole on January 26, 1988 and later approved by the IMF's
Executive Board.    Under  the  Fund's  SAF  and  the  accompanying standby
arrangement, the agreed fiscal, monetary and external reserve targets for
1987188 would represent a substantial adjustment effort. Bank staff have
participated in the discussions with the Government of Kenya on the Policy
Framework Paper and will participate in the development of the second one-
year action program. Fund staff reviews of the program are to be completed
by June 30, 1988  and  December  31,  1988.    They will assess balance of
payments financing, exchange rate, Import liberalization and fiscal and
monetary policies (including interest rates), and evaluate progress under
the agreed benchmarks.    The  June  review will  also set the performance
criteria for the remaining two years of the SAF.
3.07     The proposed Credit is  the  first  in  a series of industrial and
financial sector operations, and will provide the foundation for Kenya's
medium-term adjustment program outlined in the Government's Letter of
Industrial Policy (ANNEX IX) and summarized in its Reform Program policy
matrix (ANNEX X).    The  program  directly  addresses the most troublesome
issues facing Kenya's industrial sector--stagnant investment and exports.
Their revival is essential to revitalizing the sector and enabling it to
fulfill its otherwise high potential.    The  reform package has two partss
the first, which includes trade liberalization and tariff reform, is
intended to improve the efficiency of the sector and reduce its anti-export
bias. Imported inputs for production will be more freely available and
greater  competition  encouraged.      The   second,  which  includes  price
decontrol, tax reform, divestiture of industrial public enterprises,
capital and financial market reforms, and easier access to duty free inputs



- 12 -
and manufacturing-in-bond (MIB) facilities for exporters, would improve the
incentives and environment for investment and exports. The reforms related
to investment and export promotion are expected to boost new investment
while trade reform will be slower, but surefooted and meaningful. Taker.
together, they represent a substantial move towards structural adjustment.
Trade Retime
3.08     Import Licensing.   The  present  system  of  import licensing was
developed during the SALs. The Government uses the import licensing system
to close the gap between the demand for imports and availability of foreign
exchange and to protect domestic  production.   Imports are currently cate-
gorized into four schedules (Table 1).   Schedules IA and IB contain mainly
raw materials, intermediate capital and non-competing final goods, with
Schedule IA imports intended to be without restrictions and Schedule I8
licenses issued on an individual  item  basis.   Schedule IIA includes bulk
imports such as grains, fertilizer, petroleum and other items that require
ministerial approval by law for  importation.   Schedule IIB contains items
that  compete  with  domestic  goods,   luxury  goods  and  other  products
controlled for  health  or  safety  reasons.    This  schedule  is the most
restricted, with licenses issued on an item-by-item basis.
Table 1: PRESENT IMPORT SCHEDULES
FY84                                 FY87
Items         Imports           Items            Imports
Schedule   No.     Z    KSh Bil.   Z          No.       S      KSh Bil.   2
IA        803    29.5    5.9      30.8        1121    40.6    15.3      51.0
IB        961    35.3    3.2      17.0         667    24.2      3.3     11.0
IIA        92     3.4    8.7      45.7         109      3.9     9.3     31.0
_IB       864    31.8    1.2       6.5         863    31.3      2.1      7.0
Totals   2720   100.0   19.0    100.0         2760   100.0    30.0    100.0
3.09     Under SAL II, the Government  agreed  to a four-year plan for pro-
gressively shifting items to the unrestricted list; however, the Govern-
ment's policy letter noted that the actual pace of implementation would
depend on the availability of foreign exchange. Indeed, the import libera-
lization timetable was disrupted by inadequate availability of foreign
exchange in 1982183, following which the Government re-restricted some
items that had been  liberalized.    The  Government then agreed on revised
import management arrangements (but not including a medium-term timetable)
with the Bank and Fund. Progress was renewed in June 1985, when about 320
items were shifted to Schedule IA, making the system slightly more liberal
than that prevailing immediately prior to the SAL It program. In 1986, the
Government did not make any further shifts, but instead administered
Schedule IB in  a  liberal  manner.    In  1987,  foreign exchange reserves
dwindled but excess liquidity kept the demand for imports high. Since the
Government neither moved more aggressively on the exchange rate, nor used
monetary policies to absorb liquidity and curb the demand for imports, it



- 13 -
resorted to restricting imports of items on Schedules IA and IB. This
back-tracking on import liberalization also created uncertainty in the
business community because of delays and rejections in obtaining licenses
that were readily available before. Applicants then began to submit multi-
ple licenses to increase the probability of success.
3.10     The Government decided recently  to rationalize the current import
licensing schedules to avoid similar problems in the future (Table 2).
Schedule I will consist solely of raw materials, intermediates and capital
goods similar to the present Schedule IA; Schedule II will be similar to
the current Schedule ZIA, consisting of bulk import items requiring
ministerial approval; and Schedule III will have all the remaining items.
Schedule III  will  be  subdivided  into  3  categeries:    IIIA, with high
priority items insufficiently available in the domestic market; IIIB, with
items competing with domestic production that have lower tariff protection
than category IIIC; and IIIC, containing other competitive goods, luxury
goods and items restricted for reasons of public health and safety. The
reorganized schedules are intended to keep Schedules I and II inviolate and
thus reduce uncertainty in  the  business  community.   The Government will
issue licenses for items in Schedules I, II and category A of Schedule III
expeditiously and without  restriction  from  June  1988.   A comparison of
Tables 1 and 2 shows that the rationalization will result in a slightly
larger percentage of items and imports licensed without restrictionss the
percentage of items will rise from 45 to 60 percent and the value of
imports will increase from 82 to 88 percent.
Table 2: PROPOSED IMPORT SCHEDULES la
Items          ImRorts                       Tariffs
Schedule     No.       X     KSh Bil.      Z        Unweighted       Weighted
I            901    32.6       11.7     43.2           26.9            25.9
1I           199      7.2       9.8     36.2           14.9            13.9
IIIA         548    19.9        2.3       8.6          37.2            33.8
IIIB         462    16.7        1.9       7.1          45.1            40.5
IIIC         651    23.6        1.3       4.9          59.5            47.8
Total       2761   100.0       27.0    100.0           38.8            24.3
a/  Import data used are for FY87.    1987  data  for Tables 1 and 2 differ
because of unclassified items.
3.11     In  the  current   macroeconomic   situation,  the  Goverment  is
concerned about moving too far and too  fast on liberalization.   Under the
SAP it has agreed to a significant devaluation of the real exchange rate,
decreasing the budget deficit by about half in one year and limiting
monetary growth. Nonetheless, there may be continued excess demand for
imports that could endanger its prudent management of external reserves and
debt.    However,   the   Government   is   committed   to  achieving  full
liberalization, except for a few items restricted for reasons of security
and health, by June 1991.    Items  in  category  B of Schedule III will be
licensed unrestrictively by June 1989 and those in category C of Schedule



- 14 -
III completely  liberalized  during  the  ISAC  II  period.    In  order to
facilitate this process the Government will undertake a study to (i) design
an implementation program which will provide domestic industry with
equivalent protection by tariffs only; and (ii) draft appropriate anti-
dumping legislation. The second phase of the study will prepare action
programs for restructuring companies severely affected by liberalization.
It is anticipated that these companies will face import competition during
ISAC II when Schedule IIIC is unrestrictively licensed.
3.12     By June 1989, when the second tranche  of this credit is due to be
released, 76 percent of items and 95 percent of imports (1987) will be
licensed without restriction.   At  that  point  the  import system will be
somewhat more liberal than under SAL II, had that program been completed.
About 26 percent of all items produced in Kenya will be exposed to unres-
tricted import competition although, because of data limitations, it is not
possible to estimate the proportion of domestic value added they consti-
tute. Liberalization of all items in Schedules I and II and categories A
and B of Schedule III by June 1989 will have a significant impact on the
balance of payments and tariff revenue.   It is estimated that imports will
increase by about 3 percent in 1988 (16 percent of the current account
deficit) and about 8 percent in 1989 (68 percent of the current account
deficit). Because of the increase in imports, it is estimated there will
be an increase in tariff revenue during 1988-89.
3.13     Tariffs.  The unweighted  average  tariff  in  Kenya is 39 percent
and the weighted average 24  percent.    These rates are not excessive but,
because of the cascading structure of tariffs and the variability of
tariffs on final goods, the average effective protection was a high 90
percent for the sector in 1985.   Although the range for individual activi-
ties is wide (-167 to 1019 percent), effective protection ranged between 0
and 80 percent for over 60 percent of the value added covered by the Bank's
industrial sector survey. While these high and uneven levels of protection
shield inefficient activities, they also allow efficient activities, which
constitute most of the sector, to be highly profitable at the expense of
the consumer. Thus, the objective of lowering and evening protection is
important not only for improving efficiency, but perhaps more importantly,
for shifting the balance of incentives between production for the domestic
market and exports. The Government is committed to lowering and evening
out effective protection for the sector. In three budgets in the past four
years, it rationalized some tariffs and lowered the average rate by about 8
percent. While lowering protection is the ultimate objective, the major
reforms will be implemented in the second and third phases of the
adjustment  program   (1990-1993)   to   accommodate  lifting  quantitative
restrictions on imports first.   However,  in  the  June 1988 and June 1989
budgets, the Government will (i) further rationalize tariffs such that
similar goods bear similar tariffs; (ii) reduce the number of tariff levels
from 25 to 12, mainly by eliminating tariffs at the high end; and (iii)
review specific duties with a view to converting them into ad valorem
rates.
3.14     ExDorts.  As noted in para. 1.05 above, Kenya's export performance
has been disappointing. The high protection given to industry by tariffs
and quantitative restrictions have made production for the domestic market
more profitable than for exports, while tariffs paid on inputs for export



- 15 -
production make Xenya's exports expensive in world markets. In addition,
the past overvaluation of Kenya's currency further eroded the competitive-
ness of Kenyan  exports.    The  Government  implemented its primary policy
initiative to counterbalance the anti-export bias in 1974 with the passage
of the Export Compensation Act.    The  Export Compensation Scheme (ECS) is
supposed to compensate for duties paid on imported inputs and any unrefun-
ded indirect taxes, but does not counterbalance either domestic protection
or exchange rate overvaluation. The scheme has been in place for over 10
years but its effectiveness has been marred by frequent changes and
administrative delays.   The  current  compensation  rate  is 20 percent of
export value and applies to a list of 600 eligible products. The ECS has
failed  to  encourage  exports.    Indeed,  only  about  40  companies have
regularly taken advantage of it and the lion's share of compensation has
gone to two firms. Thus, a reform of the ECS is necessary to ensure that
exporters have, at minimum, access to duty and tax free inputs. The
Government will announce by June 1989 a simple Import Duty Compensation
Scheme to replace ECS with three rates reflecting duties actually paid and
a wider  coverage.    The  new  scheme  will  be  implemented with improved
admlnistration guaranteeing reimbursement within one month of exporting.
The Government will issue by June 1988, guidelines and procedures for MIB
that assure access to  foreign    exchange within one week of application.
The Government will also undertake a study to review the adequacy of
incentives for  exporters.    Based  on  this  study  and  a  review of the
performance of MIB, additional incentives may be introduced in June 1989.
The Government will also design and start implementing by June 1989 a
comprehensive medium-term export promotion program that includes financing
and  information  support  to   potential   exporters.    Furthermore,  the
Government is committed to establishing an export processing zone (EPZ)
with bilateral assistance. Donor response to the Government's request for
funds has been positive and construction of the EPZ is expected to begin no
later than June 1989.
3.15     Price Controls.  Prices for  a wide range of manufactured products
are controlled under the Price Control Act (1956) and its subsequent
revisions. The Special Order of the Act applies to about 11 individual
consumer items, mainly basic foods and beverages, with the objective of
protecting the purchasing power of low income groups. The General Order was
originally intended to prevent monopolistic exploitation but now applies to
ex-factory prices of 40 manufactured products spread across the sector.
Producers submit cost functions when they begin production of new products,
and can apply for subsequent revisions only for input price changes, not
for improvements in efficiency or changes in the cost structure. In
addition, many firms encounter considerable delays (as much as 10 months)
in securing price revisions, thus wreaking havoc with corporate planning,
profitability, and eventually, investment and employment. In practice the
Government enforces these regulations primarily for large manufacturers.
Price  controls  usually  do   not   benefit  the  consumer;  instead  they
discriminate  in  favor   of   traders   and   against  producers,  thereby
discouraging new investment. The Government is aware of the shortcomings
inherent in its attempts to control prices and has taken important steps in
decontrolling some prices, including some basic consumer items such as
meat. It has also drafted new legislation to monitor monopoly producers
and unfair trade practices in restraint of trade as a means of controlling
market  concentration  rather  than   using   price   controls.    The  new



- 16 -
legislation, however, defines monopoly too broadly and still provides
rather sweeping powers to  the  Price  Controller.    Moreover, many of the
items covered at present under the General Order are included in tbe import
schedules to be  liberalized.    Thus,  under  unrestricted licensing, they
would meet sufficient competition from imported goods to ensure fair
pricing. Many other items also encounter substantial domestic competition
making their price controls redundant.
3.16     The pace of price decontrol  will be enhanced under the industrial
sector program. As a first step, the Government will decontrol 10 products
from the General Price Order by June 1988, and a further 10 by December
1988. Furthermore, the Government proposes to move an amendment to the
Restrictive Trade Practices, Monopolies and Price Control Bill which is now
before Parliament, and will be enacted by December 1988, to (i) redefine
monopoly such that it reflects market power; and (ii) limit the powers of
the Price Controller to only items produced under monopoly conditions or
traded restrictively as defined in  the  Bill.   All controlled items which
will not fall under the new Act will oe gradually decontrolled during the
second  phase  of  the  industrial  adjustment  program  (1990-1991).   The
Government has agreed to process applications for price revisions of items
that  will  continue  to  be   price   controlled,  and  conform  with  the
Determination of Costs Order, within 90 days.
Investment Incentives
3.17     In addition to the dearth  of incentives for manufactured exports,
Kenya offers little in the way of incentives for investment in general.
Significant disincentives to new investment include: (i) administrative
bottlenecks in establishing a business in Kenya; (ii) relatively high
effective rates of corporate taxation; and (iii) certain provisions of the
Foreign Investment Protection Act (FIPA) and other restrictions on the
activities of non-resident companies.
3.18     In the past, the long list of approvals and clearances required to
set up a business in Kenya has deterred many investors. The approval and
renewal of work permits for expatriate staff has been a particularly sensi-
tive  issue.    Long  delays  are  common  and  the  grounds  for rejecting
applications are unclear. The Government will by June 1988 streamline the
approval procedures by (i) issuing investment guidelines that detail all
the policies and procedures affecting investors; (ii) establishing an
interministerial one-stop office in the Investment Promotion Center (IPC),
which  will  be  adequately  staffed   to minimize  delays  in  processing
investment applications; and (iii) issuing guidelines that clarify the
criteria for issuance and renewal of work permits.
3.19     Marginal effective rates of corporate taxation appear to be higher
in Kenya than in several other African and Asian countries. This difference
arises because of higher statutory rates (particularly for non-resident
branch operations), slower depreciation rates, lower initial allowances for
new investment and the double taxation of dividends. In addition, firms
borrowing long term in foreign currency for imported capital goods cannot
deduct exchange losses for tax  purposes.    Recent changes in the tax code
have generally increased  effective  rates  of  corporate    taxation.  The
Government will by June 1988 complete a study of comparative marginal



- 17 -
effective company tax rates and will make appropriate changes to reduce the
rate in Kenya. It will also allow, by the same date, companies to treat
realized exchange losses on foreign currency loans used to purchase fixed
assets as deductible expenses for tax purposes.
3.20     Foreign firms operating in  Kenya face constraints in repatriating
the sales proceeds of their investments and borrowing locally. The present
version of FIPA denominates a company's equity investment in Kenyan
shillings, and reinvested profits or capital gains are not recognized as
part of the equity to be remitted on sale. Moreover, while companies may
remit equity immediately, the capital gains must sit in a blocked account
earning 2-3 percent interest for five years, and then remain subject to
Central Bank approval for transfer out of Kenya. The Government will amend
FIPA by June 1988 to enable investors to remit the foreign exchange equiva-
lent of their investment and to provide commercial returns on funds left in
blocked accounts.
Public EnterDrises
3.21     Kenyan   public   enterprises,    which   include   manufacturing,
agricultural marketing and other public service enterprises, have played a
significant role in the Kenyan economy since Independence, accounting for 8
percent of GDP and 15 percent of 'modern" employment in 1984. In the
industrial sector, where the private sector is the dominant and dynamic
force, the Government has investments in 86 enterprises, either through
direct ownership or indirectly through the development finance institutions
(DFIs). It has majority holdings in 25 of these 86 firms, representing 68
percent of its total investment of KSh 1.4 billion (US$82 million). The
performance of these enterprises has been disappointing because of poor
investment choices, inadequate management and a changing competitive and
economic environment. By 1986, 16 had negative net worth, another 16 had
accumulated net losses, and several others faced an uncertain future.
Several subsectors, such as textiles, fibers and food and beverages show
accumlated losses for the subsector as a whole. Neither the Government
nor the DFIs have the capability or the financial resources to resuscitate
the troubled enterprises. At the same time, the DFIs have been reluctant
to divest their more successful holdings as the dividend stream from these
companies is vital for paying salaries and keeping the failing companies
afloat. As a result, the financial condition of the DFIs is deteriorating
and their competitive position relative to other financial institutions is
declining. Unable to extricate themselves from past investment decisions
and hampered in their ability to attract new investments, the DFIs are
largely stagnant.
3.22     The Government's efforts  to  improve  parastatal performance have
focussed on two areas: in the short run, improving supervision of public
enterprises, and in the longer term, devising a plan for restructuring and
divesting parastatals.  The  first    area  has seen more tangible progress
than the second. In the area of supervision, Government has (i) reduced
direct budgetary transfers to parastatals and established more stringent
budgeting and evaluation procedures; (ii) created the office of the Auditor
General, Corporations, subjecting all parastatals to an annual independent
audit; and (iii) enacted the State Corporations Act, which emphasizes
stricter   supervision   and   greater   accountability   for  parastatals.



- 18 -
Nonetheless, supervision of industrial parastatals remains diffused across
sevezal Ministries and agencies.    In addition, institutional capabilities
are limited (particularly in the Ministry of Industry) and the tenor of the
State Corporations Act could induce less, rather than more autonomy in
decision making, because of its emphasis on ex-ante controls rather than
ex-post performance evaluation.
3.23     In the area of  divestiture,  The  Sessional  Paper  No. 1 of 1986
indicated that Government would retain only those enterprises which offered
administrative, public and social services not provided by the private
sector. By and large, the industrial public enterprises (IPEs) do not fall
into any of these categories.   In  1983, the Government established a Task
Force on Divestiture, which worked for more than two years and produced a
preliminary classification of public enterprises, into those to be retained
and those to be divested, analyses of specific subsectors, and a discussion
of various mechanisms for divestiture.    As in many other countries, Kenya
has moved slowly on divestiture to date, handling enterprises on a case-by-
case basis. Some progress has been made recently, including the sale of a
major food processing firm and the sale of 6 equity holdings by one of the
DFIs. In addition, Government recently announced its intention to sell
shares in the two largest Government-owned commercial banks.
3.24     The IDA Credit will  finance  studies to support the restructuring
of the  DFIs  and  their  portfolios.    The  consultants  will  assist the
Government in redefining the appropriate roles and structures of the DFIs,
and make recommendations for their transformation and for dealing with
their portfolios. The Government has also agreed to make the Task Force
reports available to IDA and the consultants for this exercise. An action
program  for  DFI  restructuring   and  divestiture  of  industrial  public
enterprises will be prepared, agreed, and announced by December 1988. The
Government will agree with IDA and commence implementation of the action
programs before June 1989.   For  enterprises  to be retained in the public
sector, the Government will prepare and implement a monitoring and
supervisory system by December 1988.
Financial Sector
3.25     Kenya's financial system, although well developed for a country of
Kenya's per capita income level, suffers from some inefficiencies, both in
institutional as well as policy aspects. In 1986, two small banks and four
NBFIs suspended operations because of inadequate capital and inappropriate
lending practices. Subsequently, the Government has amended the Banking
Act to strengthen banking supervision and the Central Bank is taking steps
to improve its capabilities in  this  area.   The Government is also moving
towards  greater  reliance  on   market   forces  in  allocating  financial
resources, through tendering of government paper and introducing other
monetary policy instruments.   Restrictions  on interest rates still exist,
however, as do quantitative limits  on  credit.   The Government intends to
allow increased market determination of interest rates and has reduced
controls on lending spreads. The stock market in Kenya remains relatively
inactive, although the success of twc offerings in the last few years
demonstrated that significant demand exists for such securities. Further
development of capital markets is constrained by the controls of the
Capital Tssues Committee (CIC).   The CTC, established in 1971 to regulate,



- 19 -
among other responsibilities, the size, timing and pricing of issues, has
been a major deteirent to firms tapping the equity market. At the same
time, however, no institution exists to act on policies related to the
development and regulation of  capital  markets.   In addition, certain tax
provisions  and  regulations  over   holdings  of  institutional  investors
(particularly insurance companies) and other legislation (disclosure,
restrictive admission to the Stock Exchange, etc.) are disincentives for
using the capital market.
3.26     The Government, as set  out  in  its  Policy Framework Paper, will
take several steps to strengthen its money and capital markets to provide
more flexibility in financial sector policies and support the divestiture
of industrial public enterprises. The Government has begun to issue longer
term Treasury Bonds and improve the system for their auctioning. It will
establish a discount facility at the Central Bank by June 1988 to
facilitate open market operations and the development of a secondary
market. These measures will also introduce greater flexibility in the
interest rate structure. As a first step, the Government will establish a
Capital Markets Development Authority (CMDA) by June 1989 and strip the CIC
of its power over timing and pricing of issues of domestically-owned firms,
with the ultimate objective of moving toward market-determined prices for
all equities.   The  proposed  Financial  Sector  Operation will assist the
Government in carrying this process further.
Conclusions
3.27     The preceding  policy  package,  based  on  thorough  sector work,
covers  many  aspects  of  the  industrial  sector.    It will immediately
establish a much-improved environment for investment and exports to elicit
a quick supply response.    The  program  includes the decontrol of prices,
lower taxation, streamlining procedures and regulations for investment,
divestiture of industrial public enterprises, and easier access to duty
free inputs and manufacturing-in-bond facilities for exporters. At the
same time, the Government will liberalize the trade regime and reform the
tariff structure.    These  policy  changes  constitute  important steps in
improving the sector's efficiency and will also reduce the anti-export bias
of the present incentive structure.   This program will provide the crucial
first steps in this process.   Bank  staff consider the pace to be prudent,
enabling investors to respond to the new incentives and adjust to import
competition while allowing the Government to develop alternative policy
instruments  for  external  balance.      Thus,  the  total  reform  package
represents a serious and practical program for industrial structural
adjustment.
PART IV - TEE PROPOSED CREDITS
nackaround and Rationale for IDA Involvement
4.01     In 1986, Government opened discussions  with  the Bank on the need
for adjustment in the industrial sector.   The main elements of the adjust-
ment program, as summarized in Part III, emerged as part of extensive
sector work done in 1986. Detailed discussions of the Bank's sector report



- 20 -
(Kenya: Industrial Sector Policies for Investment and Export Growth) began
in May 1987, and continued through August 1987 with an inter-ministerial
committee representing the Ministries of Finance, Commerce, Industry and
Planning and the Office of the President as well as the Central Bank. The
proposed Credit was preappraised in October 1987 and appraised in January
1988. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1988. The Kenyan
delegation  was  led  by   Professor   G.  Saitot.,  Minister  of  Finance.
Supplementary data on the Credit is presented in ANNEX VIII.
4.02     With the support of the Bank  Group and the IMF, Kenya has started
to implement the macroeconomic reforms necessary to stabilize the economy
and prepare for resumed growth. At the same time, it has begun to imple-
ment significant sectoral adjustment programs in agriculture and industry.
The benefits of policy reform, however, will not appear overnight; conse-
quently, Kenya will continue to depend on larger net external inflows of
resources. Its already high debt-service ratio dictates that new external
finance be on concessional terms.
4.03     The policy  package  described  in  Part  III  and in Government's
Letter of Industrial Policy (ANNEX IX) directly addresses the most
troublesome issues facing Kenya's industrial sector: stagnant investment
and exports. Their revival is essential to revitalizing the sector and
enabling it to fulfill its otherwise high potential. The liberalization of
the trade regime and tariff reforms will help reduce the anti-export bias
of industry and improve  efficiency.    The proposed program, incluling the
decontrol of prices, lower taxation, streamlined procedures and regulations
for investment, divestiture of industrial public enterprises and easier
access to duty free inputs for exporters, represents a break from the
Government's past policies.    The  timing  of  implementation  and a brief
description of proposed reforms in each of the main policy areas are
presented in the matrix in ANNEX X.
Credit DescriPtion
4.04     The Bank Group would support  this  adjustment program with an IDA
Credit of SDR 73.6 million (US$102 million equivalent) and an African
Facility  Credit  of  SDR 7.2 million  (US$10  million  equivalent).   The
borrower would be the Government of Kenya, with the Ministry of Finance as
the implementing agency.   In  addition, several bilateral and multilateral
donors (Japan, United Kingdom, European Investment Bank and African
Development Bank) will cofinance the program, with total cofinancing over
the two-year period amounting to about US$90 million equivalent.
Financing Plan
4.05     Kenya's  gross  external  financial  requirements  during 1988-90,
consisting of the current account deficit, debt amortization and necessary
buildup in reserves, are expected to be US$2,807 million. Disbursements
from past grant and loan commitments are expected to be US$609 million.
Normal grant and loan disbursements from bilateral and non-World Bank
multilateral sources are projected to increase by 4 percent annually.
Adding the planned Vorld Bank lending program, IMF stand-by and SAP
arrangements still leaves a financing gap of US$143 million for 1989-90.
The Government's medium-term adjustment program includes a substantial



- 21 -
reduction in the budgetary and current account deficits by 1990 (para.
1.16). This adjuctment effort, however, needs to be supported by increased
foreign assistance, to finance the additional imports implied by the trade
liberalization  reforms  (para.   3.12),   the   current  account  deficit,
rebuilding rsserves, and the net transfer of resources to the IMF. Quick-
disbursing assistance is necessary for this operation because of the
limited capacity to absorb additional project aid and the need to ensure
that trade liberalization is not postponed due to a foreign exchange
shortage. The ISAC and its likely cofinancing, together with the second
tranche of the Agriculture Adjustment Operation, would eliminate the
financing gap in 1988 and leave small gaps in 1939 and 1990. The
Government  will  attempt  to  fill   this  gap  by  mobilizing  additional
concessional,  quick-disbursing  finance  from  bilateral  sources.   Given
Kenya's high debt-service ratio, the Government has rightly decided to
limit its borrowing from commercial sources.   To the extent that financing
gaps are not closed, the Government would have little option other than to
adopt tighter demand management policies and delay import liberalization
measures, thereby yielding slower growth, and possibly stagnation of per
capita income and consumption.   The  ISAC  and its likely cofinancing will
thus play a key role in support of Kenya's adjustment efforts.
Table 3: EXTERNAL FINANCING
cUSS millions)
1988        1989        1990
Total Financing Requirements               976         968         863
Disbursements from Existing
Commitments                            279          203         127
Disbursements from Expected
New Commitments                        697          688         670
Of which:  ISAC                     (62)         (50)       ---
Total Identified Financing                 976         891         797
Financing Gap                              ---          77          66
Disbursement and Procurement
4.06     The proposed Credits would  finance  the  foreign exchange cost of
imported goods, using  a  negative  list.    The  items  not to be financed
include goods financed by other sources and a specific list of excluded
items, such as military or para-military items and luxury goods such as
tobacco, precious stones,  etc.       Disbursements  from the Credit account
would be made against 100 percent of the foreign cost of eligible imports.
The Credits would also refinance the Project Preparation Facility and
finance technical assistance for studies on the costs of adjustment,
taxation, export incentives and promotion, and the restructuring of
development banks (ANNEX XI).    The  IDA  Credit  will be disbursed in two
tranches: the first SDR 37.5 million (US$52 million equivalent, including



- 22 -
US$1 million for technical assistance) would be available upon Credit
effectiveness and the remaining SDR 32.1 million (US$50 million equivalent)
would be made available  about  9-12 months  later.   The African Facility
Credit will be  disbursed with  the  first  tranche.   Disbursement of the
second tranche would be conditioned upon satisfactory implementation of the
actions described (ANNEX VIII) in the legal documents and general progress
under the program. The Credits are expected to be fully disbursed within
18 months of effectiveness.    The  Closing  date will  be March 31, 1990.
During this period, ISAC disburtements are projected to be equivalent to
3.7 percent of import payments, 39 percent of the current account deficit
and 2.9 percent of Central Government expenditures. Local currency funds
generated by the sale of foreign exchange provided by the credit would not
be earmarked for specific purposes, but ratgier, would be available without
restriction for use in the Government's budget. However, the Government
has given assurances that these funds will be used only for its development
budget.
4.07     Disbursements  for   contracts   procured   through  international
competitive bidding (ICB) would be made against fully documented withdrawal
applications. Disbursements for other items would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOE) detailing individual transactions in a
given period, together with certification of payment of the amounts
involved and of  their  eligibility  under  the  Credits.   The Ministry of
Finance would retain supporting documentation for SOEs until at least 12
months after the closing of the Credit accounts and make it available for
review to IDA supervision missions.   In order to accelerate disbursements,
a  special  account with   an   authorized  allocation  of US$20  million
(corresponding to about four months' payments expected to be made through
the special account) would be established in dollars at the Central Bank of
Kenya. Replenishments would be made monthly or when half of the initial
deposit has been utilized.
4.08     Procurement of imports would  be made following regular commercial
practices using not less than three quotations from suppliers or manufactu-
rers whenever possible, except when any one contract, for either public or
private sector imports, exceeds US$3.5 million, in which case, ICB would be
used and subjected to prior review by the Bank in accordance with World
Bank guidelines.
Audits. Revortina and Monitoring
4.09     The Ministry  of  Finance  and  the  Central  Bank would maintain
records of all transactions under the Credits in accordance with sound
accountia6 practices.  Not  later  than  six months  after the end of each
fiscal year of the Borrower, all accounts, including the Special Account,
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and submitted
to the Association. Audit reports would include a separate opinion with
regard to the claims submitted to IDA on the basis of SOEs and would state
whether such claims have been effected in accordance with the Credit
Agreements.
4.10     Monitoring will cover both  the  progress made in implementing the
specific reforms under the proposed Credits as well as regular assessments
of the adequacy of the macroeconomic policy framework. The Ministry of



- 23 -
Finance, as the implementing agency, will provide semiannual reports focus-
ing on trends in import and export volume and composition, changes in
tariff levels, prices and exchange rate, balance of payments position,
trends in money supply and credit, and actions taken in reference to public
enterprises, investment incentives and  export  promotion.   In addition to
regular review missions during Credit implementation, IDA staff will
coordinate with the IMF to ensure adequate monitoring of key economic poli-
cies and indicators.
Impact of the Program
4.11     Benefits.  Over the medium term, the reforms anticipated under the
proposed Credits will encourage a reorientation of the Kenyan economy
toward increased and more diversified exports of manufactured goods and
should help boost overall levels of investment in the industrial sector.
These  reforms  would  also   increase   employment  opportunities  in  the
industrial sector and would help soften the blows incurred from sharp
changes in the terms of trade. Koreover, the introduction of new financial
policy instruments and weaning Government from using import restrictions in
times of constrained foreign exchange resources will provide greater
flexibility  and  improve   the   effectiveness  of  overall  macroeconomic
management. The trade liberalization measures will help improve efficiency
in the sector, while the restructuring of the DFIs and their portfolios
will facilitate better utilization of public resources. Lower corporate
tax and tariff rates will reduce Government revenues, but will largely be
offset by increased revenues from a larger volume of imports.
4.12     Social Costs.   Nonetheless,  it  is  anticipated  that the reform
program will incur some real transitional costs, as a result of the removal
of price  controls   and   as   inefficient   enterprises  are  closed  or
restructured. These transitional costs, however, are expected to be small.
Although price controls will be removed during the first phase of the
adjustment program, the impact on prices is expected to be limited for
several reasons.   First,  recent  experience  with  the  decontrol of meat
prices in Kenya suggests that the supply response combined with consumer
resistance can effectively limit the extent of price increases. Second,
decontrol of prices for manufactured goods is not expected to adversely
affect consumers since competing imports will be more readily available.
Third, in a number of instances, controlled items encounter substantial
domestic competition which will help reduce the scope for raising prices.
Fourth, price decontrol can also be expected to encourage investment and
increased capacity utilization, which will both generate additional
employment and dampen price increases.   Although the costs associated with
price decontrol are expected to be small and shortlived, the Bank will
regularly review the impact on prices and consumers as part of its ongoing
economic and sector work and the monitoring of the adjustment program.
4.13     The trade liberalization component of the program is also expected
to affect inefficient industries, especially in the second phase as
competition from imports  increases.    Much  of Kenya's current industrial
sector, however, is sufficiently efficient to respond to gradual trade
liberalization through modest improvements in efficiency rather than
widespread plant closings and layoffs.   The loss of jobs will be minimized
by introducing incentives for new investment prior to the lowering of



- 24 -
protection.   Although  the  additional  jobs  necessary  to absorb Kenya's
rapidly expanding labor force will need to come mainly from agriculture,
rural non-farm activities, and the informal sector, a more efficient
industrial sector will make an important contribution through its strong
backward and forward linkages with these sectors. As part of planned work
on the social dimensions of adjustment, the Bank will review the impact of
adjustment measures in Kenya and, where appropriate, support Government
efforts to reduce transitional costs that may arise.
Risks
4.14     The risks  associated with  the  proposed  Credits  relate to the
overall  macroeconomic  framework,  the   Government's  commitment  to  the
program,  and  its  capability  to  implement  it.    First,  macroeconomic
stability may be elusive, particularly in the face of unforeseen external
events or internal pressures.    Second,  although the Government backs the
proposed  program,  some   officials   and  politicians  remain  skeptical,
particularly in light of the failure of similar programs in other African
countries. Finally, weak administrative capabilities in Kenya could slow
the implementation of the program.    Several  steps have been taken in the
preparation and design of this program to mitigate these risks. IDA staff
have worked closely with officials in the Ministry of Finance and elsewhere
in Government to  ensure  solid  commitment  to    and understanding of all
elements of the program.  The studies supported by the IDA Credit will also
provide direct assistance to the Government in implementing key components
of  the  program.    Finally,   the  intensive  collaboration  between  the
Government, IDA and the IMF which  has  brought the proposed Credit to its
present status will be maintained in order to ensure its successful
implementation.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit and African Facility
Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and
with Resolution No. IDA 85-1 adopted on May 21, 1985 by the Executive
Directors of the Association.    I  therefore  recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Development Credit and African Facility
Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
May 24, 1988



- 25 -
ANNEX I
KENYA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
A C T U A L        EST.                PROJECTION
19i4    1985    198im   TW      1988    1989   1990   1991    199
CDP (at n.p.) Crowth Rate            2.8      3.7    6.5      6.1    4.8    5.1       5.4    5.1    5.1
QNP Grorth Rate                      2.0       8.6    8.5    5.2    4.8    5.7        5.8    5.8    5.3
GNP/CapIta Growth Rate              -1.7      0.0    2.4    1.4    1.0        1.9    1.7    1.5    1.5
Consumption/Capita Growth Rate       2.5      3.8    1.8    6.8   -1.8    1.0    1.6          1.4    1.6
Total DOD (USS millions) !/        8144    8838   4114    4208   450s   4768   4942   S18S   S967
DOD/XGS /a                         206.8   240.4  217.9  243.1  247.9  239.4  233.5  226.2  201.7
DOD/DP7                            s58.8    86.6   59.4   54.    62.9   50.s   49.8   48.7   44.0
Debt Service (USS millions)         S 581   829    711    679    647   e66          837     690    612
Debt Service/XGS= J                  84.8    89.4   87.7   39.8   86.6   88.4   80.1   28.0   20.7
Debt Service/CDP 1/                  9.9    10.7   10.8    8.8        7.8    7.1    6.4       5.6    4.5
Gross Investment/GOP                21.0    21.8   25.7   28.7   24.2   28.9   28.8   24.0   28.9
Domestic Savings/CDP                19.6    20.7   25.1   18.8   20.5   21.0   21.6   21.7   21.5
National Savings/CDP c/             18.8    17.9   22.2   15.8   17.9   18.9   19.7   19.9   20.8
MarginaI National Savings Rate       5.1    28.6   54.1  -10.4   87.6   8S.1   82.6   21.8   20.9
Public Investment/GDP J              8.0      7.1    9.0    9.0    8.2        7.8    7.0    7.0    7.0
Government Savings/COP              -1.6    -0.8   -0.1    0.8    0.8    1.0    0.8    1.0    1.S
Prtvate Investment/COP  :/            9.5    11.8   12.6   18.2   18.8   18.1   12.7   12.8   18.5
Private Savings/GDP /                18.4    18.7   28.1   16.8   17.1   17.9   18.9   18.9   18.8
Public/Private/Investment  /        84.2    60.7   71.2   68.2   61.7    s8.0   55.1   c4.7   51.9
Government Revenue/GDP !/           28.0    22.7   28.8   28.7   24.2   24.8   25.0   25.0   24.s
Grante/GDP                           0.7       1.7    1.1    2.4    2.9    2.7        2.6    2.5    2.0
GOvernmeent Expenditures/COP        27.6    80.6   80.6   88.4   31.8   81.8    80.9   80.0   27.6
Budget Deficit/0OP f 2/              8.9      5.8    s.6    8.1    4.2        8.8    3.4    2.5    1.5
Exports Growth Rate                  1.9       5.9   10.2   -2.7      0.9    8.5      2.9    3.6    4.0
Exports/CDP                         27.7    28.5   28.7   22.0   21.1   20.8   21.0   21.2   21.4
Imports rowkh Rate .i              17.9    -8.2    17.8   -8.5    0.8    4.8         2.8    5.0    4.7
~re4mports/00P                         29.2    27.8   27.8   27.8   24.8   23.7   28.8   23.6   28.9
Current Account Balance,          -120      -98    -88    -408   -302    -226    -148   -158   -152
Including official transfers
(US$ millions) I/
As X of GDP                         -2.0    -1.6    -1.8    -5.2   -3.5   -2.4   -1.4   -1.5   -1.1
Current Account Balance,          -23e    -203   -237   -808   -525    -459   -384   -412   -480
excluding offic)al transfers
(US3 millions) J
As X of CDP                         -4.0    -8.6   -8.4   -7.9   -4.2    -4.9   -8.9   -8.9   -8.4
Terms of Trade Index (1988=100)    106.8    88.8  100.0   74.8   78.6   82.8   86.8   89.1   93.7
t/ Including public debt, IMF credit, financing gap and estimated non-guarantead private debt.
Including public debt service, obligation and charg to IMF, debt service for financing gap and
estimated non-guaranteed private debt service.
Excluding official transfers.
G Gross fixed Investment; excludes changes In stocks.
J  Implicitly Includes parastatal savings, for which separate data are nat available.
1/ Year ending June 80.
g Including cash adjustments.
h/ Refer. to goods and non-factor services. Special Imports are excluded in 1987 and 1988.
/ Counting official transfers 'above the line" as an Item contributing to the determination
of the current account deficit.
Counting official transfors Obelow the lines as an Item contributing to the financing
of the current account deficit.



- 26 -
101 - Iusri.L x6C18                                          dM0  11
1ws Per Calfh  Or in U58t So0
id-1966 Population 011il): 21.0                                                                                  Page I f 2
A. National Accout- Idicato wo Share. of OP (S):
Projeated sares of CDP
Hltoical Ober" of ID (in Currens $riee)          Prpll-.        (IN Cotant 19s Price.)
low     1978    1"D9   1962    1o"       19w     1if6    S967      16        196    10    1995
Groom osmotic Product *.p.    100.0   100    1.0  100.0   100.0  SA00    100.0  SO0.0            100.0      NO.0   1.0   100.0
M" IWiect Taves               8.1    10.1    18.1    15.7    14.0    18.0    1.9    18.6        1U.8       13.8    18.6    18.6
Agrlcultoro                  82.4    81.0     7.8,    6.2    2.8    25.6    18.6   25.4         20.4      26.2    24.9    2S.4
Inrdut?*                    1U.7    15.0    1.6 18.0   17.7    15.1    17.8    17.8             17.8      17.8    17.8    17.9
(of which rolufecuring)      10.'    10.6    11.2    10.9    10.9    10.6    10.8    10.2       10.2      10.2    10.2    10.7
Services                     42.6   89.4      6.6   4*0.1    41.0    42.4    48.2    43.8       48.6       48.7    44.0    44.9
Resource  lnce                 0.?    -1.S   -11.4    -4.6    -1.5    -1.1    -0.8   -2.7         -1.1      -0..    -0.4    -1.4
avert. of an                 81.4    27.4  2a.0    24.6        7.7    *6.8    26.7    24.8      *6.9      26.5    *2.9    21.7
Xart of On                   80.7    26.7    40.0    ".8    29.2    27.6    27.8    27.8        24.9      24.0  2S.4    28.0
Toal  Lapeodituro.             99.8   101.8   111.4   104.8   101.5   11.1   10.8   102.7        101.1      100.8   100.4   101.4
Totl Consumption             64.9    78.8    61.4    62.2    60.4    79.8    74.9    790-       76.9      76.6    76.6    77.5
Private Conaatilon         70.1    89.0    61.1    68.2    62.0    60.9    55.6    89.7        60.1      60.7    61.7    66.8
Geri o        ternet       14.8    16.8    20.8    19.0    18.4    18.4    19.4    19.8        16.7      16.9    18.0    11.2
Groe DOmotle  nveetost      14.4   2*.6    80.0    26.4    21.0    21.6    25.7    2a.7        24.2      2a.9    28.6    28.9
Fised Investment           12.8    20.4   2*.    19.6    17.6    18.9    21.6    20.0          21.2      21.4    21.6   22.0
Change, In Stocks           1.6     8.4     6.8      2.6     8.6     2.9     4.1     8.7       8.0        2.8     2.2     1.9
cepeity to  eowrt               --      -       -       -       -        -      26.7    22.1      21.2      21.1    21.1    20.6
Term of Trade Adjumat           --              --      -        -       -       0.0    -2.7      -2.7      -2.4    -1.6    -1.1
re  Gomec Income                -       -       ---     -       -        -     100.0   97.8       97.8      97.8    96.2    98.9
re"   til To            -       - --            -       -       -        -      96.8    98.7      98.6      94.6    qs.a    a.9
cram Ntional Product                                                            16.8    96.4        .s      97.0    97.2    96.0
are. Omeetie Saving            18.1    24.8    18.6    17.6    19.6    2D.7    28.1    10.8       20.S      21.0    21.5    21.8
I4t Poctor Income            -2.6    -8.0   -4.2    -4.1    -.6   -4.         -4.7      .6      -8.5     -4..0    -2.8   -2.0
Not Current Trandfra a/               1.2     2.0     2.1      8.0     8.8     8.1     8.7       8.7       8.8      8.7     8.9
are. National Saving            ..    20.7    17.4    15.8    19.0    20.2    24.5    18.4        20.7      21.5   S2.4    28.8
w/ Including officil transfers.
B. tational Account Growth et.. (5) *t Co_Atont Pries:
Actul                            Prell.                PrWojtlono
167  1978-6    196        162    1984    195    19o6    1967        196       199  1966-91  1990-9
Oroe_ Osmeatic Product a.p.    8.8      4.6     8.6     0.6     2.8      8.7     6.8     5.1       4.8       S.1     8.1      8.1
Net ndiret Te1t                              14.0   -12.0    12.2   -0.7    11.6       4.0       4.6       8.1      4.9     6.1
Agriculture                   6.2     8.7     1.1     4.7    4.8       8.6     4.6     4.5       4.8       4.8      4.8     8.6
induatry                     12.4     6.7      .1   -4.6      2.2      8.0     5.2     4.9       4.6       8.2     5.2      5.6
(Of hich HDnufOcturing)      12.4     6.9     8.2     2.2     4.3     4.8      8.9     4.7       4.7       8.0     5.1      6.0
Servicoe                      7.6     6.2     8.5     8.4     8.4      4.0     6.6     6.8       5.0       0.6     8.8 o S   6
Experts of GM                 4.8     0.8     8.4    -.4       1.9     6.9    10.2   -2.7        0.9       8.8      1.9     8.9
reports of @06               S.7      2.8    15.0   -16.6    17.9    4.2    17.8       8.8 b/   -4.9 b/    1.8     1.8      4.8
Totl ispeiture.                 8.8     5.2     7.0   -4.6      6.2      0.6     6.2     7.6       8.2       4.6     4.9      6.8
Total Conaumption             6.6     8.7     0.0     2.1      6.8     0.0     6.2    10.9       1.9       4.8      5.2     8.8
Private Consnuption         6.8     4.7   -0.7      8.2      9.0     0.9     4.e    14.7       8.8       6.2      7.4     6.6
General Overron_t          18.1     9.1     2.2    -1.8    -1.0    -2.8      7.8     4.2      -9.0       0.0    -1.6   -0.9
Groeg iomutic Inveetment     15.9     4.1    84.6   -2S.2   -0.1       7.6    21.0   -4.2        7.2       8.8     4.1      5.1
Flsod Inveetment                            2.6  -W0.8   -4.8    18.8    18.    -2.8           11.8      6.1      6.0     8.4
Change in Stac               ..      ..      ..       .     40.4   -*8.6    81.0    -4.9      -14.9    -12.4    -8.4      2.1
Capacity to Import                                                                     -18.8       O.S       4.6     1.2     4.2
Tepr  of Trado Adju_nt           .               .                                                                   a"      A"
Greos 0o-tic Incme              7.      4.4      .6      ..      ..      ..       ..     2.2       4         8.8      .0     8g.2
area Nbtional Incom             7.7     4.6     8.2      ..      ..      ..       ..     2.8       4.9       6.1     6.2      6.4
Crmon National Product         8.8      8.0     6.8      ..      ..      ..       ..     8.2       4.8       S.7     6.8     8.
Gram Dooeetia Sawing           12.0     0.1    17.8      ..      ..      ..       ..   -2*.7      17.8       7.9     4.5     4.9
Net Factor Icome                                                                      -0.2      -8.7      10.1   -2.2    4.6
Nat Current Tr_fe              ..      ..      ..      ..      ..        .      ..    26.0       8.6      -O.5      7.2     6.8
Oro" National Saving            ..       .    27.        ..      ..      ..       ..   -.2        19.       11.2     S.7      .7
b/ Includes epi-l isporte of gunbot. and airbuee.



- 27 -
EWDA - NATIONAL ACCunIs (continued)                                    ANOC X1
PFe 2 of 2
C. Price Indices (1980-100):                      Actul                      Prelt      ath Rate. C pa&)
1980    196      196"     18    18          19    1968-76  1973-80  1980-8
Consumer Prices (IFS 84)        100.0   184.?   165.4   187.0   194.4   213.8          8.2    13.6    18.1
Whol.el* Price. (IFS 6s)                              .
I-plicit CDP Deflator           100.0   124.1   147.8   162.5   V76.1   195.9          2.4    11.9    10.2
Implicit Expand. Deflator       100.0   138.1   156.7   177.0   18s.s   207.5          2.6    12.4    11.7
D0flator for Sector VA:
Agricultural Sector           100.0   119.7   142.1   181.s   168.2   179.5           6.2    11.7    10.8
Indutrial Sector              100.0   119.7   189.6    165.1   164.4   180.9    12.4    10.6    10.5
Service. Sector               100.0   121.9   145.0   168.8   181.1   200.8           7.6    10.8    12.7
D. Other Indlcatora:           1965-78  1978-60  19S0-63  198-5                                16s5     197      1980    1966    19
Growth Rate. (I p.a.)
Population                      8.8      4.0      4.1      8.7          Share of Total
Labor Force                                                            Labor Forfc In:
are" Noatl Income P.C.          8.7      0.5    -2.9       1.6            Agriculture        86.1    8S.7    61.0
Private Con.Aption p.c.         1.8      0.5    -2.8       3.0            Industry            5.1      6.0      6.6
Services            8.8    10.4    12.1
Import Elaaticitjv;                                                          Total            100.0   100.0   100.0
Imports (Q"S)/aDP(mp)           0.7      0.5    -4.4       0.7
Marginal Sevina Rate.:
Gros. National Svinga                  -11.6    28.5    22.7
Groe. Dometic Saving.          88.4   -19.1    16.8    21.6
ICOR (period average)             8.6      3.8      9.2      4.7
EL National Acosunte (mllion, of LOU. at 1966 Price.):
Actual                        Prel In.                 Projection.
1980    1962    1968    1984    1965    196          1987    198       199      1990    19       19ms
Ora" Domestic Product m.p.       4688    4889      4958    800    6270    61is    5s9          ala6   6S01    651    7198    87
Nat  ndirect Taxes              842      9o0      680      707      702     7S2      814       ssa     897      945      99      1211
Agriculture                    111      1        1s86o la"  12     1870    1436      101    1566    1689    1708    1773    2058
Xnduetry                        814      e44    S6l        879      928     971    1019    106        1128    118S    12S4    1sn
(of which Mawfacturing)         481      478      499      521     544      576      606      682      668      700      742      937
Service                        1851    2045    2099    2171    2278    2425    2868    2694    2642    8018    3179    39s6
Resource  al ance                -883     -m1        el    -106        57      -30    -159       66      44       430      -54    -121
Export, of MPS                 1301    1242    1262    1286    13681   S102    1461    1475           16       1671    1627    1901
Imort orf GNFS                 2165    1441    1181    1392    1306    1s88         1820     141    1561    1o6t    1682    2022
Total Expenditure.               5571    80m8    487        5186   S818    6645    6058    6249    658           688l    7252    6698
Tot l Ceumtion                 8a68    a7        a764    407       4017    4208    4662    4768    4982    58           825    6900
Privat Consumption           2721    2r75      2707    3062    3000   a3i1        8524    8118    S47    4225    449    860
Oeneral Oovernnwnt           1097    1028    1057    1046    107          1092     11ss    1O0S    10SS    1026    1026         980
roin Domtic Investment         1752    1S3S      1118    1106    1197    1442    1s39        1496    1554    16O        1727    2098
Fixed Investment             1395    11a        995      942    1070      1212    1178    1311       39l    ,.480    1669    1931
Change in Stocks              356      1"4      1la    l6        127      229     218      1S8      lS       181      156      167
Caaci;ty to Import               1848    1196      1148    18U        1289    1802    1302    1s9       1371     1447     is18    107
Term  of Trade Adjuatmnt          225      -59    -182         4    -140         0     -160    -166    -155      -12S    -110       -94
Oro" Domestic Incomeo 913    4830    462                    54    s50    s81          5740    6017      64       626    7088   0a6
Grow National  ncom              4786    4672    4664    4935    4950    S406   S5S    s5c0    S618             6552    6697    6807
Oro"u National Product           4U1    4731    4796    4932    8090    5406   s869            5966   O630    6s66    7007    8601
Ora" Domestic Saving             1094    1051    1062    1006    1114    1412    1078    1265    1364    1476             1ssa    1888
Nat Factor Income              -127    -1i8      -162    -149    -180    -209    -210    -218    -196    -195    -191    -176
Nat Current Tranafora            9f      100       9w      144      18o     174      218      2S0    2g9        247      267      842
Grw Nion. I  Savi;n              1063      99n       9s     lOO1    1098    1377    1086    1277    1ee7         1836    1629    17SS



- 28 -
EmSA -  (TOKAL. IRA8E
A. Volume. Value and Prices
lerchandise Exorte                                                           Volume Index 1980.100
Commodity 1  Coffee        100.0    128.1    112.9    121.0    130.?    1S7.9    131.2    136.2    141.6    143.8    148.9   170.9
Commodity 2  teo           100.0    107.S    133.6    121.9    168.9    155.T    178.6    168.9    168.9    168.9    166.9   189.8
dity a  Petroleum          100.0      S4.8     41.9      43.8     40.1      45.7     29.9      80.5      81.1     81.8      82.4    85.1
manuft cure                100.0      89.4     87.8      99.8    108.2      96.1     9.9    .0.9    109.1    118.7    t22.8   1B4.8
other Exports              100.0    "9.0    102.8        93.4     92.0    119.2    121.8    106.8    118.2    117.7    122.4   148.2
Total March. Exporte FoB    100.0     91.7     88.l      87.2     90.8    104.6      97.8      98.7      99.8    102.0    105.4   123.0
Merchandise Exrrte                                                  Value..Current Pricge (mIllion LB80
Commodity 1  Coffee        291       265      241       288      281       479      2S4       289       298      813       882     428
Commdity 2  Too             188      142       188      263      283       214      204       208       234      260       290     377
Commod Ita   Petroleum     445       277      208       198       148      128       97       104       1O0      114       123     16S
Mamnfacturem               2e2       194       168      162      169       192      211       232       256      271       291     887
Other Exports              21S       184      lea       172      148       205      219       206       225      248       270     896
Total Merch. Exports FODB   189     1042      981      1078      977      1217      985      1018      ills     1204      1308    1788
Merchandise Immort                                                    Volume Index 1980l.1
Food                       100.0      82.0     69.7    168.9    129.5       94.8     94.5      94.8      96.2     98.1    10.6   110.2
POL and Other Energy       100.0      76.9     70.8      89.2     70.0      72.3     78.7      75.2      76.7     79.0      81.4    91.6
Other Imports              100.0      60.8     50.1      80.8     58.9      70.2     72.0      72.2      76.5     78.2      82.1    99.6
Other Coneumer Goods     100.0      58.9     42.0      49.8     46.8      32.6      53.9     54.0      57.0     58.2      61.4    78.7
Intermediate Goode       100.0      59.8     59.8      65.2     70. 8 68.8         70.0      70.1      74.2     78.9      79.8    97.5
Capital Goode             100.0     62.5     44.2      59.4     51.6      7S.2      66.6     65.7      89.4     70.2      74.0    87.4
Total March. Imports CIF    100.0     68.4     47.1      61.4     54.2      67.8      65.2     65.8      68.4     69.9      78.5    88.4
herchandlo Imports                                                  Valu*-Currant Price (a; II ion fJS
Food                       199       126      180       18       141       1E4      168       172       l8S      188       205     294
POL and Other Energy       876       61s      801       486      461       295      808       aS8      S8       w86       400     S60
Other Imports             1509       909      731       871      85s      1201      1898     1845      1422     1446      1546    1978
Other Consumer aoode     148        82       60        70       66        88       98       107       121      128       140     201
Intermediate Goods       614       864      S82       880      417       475      516      S4        609      820       60o    860
Capital Goods            747       463      819       421       870      687       S97      622       892      698       748     928
Total Morch. importe CIF   2584     1848      1862     1S22      1458     1649    m166       1848      1945     2002      2151    282
Tar_ at Trade                                                       Price Indic"s 1980.100
Morch. Exports Price Indico  100.0    120.S    144.6    178.5    171.1    18S.1    1.589    165.9    178.9    188.7    19S.0   224.8
Merch. mports Price Indice  100.0    147.1    188.2    192.6    227.9    216.2    262.4J  249:6    250.7    252.5    258.2   282.8
Merch. Terms of Trade      100.0      81.9     76.8      90.1     75.1      8.7      62.9J   66.4        70.2     78.5      75.5    79.4
-. Share of Total X or 14 MII at Currnt Prices                                            C. Growth Rites tD at Constant Price
Merchandiso Exrorts
Commodity 1   Coffee        25.1      29.2     21.0      89.8     25.4      24.2                6.4      2.0       4.2       0.1     8.8
Commodit  2   Tea           12.9      13.8      11.2     17.S     22.2      21.5               14.9       9.2     10.0       0.4     2.7
Cmodity S   Petroleum        0.1       7.7     82.0      10.5      9.4       9.5                6.8      -2.8    -16.8      -4.8     2.)
Manufacturee                82.9      1S.8     20.8      15.8     22.8      22.1                -         -        2.7       8.0     6.0
Other Exports               61.9      49.8     15.5      16.8     20.7      22.6                -         -       -1.6       0.2     4.0
Total Merch. Exporta FOB    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                  8.8      -1.5     -2.8       0.6     8.8
Merchandise Imorts
Food                         6.9       6.9      7.7       9.8      9.5      10.4                -         -        8.9       1.8     6.0
POL & Other Energy          11.3      11.1     98.9      17.9     l8.6      19.8                -         -       -7.1       2.4     8.0
Other Import                80.7      82.0     58.4      72.8     71.9      69.8                -         -       -9.7      2.0      5.1
other Consumer Coods      18.7      10.8      8.7       5.4      6.8       7.1                -         -      -14.1       6.0     7 9
IntAermediate Goode        8.8      15.1     28.8      28.8     80.7      80.0                -         -       -8.2      8.1      8.1
Capital Goods             86.6      56.1      28.9     88.6     84.6      82.7                -         -      -12.1       0.4     4.8
Total March. Imports CIF    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                  5.9       2.4    -11.4       2.0     4.8
v/ Import price Index Is derived by dividing the import value Index by the import volume index.
The import value for 1987 includes tao naval vessels, which are not raflected in the ihport volumn Index.
The derived  mport price index ie therefore exaggerated. Without the value of the naval vessels. the
import price Index would be 227 in 1987, and the term of trade index would be 70.



- 29 -
K(fWA -        2ALACE OP PAWENTS                          ANNEX IV
(Use Si I Iions at Current Prices)
pae 1 Of 2
AcUtal                        PrFrl.         Projections
_______.____ -  --------
1980    1982    1988    1984    1985    1966    197    196           1989    1990    1998
A.  Eatports of Goods A NFS      20S0     157    1497    1621    158i   1851    1890    1798    1964    2084    298t
1. Merchandiee (FIB)           1261     9S8      927    1034      948    1217       988     1t0l     11S    1204    1788
2. Non-Factor Service*          769     64S      570      Y87      BID     684      70e      778      849     Sao    1548
8.  Import. of Goods & NFC       287    1749    1S24    1709    I181        1688    2108    2111    2286    2S07    8240
1. S erohand ae (FOB)          2878    1468    1198    1348    127S    1440    1697    1646    1722    1m             2862
of which:  pecial            0        0       0        0        0       0      167       6S        0       0        0
2. Non-Factor Servie.           460     281      826      861      839     448      406      464      814     am       714
C.  Resurce Balance              -807    -170      -27      -a8      -62     -87    -413    -S16    -272    -228    -844
0.  Net Faetor Income            -226    -258    -191    -208    -228    -286    -268    -262    -268    -2             -208
1. Factor Recelpts               84      86       87       48      48       87       89       24      29       SS       64
2. Factor Payments              280      820     228      257      268     298      802      806      298     263      267
(interest pay-ento)          1S0     212      198      211     219      248      287      241     229      217      199
E.  Net Current Transferm         147    lS       180      177      192     206      278      298     al8      SSS      S98
1. Official                     S20      so      116      117      IIO     149      208      224     238      242      808
2. Private                       27      8S       68       60       61      87       68       74       CS      91       87
F.  Current Account Balance      -8W     -292      -38    -120       -98     -88    -408    -802    -226    -14S    -SS2
0.  Long-Term Capital Inflow      #47      84       18      1.       -1      274      201      271     $19      252      226
1. Direct Inveetment a/          78       a        9        4       18       0        0        0      14       14       14
2. Official Capital  rant.        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0
8. Not LT Loans (OFS data)      420     218      124      2B9       38     827      208      256      212     16O      1iO
a. Disbursements            5838      98      807      809      288     862      468      589     488      448      488
Repayments               118      18S     184      220      282     286      282      261      276     274      274
4. Other LT Inflows (not) b/     49    -184      -18    -160    -100       -82       -2       18       98      69       as
M.  Total Other Items (net)       144      11                81      SO      -98      1S0       45      20       20       20
1. Met Short Tore Capital       184      29      -14       41      26      -68        0       0        0        0        0
2. Capital Flow N.EI.             0       0        0        0       0        2      lo0       25       0        0        0
a. Error, nid Oistins            tO     -19       20      -1O       S      -18        0       20      20       20       20
oVUiLL 8A.ANCE (PF*014)        -198    -198       8S       45    -115       90      -98       15      11a     1SO       94
I.   inancing                     195     198      -86     -48       l18     -90       98      -16    -118    -10        -944
1. ht Credit from IMP            69     149       94      -11      88    -106    -107         81     -41      -71      -6
2. Other Reservo changes        126      49    -180       -84       89      1S      208      -4S     -72      -89      -89
(- indicates increaae)
ShMare of CDP (Current U8I)
1. Reeource Balance             -11.4    -2.7    -0.5    -1.8    -1.1    -0.8    -5.4   -4.7    -2.9    -2.8    -2.5
2. Total Intaroet Payments        2.8      8.4      8        .S 36   8.7     8.6      8.1      2.8     2.4      2.2      1.8
8. Current Account Bailnce      -12.8    -4.7    -0.7    -2.0    -1.6    -1.8    -8.2   -4.8    -2.4    -1.4    -1.1
4. LT Capital Inflow (l ine 0)    7.7     1.8      2.1      2.8    -0.9      4.0      2.6      8.2     8.4      2.8      1.7
S. Net Credit from the IMP        1.0     2.4      1.6    -0.2      0.9    -1.8    -1.4        0.4    -0.4    -0.7    -0.8
Nesrandus Iteia
0CP in Current USt               7098    8244    8740    i8t4    8688    6921    7698         81iS    9487    9914   13849
Foreign Exchange Reserves:
1. Int'l. Reserves (IFS lId)     492      212      876      890     891      428      220      268     887      898   878.a
2. Growe Reerves inl. Cold        689     248      406      414     417       --       -        -       -        -        -
8. CGros Rae. in Month Import    2.1      1.8      8.0      2.7     2.9      2.7      1.8      1.5      1.8     2.1      8.2
Exchane Rates (LCU/USS):
1. Now. Off. XRate (ISM rh)      7.42    10.92    18.81    14.41    16.43   16.28   16.87       -       -        -        -
2. Real Eff. X-Rate (1980b100)  1C.0   100.6    98.8   102.1   101.0         --       -        -       -        -        -
3. X-Rats for CNP Conversion     7.42    10.92    18.81   14.41   16.48    16.28    16.87       _       _
*/ Source:   IS.
b/ Residual between total MLT eapital in the official Kenya  WP and the above _coponent.



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
KENYAt EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS 1987-1995
(USS millions)
1989-91      1992-95
(annual      (annual
1987     1988     average)      average)
Financing Requirements                    845      976        899            925
Current Account Teficit
(excluding official transfers)        608     525         418           442
Public Debt Amortization              334     318         330            387
IP Repurchases                        107      87          87            38
Change in Reserves (miniu s
decrease)                            -205      46          63            59
Identified Financina                      845      976        815            786
Official Transfers                    205     224         243            287
Public MLT Loan Disbursements         535     589         500            465
IMF Purchase                            0     118          38              0
Other (net)                           104       45         34             34
Financina Gav                               0        0        -84           -139
Memorandum Items
Current Account Deficit; excluding
official transfers as 2 of GDP          7.9      6.2        4.2            3.6
Net Bank/IDA Transfers                     12       70         39             23
Disbursements                         130      195        177            156
Amortization                           49       57         71             80
Interest                               68       68         66             53



- 31 -
*V.? 2
MM -   WL CAPIL  CTW
(WS mi "lI I na at Ciart Price-)
A.4
I. Pubic A Pibbtlicp  Jaar. LT   SU8     8a"        807       509       26M    U12           485       539       488       443       420      483
Official Crditor             266       S20       281       411       249        284       416       491       887       30        834      8M
Ilulti lateral             174       205       15O        18        141       137      iUS        270       280       238       230    8g4
of whichl 9,             45       8as       10         i8         77        S1        43        46        89        31        27        6
.f which m               7         65        so        as6       40        8a         87       147       14        14        145      15
iit lateral                 92       114       131       804       10       148        811       U60 to7             114       104      114
Private Creito.              272        78        26        23        89       299         89       106       102        99        86        6
Suppliemr                   25         0         2        12        29         44        81        24        21       1is        1        19
Finacial Harket            247        7S        24        10        11       255         87        N         ao        75        :0       77
2. Privat Non-ear. LT            07                 173        44       169        50         50        S0       17        182       159      9I6
S. Totl LT Oieurremnt           a2s       490       480        "a       457       632        535 W      8s       818       665       578      629
6.XlUPar4ae                      6        16 27     140        49         0         0         0        113       8as        2          0        0
S. Not Short-TerCcapital        i1         29       -14        41        2s       -6           0         0         0         0         0        0
B. Total mrl. IW & Not ST    8w           687       806       642       462      5so         585       707       701       a9        573      S"
S.
I. Public A   6blicly Guar. LT   18      1in       1e4       220       252       256       282       281        276       274      289        74
Official Creditor             3         so         4                 12         145       158       174       188       202       202      1"
Multilateral                12        22        26        42        56         57        S1        94        97       106       106       97
of which I               it        16        17        28        3          42        47        S4        60        69        73       89
otwhichW A                1         1         1         1         2          2         2         2         a         4         a        9
oIlateral                   27        29        86        34        67         78        78        so        91        96        9        S7
Private Creditor79                     182       119       124       129        III       124       107        as        73        87      110
Suppliers                24        28        20        20        15         16        1s        19        14        15        17       26
Finarcial Markets        Ss       109        99        04       114         9        109        8s        75        as        70       e6
2. Private Nam-mar. LT          8a         73        77                  86       102        53         87        84        47         4       0
1. Total LT Repayate            20S       2m6      281        316        398      256       834        a1        310       821       843      877
6. UU Purdgam                     9       .19        46        59        71       lOS       107         87      127         9e6                36
r. Znluaal
L. Public & Publicly Ger. LT   189        in        181       1         144       174       188        182       180       17        171      142
OJicial Creditor.             62         o        77        0        107        183       182       188       181       127       1812      0l
utilaterahl                 3y7       s9        4s        M5        63         6S        80        SI1       S1        7  7S              aS
of wichI 131S                      29        85        48        54         73        64        63        62        60        56       85
of hich IDA               1         2         2         8         3          4         5         5         6         7         a       11
Bilateral                   25        80        38        64        44        48         52        52        S0         6        46       34
Priv     Creditor             71        as         S        4S        37.        41         5        49        49        49        49       40
suppliers                   14         9         6         6         a          a        11        11        12        12        12       10
Financial Mariket           S7        75        47                  82        83         44        87        87        8S        87       80
?. Privat  non-Guar. LT          89        82        as        37        as        31         14        is        to        25        80       s
3. Trabl LT Interet             173       l8       1i         172       182       205       202        197       196       2C2       201      196
1. llF Siervice Cro               7        2S        2go        4        8S        42        aS         44        30        15        11        2
S. nter.   on SYrbt =.                      n.na      n. n.- eta          r.n       0         0         0          0         0         0        0
S. Total il . W &MST            18        206       196       206       220       248       237        241       229       217       211      199
04



- 32 -
I                                                  e    f 2
zy81 *Ille  at Carrmnt Prict)
o. 2starnal                                     C T U Aran                m-n L  PI
1. Public A Publlly duar. LT 2214   2488      248      2819     287      848a      86m8     88m4     4106     428       4406    4987
Offi-cil CrItr.          186       1726     1661     21         2       2M98    0ao       8818      8S12     8661     87      4891
aItl lsXrsl             70r      947     1047      1226    1is       1481     1868      174      1894     202      214     2599
of ah"ich 1111        806      424      806      669       711      72       715       709      687      649      608     848
of wch iA             220      819      884     838        414      489      a"        o8       80       9        111    1878
9i lateral               684      77       615      o6n      17       184      1491    1an7       1617     1686     1848    1791
Prvate Creditor           854   712           r4      4e4o     a         e<    o      ao   S          4       els      e14     se
It lor      O        Sy    ee            S        2       79       its   w       s   130       V40               in      123
pinaneicl mrete          6es      6o       808      878       816      827      46       481       457      478      474     484
2. Private Naon-wr. LT       487      88a       481      42       a1       268       s60      278      866      441       840     968
8. Totl Lans-Term 008      2g81    2g2m        "s1   a8           am       am       S8       4,17     4472      476      494    8a
4. PF Credit                 198       82       426     s87       449       418  ss6          87       296       22S       19      so
S. Short-To  Debt              a.n        n .e"n.n         n.       n0                     0        0         0                 0
6. Totl tncl. PIW A   t ST    m49     811    8S42       844      a        4114      4208     4808     4768      4942     Sim    s598
Percent of Total LT O2D:
1. On Canceteonol Term        27.8     82.4      81.8     88.8     s6.6     41.2     46.8      80.4     58.2     86.2    s8.6    66.f
2. With Vartabl. lat. Rate.   2S.8     22.0      17.4     12.4      9.8     14.2      11.7     10.8     10.2      10.1      9.6     7.4
E. bnnk nd IDA Ratire
Share of Total LT MD
1.  M as S of Total           11.8     15.0      17.4     22.0     21.0     19.6      18.4     17.0     18.4     18.8      12.2    8.4
2. IDA as S of Total           8.8      11.8     11.8     11.9     12.2     12.4      14.0     18.8     18.6     20.6      22.4   28.s
8. IDIDA as I of Total        19.0     26.8      2.8      88.9     88.2    81.9       82.8     88.8     33.9     84.8      84.6   34.C
Shkare of Li Debt Serv/
1. II  or S of Totl            2.9      8.7       4.2      8.6      7.1     20.8     202       22.8     24.1     24.7     28.7    18.l
8. IDA a S of Trial            8.6      7.2       9.0     10.5     10.7      0.0      4.2       1.8      1.8      2.0       2.2    8.4
8. IU   as S of Total         11.5      10.9     18.1     16.1     17.8     21.8      21.9     24.8     28.9     26.7      26.0    21.1
F. DO-to Emanrit  Jiain a
1. Lng-Tem OibtA .                     17.      190.1    182.6    212.2    198.0    22.4    MD.8    224.8        2.8    217.9   200.4
2. DlFCredtortr                9.7     20.8      27.7     2s.8     28.1     21.9      17.7     18.6     14.9     10.7       8.8     1.1
8. ShTerm DbS4rt               n.*      n.n       n        n        n.c      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0    O.C
4. LTin4r  :OD/Eape          u898    192.6    217.    206.8    240.4    217.9    248.1    247.9    289.4    288.8    226.2   201. 
3. VOD-t&lQpft
1. Lan#-Ter DabS/OP           87.4     48.2      80.8     82.1     57.9     88.8     80.6      48.9     47.4     47.6      46.9    48.4
2. IW Credit/WIP               2.8      8.8       7.4      6.8      7.7      6.0      4.0       4.0      8.1      2.8       1.8     0.1
S. Short-Term Debt/68          n.e      n.0       n.0      n.*      n.e      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.C
4. aTePST r   /0P             40.2     80.7      48.2    186.      68.5 a    9.4      84.8     02.9     80.8     49.8      48.7   44.C
4. iSat StervaIa.ta el
1. Puel.  Publily WS eO. LT   12.8    20.4     20.8      21.8     24.8     22.8     27.2      28.8     22.9     21.8     20.2   14.1
2. Private Mon-4mar. LT        6.2      6.4       7.8      8.0      7.81     7.1      8.9       2.9      2.8      8.4       8.7     8.4
8. Totol LT Gbt Service       18.6     2e.8      27.8     20.2     82.6e    29.8      81.0     26.8     28.8     24.7      28a.9    19.4
4. -v ispir erv.ha.    0.6              2.8       4.8      8.6      8.8      7.8      6.8       7.2      7.9      8.4      2.1      ia
S. Inoreat only an ST Debt     n.R      n.        n.n      n.-      n.e      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.
6. Totel  zLT4v*ST It.)       19.4     29.s      2.6      84.6     89.4     S7.7     89.8      s8.8     88.4     80.1      26.0   20.1
1. Interealt Brdn RatiL
1. Totl intert/8P              2.8      8.8      8.4       8.8      8.8      8.6      8.1       2.8      2.4      2.2      2.0    1.1
2. Total Interst/Eeorts B/     8.8      12.9     12.5     12.4     18.9     18.1      18.7     18.8     11.8      10.8      9.8     6.1
a/  Exporta inclue mor4handle, all ervice en vorkers remittence.



-  33  -                                                A     V
1WA - PALUC P3WIM. MlMG A1 Csr
Atal           Pr, la.
FM     Fl8 FFM "      1       Ff87
S. P'ublic FPiac (4 drt et On P)
Su'get (Centael -Xocrneet)
Currnt Rewoeu                                  98.1  59.0   Zl.7 t 2.8   23.7
Curreln Expnditus.                             0.1   21.8   93.1   2S.4   23.8
Current Budget BDlanc                           1.0    1.8   -0.8   -0.1   -0.1
D"e,lpaent Expenditure                          6.2    6.1    7.J    7.2    9.7
Total Expelture,                              28.2   27.6   80.6   30.6    8.4
Overal l Cas Deficit, wacl. Granto.             5.2   -4.6   -7.0   -8.0  -10.8
Itel. cnA. djuatuant
EIternal Grants                                 1.6    O.      1.7    1.1    2.4
O0.rllI C_1k Dieft. Jloi. Grea. a Adju.amt   4.8    4.9    -.38   4.6    4.1
Etrnal Borrwing. n"t                          1.4    0.2    1.2  -0."    0.7
DOmatic Financing, ne                         2.2    8.8    4.0    6.8    7.4
aOsmt Rtat. CB O..)
JuDe                                         June
II. Honey Vn Credit                    182   19w8   194   18    16    1967                  1968   1964   18    Ig6   197
la mllenw  of LDS at end penn
-on  Sunpply                        17    11945  ISM   14474  1815   184                 11.1   14.1    8.2   25.4    1.9
+Mn  . quei-lmuke                  21481 U   18 2_  7    gum   8s6931  882"               6.6   12.9   10.2   27.6    8.6
Toult Nt co_tic Credlt             244  27l8 209M4  816U   40778  481                     0.1   10.7   12.8  29.0    7.7
To 0vemant (et)                    988 8141    WOt   9984  1SM   171                  -18.5   11.0   10.1   as.7   11.8
To Official btitiea                 "9    1854   211    9897   D9 60                   85.6   14.0   18.4   16.4    4.1
To Privet Secter                  1487  186   184   1249  91604  28602                  7.1   10.2   18.6   17.8    8.4
Nat Foreign Amest                  -187    -,84      SO  -178    -M    48
Not Other Assets A Ubil I Stiea    -23    -2008   248  -1418  -42U8  -4911



- 34 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 2
Schedule D
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of 8ank oans and IDA Credit* as of March 3a. 198I
---US8 Million---
Amount (Less Cancel lations)
Loan or                                                                                 Undie-
Crodit No Year   Borrower Purpose                                bank  /      IDA       bursod
Forty three (48) Loans, of which six were cancelled, thirty-two
(82) Credits and two (2) Third Window Loans Fully Disbursed.     690.21        377.22
117?      1980   IDD        Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank          a9.oo                   5.27
1107      1981   Kenya    Fifth Education                                      46.06    20.00
199S      1981   Kenya    Fourth Agriculture                     25.60                   1.88
2069       1982   Kenya    Ferestry III                          21.50                  18.98
1287      1082   Kenys    Cotton Proe. & Morketing                             22.00   19.98
"8a       1982   Kenya    Integrated Rural Health &
Family Plannira                                 28.00    9.6e
188?      1983   Kenya    Notional Extension                                   15.68    6.82
2319       1988   Kenya    Secondary Towns                        7.00                   6.98
1898      1988   Kenya    Secondary Towns                                      22.06    11.42
i859      1984   Kenya    Klimbere Hydroelectric                 95.00                  29.22
*409       1084   Kenya    Second Highway Sector                 5.068                  49.21
F617      1984   Kenya.   Second Highway Sector                                40.00   89.44
1488      1984   Kenya    Geothermal Exploration                               24.50   11.58
1568      198S   Kenya    Water Enginsoring                                     6.06     2.98
2574      1985   Kenya    Third Tolecommunicatione               82.66                  80.85
1678      1086    Kenya    Sixth Education                                     87.50   88.86
1675      1986   Kenya    Petroleum Explor. Tech. Assist.                       6.00    6.57
1717      1986   Kenya    Agric. Sector AdJustment                             20.00    9.18
1718      1986   Kenya    Agric. Sector Management                             11.56     9.77
1738      1987   Kenya    KIE 2nd Small Scale Industry                          6.68     6.71
1758      1987   Kenya    Animal Health Services                               15.68    15.0
182i      1987   Kenya    Second Railway                                       27.95    27.95
1849      1988   Kenya    Agriculturo                                          19.60    19.60
Tot l                                951.81       718.27   384.20
of which has been repaid           529.75        11.46
421.9 EB     ne.s
Total now outstanding       11.74
Amount sold
of which has been repaid  11.74        00
TOTAL now hold by Bank and IDA                 421.66       701 8
TOTAL undisbursed                              14229    - 2411 9     84.20
* In addition, Kenya was one of the baneficiaries of 16 loans tota ling US82        mi  llion
which were extended for the development of common services (railways, ports,
telecowaunications, and finance for Industry), operated regionally for the three
partner states of the ?ormer East Afriecan Community (EAC).



- 35                               ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
KENYA
Schedule D
B. Statement of IFC Investment In Kenyn as of
March W9. 1988
Fiscal Year        Oblipor                       Type of Business         Amount In US$ Million
LOan      Equity    lots I
198?,15ff8,        Kenya Hotel Propertles        Hotels                6.2      O.?        5.9
and 1978
1970,1974,         Pan African Paper Mills       Pulp and Paper       22.2      8.a       28.5
1977,1979
and 1981
1972               Tourism Promotlon Services    Hotels                2.4      -1         2.4
1976               Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.     Textilea       s       8.      2.8        9.1
19?7               Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.    Capital Market        2.9       -         290
19890              Development Finance           Development Finance  6.1       1.3        6.4
Company of Kenya Ltd.
1981               Kenya Comercial Finance       Money A Capital Mkt 6.O         -         5.S
1982               Bamburl Portland              Cement & Construct.  4.4        -         4.4
Cement Co., Ltd.              Material
1982               Diamond Trust of Kenya        Money & Capital Mkt   -        9.8        9.8
Limited
1982               Industrial Promotion          Money A Capital Mkt   -        2.0        2.0
Services (Kenya) Ltd.
1988               Totra Pak Converters          Pulp A Paper Prod.   2.2    09.           2.5
Limited
1984               Leather Industries of         Tinning               2.1     09.         2.7
Kenya Limited
1984               Madbu Paper Intnattional      Pulp A Paper Prod.  87.1        2.0      39.1
Limited
1985               Equatorial Beach              Tourism               8.7       -         3.7
Properties
1986               Oil Crop Development Ltd.                           9.7       1.4      11.1
Total Gross Commitments                          197.4       18.2     125.6
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              78.9      650        83.9
Total Commitments now held by IFC                 28 6       13.2      41.7
Tot-I Undisbursed                                    .2       1.5       1.6
/ $51,395.



- 36 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT DATA SHEET
I.        Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the projects        10 months
(b) Project prepared by:                     Ministry of Finance
(c) First presentation to the Bank:           September, 1987
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:           January, 1988
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:      April 15, 1988
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:           July, 1988
II.      Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III.     Special Conditions
Conditions of Release of Second Tranche
Implementation  of  the   Industrial   Sector Adjustment  Program
satisfactory to the Association, including:
(i)   liberalization of  imports  in  category  B of Schedule
II., agreement on a timetable for liberalizing category
C of Schedule III and reduction in the number of tarihf
rates from 25 to 12;
(ii)    agreement on and  commencement  of implementation of an
action program for export promotion and implementation
of the Import Duty Compensation Scheme;
(iii)   decontrol of prices for  at  least 10 products from the
General Price Order and agreement on a timetable for
removal of remaining price controls not covered by the
Restrictive  Trade  Practices,   Monopolies  and  Price
Control Bill;
(iv)   agreement with the Association on, and commencement of,
implementation of an action program for restructuring
the development finance institutions and divestiture of
industrial public enterprises;
(v)   implementation of improved processes, to be agreed with
the   Association,   for  monitoring   the   remaining
industrial public enterprises; and



- 37 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
(vi)   establishment  of   the   Capital  Markets  Development
Authority and discontinuation of the Capital Issues
Committee's review of share issue prices for locally
owned firms.



ANNEX TX
-38                                        Pae Ie of 6
U3W~~~'O"                                                     P.O.& s3M9
Wm o  NA  iba                         or yW3O3)5NY
Mu. ~.~L.AMJSi/74          wqg5V                ..e.  .......            atM.
CONFIDENTIAL
Mr. B. Conable.              --
presidents
nt s t       BP  of IcStructioWaand
iSiH St=eto N.W.
aIbtm         D.C. Z0433,
U.S.
LETTROPF IMATRIAL POLICY
1.   XN'DUrC
1.   Ksnyts ecnmic performance in the coming years will depend on
.inancia stebiliation And delopments in the productive sectors,
nl dustry  The potentbl for Indutrial dwevlopwmnt
411 QPna oo atmnt 6 e3@0rt incentives 8 well as a more
usrnessus  cliate.  6Gnya has built a relatively large
1ar* lookhng iuswtrial base which Is on tls whole efficiesn but
still c8)fot caUete In the world mrket. The principal objective
far the future Is to elfiinate the anti-export bias anld adjust the
trinstrial sector so as to return it to a path of dynsic and
sustaIzd   grth.
II.  SAO
2. Imya's ecoomic performance was remarkable during the first decade
afte      nce.    P grew awually by 6.6S in teal terms due to
faourable wither, agricultural lnd expansion and establishment of
1 portsubstituting indtrie. Rapid growth of the anufacturing
sector (S11 p.a.) wa stimulated by protection, a liberal foreign
SAvestawnt pol2cy, active Govet participation in   striaI
vetures and contznued ccess to East Afrmca C    ty markets.
Between the two oil boom  (197480), eco ic grh deelerated to
about 4.5% per a3ma and Ienyms thu   joyed  itt  growth on a per
capita basis. This slowdown in        arose becae of several
raso"s, notably the deterioration in the terms of trado and
structural problems in agriculture and industry. In Industry, the
incetives favoured production for the domstic market more tha  for
eorts, resulting in declining opportmities fgr import substitution
and in a strong mnti-exort bias.
3.   In the eorly eighties, severe internal and external Imbalances
developed end stabilization became necessary. In 1981, the budget
deficit reched 9.S1 of GOP, the current account deficit wer 11$
of GDP, and he Inflation rate picked up to over 20t. The Govenment
CONFIDENTIAL



' tJA r li Lf            ANNMEX IX          o *
- 39 -                  Page 2 of 6
ma. Comid4erObl pwogress in ftessiinq  th9se ibalacsO and by
19*4'both budet and curret account dOficits and the Inflation
rote were ier control. Econad4 grwth, oan the other hand, did not
recover sufficiently to match the population gowth. DUriAg the swe
perid, the Gove=nment also began impltenting a structural adjusmnt
prograv  which was short ived primarily because of severe drought
ard unfacourable tems of trade. In more recent years, the balance
of payments Ed the budgetary ~situations have again been sunr severe
pes9sure because of sharp deterioration !n Kenya's tome of trade,
ncreasingly high debt senrice payments and the byrde on thA hIw9st
consecutive good harvest years.
4.   The Government of Kenya has embarkod on a riscal wid moutary policy
Prograue in order to restore fiscal stability in the short-tem and
has launched structural adjustment refo=ns in its productive sectors
in order to increa,e and sustain economic grwth  aer the medim-teim.
Further to the ongoing adjustment efforts in the agricultural sector,
the Goverrmnt of Kenya bas began implementing a prograue of refom in
the    strsial sector for which it seeks sujport from ID. While
Kenva  maijtit,i4"        r,                  W ;.,   da L4; uz voal
munipA"r .9W',1 -ftt, 14.*o2$*9 OnO 44 #6"  Y&A ' V*&rniiWJiv amU Is cuflty
relatively efftc!cnt ansi operat.uls at nearly full capacity, it faces
two maior difficultles: lw level of new investment (and hence low
jV:1d !T1tiofl) end: pro? caport pw; ,e.  hICe lOW lvl of IAV6StWnt
has oca~red~ because the prospicts for efficlent import substitution
are nearly ewated an the export incentives in place are not adequate.
S.   me Govornmentts ob$ectives in the irdustrial sector are (i) to
accelerate growth in order to provi6e pro4uctiv  enlont opportunities
for a lbour fore Ahich is expected to nearly double botwwen now and the
turn of the century; and (ii) to iprove export performnce so as to
Mhcrease efficiency nd foreign exchange earnings. The diversification
of sources of foreign "ubne earnings is an ivmrtent Gmvenmmnt policy
obj'ctfre since it will buffer tern of trade volatility.
6..  The Coormunt styh?vgy in this area.is well spelt out in Sessional
Paper No. 1 of 1986 on !conomfei naement for Renewd Growth -md in
the Policy Framework Paper for tMeperlod 193F.0. SasIcallyo the to
docuuents assign the pritTvat sector the dominant role in revitalizing
the econofy, and   Zs h    prlority for agricuture nd rural non-farm
actict,  eu-hahi   the need for restructuring idustry to improve
its export copetiivess. These policy docwents also assert that
market-based incentives wIll be relied on rather than direct Government
controls.
IT.         F     PoLIc 
R,   The ob~rectives andt strateg  for the industrial sector described abo
will be pursued through the following major policy actions which are
d:etailed in the attat!Fmet to this letter .
- greater incentives for pronotion efficient investment by
streamlining administrative procedures, reviewing corporate
taxation with the yiew to reducing marginal effective tax
rates and elimination of domestic price controls with the
oxception of few essential iteow



ANNEX IX
40 -                         Page 3 of 6
-   export promotion to xpand ad diversify lCnya'S manufactured
exports so as to reduce relfance on agrcultural exports,
namly, coffee and teat
increase the outward orientation and efficiency of the
industrial sector by making protection trnusparent, even
across the sector and lower;
-  broad" t.he rsae of financial lnstnznents available for
private sector anvestment and improve the capital market;
- maintain external balance and competItiveness by prudent
ranagmnt of the exchange rate ; and
e   lit public sector participation in the economy through at
progrwme of restructuring DFIs and thefr portfolios,
Trade Rei
8.   Policy changes in this area will concentrate on Improving the
efficiency of the sector as well as encouraing exports.
9.   _nrti4censing.  The Government is currently reviewing the licensing
sysem5ith aView to lfberaliz4ig iMports. The Government has already
reorganized the present four iMport schedules into three which will be
itplemented soon. Sched4le r consists of raw materials, interldiete
ard caital goods (similar to the present schedule IA but with a fewer
items); Schadule II consists of cominodities requiring   isterial apr1
(similar to IA); and Schedule IM contain all remainins items. Schedule
III is diided Into three categories : IUIA containg high priority items
insufficiently available in domestic market; IIIB consistig of items
competing with domestic production; andc ITIC consisting of ly  gds,
ites restrictect for public health and security reasons and oter i
competing with domestic prodiction.
10. The Government will, from June 1988, issue licenses for items in
Schedule$ L and I1 and categoryA of schedule III expeditiously and without
restrictions. These items account for about 60t of all items and 88% of
total  Vport value (1986). The Govrnment is comnitted to umdertako a
study to examins the IMtpact oni domestic industries of unrestrictive
licensing for categories 1113 and TIIC. The study will laud to the
formulation of an action programn which will provide domstic industries
equivalent protection by tariffs only. Anti-dtUpVg legislation will also
be reviewed for adequacy. Uhrestrictive licensin   or items in category
I13, wich will account for at least 11% of all items and 61 of import
value will be implemented in June 1989. Again unrestrictive licensing for
items in category IJIC (with the excwption of a few items for reasons of
public security and health) will be introduced gradually in June 1990 and
June 1991. In the event that any company is faced with restructuring or
liquidetion, appropriate rescue programnes will be prepared and estimates
of the adjustment assistance that will be required for training and
re-employment of the labour force will be mde and submitted to the WPorld
Bank for assistance.
11.  Tariffs. As stated in the Sessional Paper, the Government is comitted
to IWring and evening out effective protection which at present encourages
inefficient activities and allows hfgh profitability at the expense of
conm,ers. While lowering protection is the ultimate objective, the
major reforms will be implemented during th:e second and third phase of
the adjustment progranne.  However, the Goverment will in June 1988
c()v! :l rirN'TI A 1.



-41 -                      ANNFX IX
ad June 1989 Wi) rduce the nvtmir of tariff rates frT# 3  0il; C10
rationalie tariffs such that siii1ar goody bear similar tarifFs&  and
Cii) reduce the weighted awrage tariff of category IIIA fr    its
psSent level of 53t to aromd 451. Tariff adjut;.s^.rt of catcgories
111 md IIIC will uccur during the second and third phases cf the
prograue w!Lh the objective of lowering and evening out protection.
1Z.  Exrs. The Goverrment recognizes that. thc cUrrent Export
cwipiiiition Schme (ECS) has had only a limited iTnpact on increasing
exports and i8 administratively inefficient.  A refo=m of the BCS is,
thereforT, necessary to ensure that exporters at leist have access to
duty and tax free inputs. The Goernernt will therefore simplify and
streamline the ECS to make export compensation more readily available
to manufacturers.  By Junoe 1989, the  oenment will announce and
ulemet a simple Import Duty Co*Tensatfon Scheme to replace ECS
with a wider coverage than is currently the case and with three rates
reflecting duties actually paid. The new scheme will be speedily
aftlnistered so as to guarantee reimbursenent witUin one month of
exporting. The Government will issue by June ;988 guidelines and
procedures for anmufcturing inbond (M) that assure access to
foreign exchange within oeweekc of application. The performame
of ?IB wl be revri:ewed, and improved incentives will be implemented
by June 1989. The Governwent will also design, and start iplementing
bu June 1989, a comprehensive medium-term export prootion programe
that includes financing, insurance and information support from a
* oint public/private export promotion agency to potential exporters.
urthenwroe, the Government Is cominitted to establishEig an export
processing zone (EP0 with financial assistance from donors. If such
assistance is forthcoming, actual construction of the EPZ will begin
no later than June 1989.
.3.  Price Control. The need to dismantle the price control system has
long been recognized by the Govenmnt and so=e progregs has already
been nade. The pace of price decontrol will be czihenced wnder the
ndutrial sector progrnmo. As a first step, the Government will
decontrol prices of 10 prodbcts from the present list of 40 under
the General Price Order byJuo 1988 and a furthler 10 by  ecember 1988.
Moreover, the Government WidT1enWi-vour to aecontrol prIces on
addftioal products. particular1y those which under the programe would
face increased competition. Purthermore, the Government WIl move an
auIviTnt to the Restrictive Trade Practices, ronopolies and Price
COntrol Bill which is now before Parliament, and will be enacted by
December 1988, to Ci) redefinc monopoly us representing a market share
of 504; and (ii) limit powers of the Price Controller to only item
prodced undbr monopoly or traded under restrictive conditions as
dieffned n thv Bill. All controlled items which will consequently not
fall under the new Act will be graduslly decontrolled during the
second phase of the industrial adjustment operation.  Finally,
applications for price revisions of items that will continue to be
p race controlled and conform fwitb the Determinarion of Costs Order will
be pocesedwithin 90 days.
Exchanpe Rate
14.  To Support the import liberalization programe (removal of quantitative
restrictions and: moderation of tariff levels) and further enhance
ancufacturing exports* the Governwent will continue its pnrdent
management of the exchange rate, i.e. appropriate adjustment of the
real exchange rate.
. ...... . I  I* *I  5/
{'{5N'f'tl51~~~~ltt l, t~



-42 -   (J NF[D, EN'rf IN A                   I X
Page 5 of 6
15.  T4.1 e         avourto  eliUose  the inwsb3nt clint*, the Go svnnt
tbnds to elaimte the idhiStrative bottleecks that invstors
fae IA establishg businesses In  enya, reduce the rlatiely high
effective rates of corporate t ion  and aend the  orgn   estent
Protection Act (FIPA) and other restrIctions on activties of non.
vesident comies. More specifically, the GovaoeInt will streamdine
the inwsbtt approval procedres by establishi(j by Jutn  1988 a
stop office in the r.estmnt Promtfon Center (  ) Which will be
oquately staffed to milnize  qays in process  g  stUnt
epplcations.  IPC will, by Jme 1988, alec prepare and "iS   iwestut
guldelfizis dtailing policies and procede aecting imestors.
16.  T  Barornt will stt' effectivo rates of corporate taxation by
April 1988 wi a view to redUclj the rates by Jtme l988. The
Goverrnt will also alol  coes to treat realized exchn0 losses
on foteVia curnc lowa Uwe to purchase fied assets as  ddIctble
"-ans0 for tax purposes by Jue 18.  PA will also be wnded by
Jtme 1988 so as to ease repatriation of capitatl gai  by foreig  fix=
opmting f1 Kenya. The criteria for iuance a  renewal of work
S ta .dll be =& mor transparent by Jme 1988. rt should be
ihted that the Govemnent his already cmpleted muh of the
work in this area and is ready to move soon.
Iitr.a  ulic EntepOrises
17.  TM  Govermnt' s intentins in 4iis area are, as stted in the Sessional
Papr, ta impme t'he effic1er y of theso enterprises by way of
restTucturing, dlvestiture an  Improvement iA mmitori5t and suerisiou.
The Covenmint has: alre&4 r 4luested a Project Preparation Pac ity fro
the Bak to finance a stu43f the &mlopmt finance isitut
OM) a  their portfolios. espetially the ttile, steel and wotor
vd1icles subs sitors. The riovewmnt wil use the study to prepare, by
Docu*er 1988, an action pogzirm  for restructurig the DPIs and
restructuring asr wll as dwestiture of their portfolio. This actio
program  will be discussed amd aged wit the sank so that %mnldmntA*
tiba can cowwuIv by, June i . For the enterprises to be retsIned in
Th public sector, the Goerment i11 prepwre awd implent by December
1988 moitormg ard supervisory vstenr that wfil  rrove the performac
of tlhsw ontprpses.
* ~~a1jotor vd  i
18.  AF set out in its Policy Framwork Papor, the Govement intends to
proie xmore flexible ffTancial sector policies and stivathen h
WAvr mn& capital markets. Thus, under the industrial adjustant
progranw the Gvrrnmnt wifl (4) operationslize the existing discount
racuIity at the Central Bank to pemit open market operations and a
secoutary. waret by Jue 1988; (Cii d1scamtiwe the review hy the
Capftal ;F  Couimittie ot share issue prices for lccal1y-owed firms
by .7tme 1$89: am. (Sii) crta1bsh a Cay!La1 Markets Development Authority
wh appropriate responsLbilfties by June 1989. A flexible and stro
capital market wil1 suport the divest iture of indstrial
a* . *.t a * 06/



-43                       ANNEX IX
Page 6 of 6
V. Me-MRS OP Z'WLRWALO
J9   o 'ti p;;ixRSev  idMial adjustent ptogra  to succeed, a
Rionitorg   oiv                                          t has to bh put i place  The  en t trefore
intends to  cstblssh a  inter it.rXl coette coSosd of
reposentatiws froai coneroed ministries as wll as the Centraa Bank
to closely muitor the Lrplmentation of this progruume. The Ae=-
'nt will submit a progrss poret to the World        every six mn3ts.
The Gove nt is flly  bmitdted to lmplomntH48  211 the Option
iascussed abov   d  in the tim  specified and wil deal with umforeseen
events using appropriate market'-orented policy InstrwLents rather than
direct Goernmt control.
Yours sincerely,
HO.  PPMP.GExS
CONFIDENTIAL
-r-. -



inlfA - 11m3131M. IStIl .RAISTS CR1 (IMIc)
swam  OF MMN111001111  M                .
OBJECTIME                     TATUS A   RECET ACTION                      ACTMIO PROGRAM                    nCITINn   FOR
I. TRADE REORM
(I)    Liensing
(a)  1Cri                      Progress In  refoum  program under         - Roraol  Schdlse  into  I, I,
iralItntion                     SAL I & II was arrstd  de, to                 SWd III  Wd *nnouces
Increase Wh  otward orienta-  macroeco mle mbalane.  Proram                   Unrestricted  licweing  In I, It   /688           erd    Presstaloz
tion  *nd  efficieny  of theb   mploeontetion was rosu_W through             and III (category A).                           ISAC I
Industrial  seteor by making   tariff reduction Is the 1964, 1986
protection trnFavrnt, evesn   ad 1967 budgets.   no number of              - Frt ph        Of  study  to  xamine  0/8          Board    Preoeatation
acreO  the sector and ler,   items In  Schetdule IA  (automatic               the   pact  on dbm  tie lndutelos                ISAC I
license) wore  increased.  During            of  unrestrictivo   licenoing  for
1983-1986 quots were binding only             ch dule III  categories  9  and C
for Schedule  2B  (most ret*rec-             and  foroulate  an  action progrm
tIe).    In  1987  quotas  beame             which  will  (a)  provide domestic
binding to ell  schedulox due to a           industries  equlivalnt  protectlon
foreoin exchange hortage.                    by  tarlffs  only;  and  (b) draft
appropriate           anti-dumping
legislatlon. Tbh  scond  phase of
the  study   will  prepare  action
programs    for      restreuctring
compnies severely affected by
lIberaliation.
-  Izplemet  unrestricted  liaensing   089         Snd. Tr. ISAC I
for   ite.m   In  schedule   II,
category B.
-  Implemet  unrestricted  lleonsing   6/90)        ISAC II
for  schedule   III,   category  C  6/91)
during the ISAC I period.
(11) Tariffs ancd Taxos
Rationalize k       simplity   tariff
structure:
- Rationalize tariffs oueh that    )
similar  oods ber similar        )
tariffs.                         )   6/8        Board   Pr s_ntatlon  I t
- Reduce nmber of tariff rates          and         ISAC I                
from 26 to 12.                       t/Se       Snd. Tr. ISAC I
- Revie  specitfic dutios with the  3
objective of converting them  into?
ad valoro duties.



O8JECTISES                    STATUS AND RECENT ACTION                      ACTION PROGRAM                      TIMING        COMDMON FOR
(b)  Export Promotion                 Export   compensation   scheme  I    - Dsign a simple Import duty coap.nsutlon   9/88             Snd. Tr. ISAC I
Expand ad  dirsify Kenya's   ineffective  and  administratively           scheme  to   replace   the  export  co_-
manufactured  exports  to re-   burdensome.       lSplementatlon  of      pensation scheme with wider coverage and
ducs relianco  on  coffee and   manufacturing-in-bond   has   been        three  rates  reflecting  duty  actually
tea.                             started  and   will  be  expanded.       paid.
Green channel procedures to expe-
dite  adeiniatatlve  processing of   - Implement the  Import  duty compensation   8/89           Snd. Tr. ISAC I
export  production  has  not  been      echoe   with   Improved  administration
Implemented. Kenya External Trade       guaranteeing  reimbursent  within  one
Authority rmains wk,                    month.
- Issue  guidelines   and  procedures  for   888          Becird    Preentation
manufacturing-in-bond    that   as*ures                 SAC I
acces to foreign exchange within one
week of application.
- Review  and   implement  incentives  for   0/89         Sod. Tr. ISAC I
manufacturing-in-bond with a view to
making them more competitive.
- Design and coemence  implemonttion of a   J8/9          Sad. Tr. ISAC I
comprehensive export promotion program
that Includes  financing,  insuranc  and
Improved  informtion   support  froem  a
joint   public/prwiate   sector   export
proeotion agency.
- Prpare feasbility  study and Implement  6/89            Sad. Tr. IC I
an export proess ing sone subject to
donor support.
Ia 
0



OWJECTInES                   STATUS AND RECENT ACTION                     ACTION PROGRAM                    TIMNG          CONDmON FOR
(c) Price Controls                   Price  controls  in Konya include   - Removo pric, controls  on IN product. in  6,86          Board    Pree.ntetton
mks the Knyon economy sore   (a) di rct  controls  on about 11          tho Oeneral Order of the Price Control                 ISAC I
re_ponsive  to  m_rkbt forces   essential consumer  Items; and (b)      Act.
to  increas   investmnt  nd   controls on ex-factory  prigce  of
efficiency.                     44  manutfctured  products.   The   - Remove  price   controls  on  at  least   12/61          Sod. Tr. ISAC I
Govornmnt, In  recognition of the      another 1W  product.
disincentivo   effcts   of  price
controls, has prepared logiolstleo    - Oradually   decontrol   piles   of  all  61/9         ISAC SS
to creete      Dpartment  of Price     remtaing items  not  falling  under th    and
and Monopoly  Control  to monitor    mow   Retrictive,   Trade   Practices,    /1)
*ction   in  rtisraint of trade.    Monopolte and Price Control Bill.
The  mw  bill   howevor,  retains
broad poweir  for the  Price Con-   - Move  amedmnt  of  Reetrictive,  Trade   8/88           Board    Presentation
troller and need to be limited to    Practlces  Monopolies, and Price Control                 ISAC I
Item    produced   under monopoly      Bill to (I)  redefine monopoly such that
conditions  and  for a  fow basic    It rflocts morket  power ond (1i) lilit
comodities.    Price    of  some       poers  of Price  Controller to  tems
Items, Including  meat, haov  ben      produced  under  onopoly  conditions or
decontroll d.   overrment has also     traded under restrictive conditions, as
propmosd a revision of the formlal     defined in the bill.
for price deter lnation from being
cost-based to one  based on imort   - Appitcations for perce revision of items   6/C8         Board    Presentation
parity. The Price Control Deport-      that will  continue  to  be  controll d                ISACI
sent's manpowr has ben Increaed        under the  now  bil l,  and  that conform
to speed the  prooaing of appil-    with  the   cost  determination  order,                                          o
cottons.                               should be proce_ed within 90 days.
Ni
01



- 47 -                  AflNEXX
ii                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.tge 4 of 7
I
_1
NW
E     t
I   



OBIECTIVES                  STATUS AND RECENT ACTION                    ACTION PiORM                      TIIN0         CONDTION FOR
IlK. DWESTMENT   ETwIVS
(s)  Taxation                       Effetlve corporate  tax rates ar   - oprove  Incentives  for  investmet by  6/18           Board   Prsntlon
IbU E7nyon effective  cor-  genrnlly higher in  Ktnya then in         reducing  arginal effective company tax               ISAC I
porate taxes competitive with   many otor developing  countries       rate and allowing  *xchango  losse  as
other countries  to encourg    b  causo of  limited tax deductions    tax deductions on foreign currency loans
Investment.                    and allowances,                        usd to purchase fixed  ssets.
(b)  Investment                     Investment is hampered by compit-  - Stramline  lnvestOent approval  proce-  6/s6           Board   Presentation
proote  nvteont.               cated   approval   procedures  and    duree by establishing  one-stop Invest-                ISAC I
foreign  lnvestmt  suffers from    ment center at the  IPC  whicb will be
restricted   access  to donse tc      adequately staffed to ensure expeditiou
credit and delayed transfer of    procesi t   of applications.
capital gain on Sale.   Recent
changes  In the Exchange Control   - loss   Investment guide llns.               6(8        board   Presentation
Act hove eased  somwht the ree-                                                             ISAC I
trictlone on domestlc borrowing
Gad the one-stop  Invtestor center  - Amend Foreign  Invstment Protection Act  S/68         Board   Presentation
has boen #aett<d.                     to ease  transfers  of capital gains on               ISAC I
sale of equity.
- Establish clear criterio  for rejection   6/66       Board   Pntation
to make work permit policy transparent.              ISAC K                   p
bo 



OBJECTIVES                  STATUS AND RECENT ACtION                    ACTION PROORAM                    TIMIN        CODITION FOR
IV. PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
Promote private   ector as the   The Ooverrnent  Is dlreotly  and  - Bad  on a study of the dewvlopmnt  12/88                    Sod. Tr. ISAC I
ngino of  industrial growth  by   indirectly  through  devlopmnrt    financ   institution   (DFI.)  and their
confining  public enterprises to   banks, involved  tn  6 Industril        portfolios   especially  the  textile,
essentil Governmnnt servies and   ent rprises, many of *hich   r           motor  vehicles  and steel subuectorc,
*tr tOnsc Inv tant.                 *oxp elncing  financial  difficul-    prepre   an   action    proram   for
tog    ties.   Although  the Government's    restruCturing  the   DFI      * and
recent inveetmante have been mint-    divetwiture/retructuring   of   their
Mel, It he  mede halting progroes    portfolios.
In divetiture (despite a high
profIl, report) end Improved  ffI-   -Agr  with IDA on on action program for  O899          Snd. Tr. ISAC I
clency.  Government recently an-    the  FI  and divestitur/restructuring
nounced Its Intent to Sol s *horn     of  industrial public enterprises  and
In the two Governmnt-owned banks.    cemence Implementntlon.
and how completed the dliveslture
of KIENTCO and Uplonds Bcon.        - Tprovw  perormnc  monitoring systom   12188           Sad. Tr. ISAC I
for enterprises to be retained In the
public *ector.
x
0
'-S



OBJECTrIVES                 STATUS AND RECENT ACTION                    ACTION P_Mi                       TING         CONDTION FOR
V. iNANCIAL SECTOR AND CAPITAL MARKETS
Develop  alternative  intrumente  Goernmnt bes stopped up Its us*  - Establish  Capital MI rkote Deolopment  0/19               Snd. Trnche IAC I
for managn domestic money supply  of  tendering T-BiIl  and intro-    Authority with  appropriate  Incentives
nd foreIgn resrve.  Broaden the  duced  longer  maturitie.    An    and Invetor protection repletion.
rene of  financial  instrumont4   Interanietrinl  Committee   has
avalFolabo  for  pervate   sector  developed trms of  reterenetor  - Discontinue  Capital   Issues  Comittee  0/82              Snd. Treneh  ISAC I
Investment,                         the Capital Markeot  Development    re-;*e of pricino of  shore  isoue  of
Authority,                            domesticl ly owned cowpanlos.
- Establish and operate dlcount feailty  0/US         Board   Presentation
In the Central Bank.                                 ISAC I
maesll/kneufl/bto/fob. IS/atti I
19-MAT-SB
&01
Io X



51 -
ANNE XI
SMIm  uO BE UDIRTAI   MU    ISTC I
T*MIN
DESCRIPTION                     REA            RESPONSIBILITY   8EINNINO COWPLETION
1. First  phase   of   study  to   Trede            Ministries  of Fin-      eSss         8/9J
examine th   impact on d  e-                    *nce and Planning
tlc Industries of unrestrict-
tv- licensing for schodules
III *and IIIC and forulate
*n action program which will
(a) provide doestic indus-
trie equivalent protection
by tariffs only; *nd (b)
draft appropriate anti-dump-
ing legislation.  The second
phase  of   the   study  will
prepare action program for
restructurlag or liquidattag
compnies severely affected
by liberalization.
2. Study  to  design  en  Import   Trade            Mtilntry of Finance       4/88        9/88
Duty Compensation Scheme and
Improve Its implementation.
S. Study to as s   the Impact of   Prices           Ministry of Fitance      6/88         12/88
decontrolling prices rmmain-
lng controlled after January
19089.
4.  Study to design a coeprehens-   Trade           Ministry of Finance      6/88         12/88
ive mdium term export promo-
tion program that Includes
financing, insurance, an EPZ
and    improved   information
support    from    a    joint
private/public sector export
promotion ag*ney.
S. Study  to  (t)   xamine  tho   Taxation          Ministry of Finance       2/88        4/88
marginal effective tax rate
and design a reduction; (tt)
desipn a tax treatmnt for
exchange losse on fortein
curreney  loans;   and  (III)
estimate the revenue effect
of both.    Additionally, the
study woil also present a
cros country analysis of tax
incentives for capital market
development.
8. Study  of  DFI a  and  their   Industrial        Ministry of Finance       4/88        12/88
portfolioo,   especially  the   Publie
motorvehicle,   textile   and   Enterprise
steel subsectors, to prp re
an  action   plan  for their
restructuring, rehabilitation
or divestiture.
7. Study to  design an tmpleme-   Capital           Ministry of Finance      0/88         12/89
tetion   program,   includina   Markot
legislation, for the Capital
l rketn   Development  Autho-
rity.
The  total   cost   of  these
studies Is expected to be
about US8I million.
massll/kenSSl/sace/presreport/annexil
1O-MAY-88



S  U  D A  N                  . 
SUDAN                  )'xtn                                                       K E N Y A
.X.                       ~~~I                  N .'-
. SIt                          /  *                         N       E  T  H   IO            P IA
TURKAN6fA                                                                                           MANDERA
\ ~~~~~Elylc *S v  6   ,
Gh    ATN                                   D A l 4-XE   A I  E   MARSAD  '                            e 
k                                                II~~w
L~~~~~~~~~ L E 
1';N   . ..
"--.    EAST    E  R NA                                E    R  NJ
SIAYA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~    OAI
fFsAIS vv\44,   NAROA .              O           edNAKURU                                                            '\
kF.8 O4   rL    . r5A
_I_aR0 0 j h \4                                                                                ,  GACe
I ~~~~~~~I                     l
NYANZA RQVLNIt  d2                                                    K                 T    R|ER
KAJIYO  DO        / RYc                           |    A         T    LAWSrF 
KYna.A ,nav  u                    1A F RI C A    I-;                                                                       w>s
ISIIVEIVASA  I*Th UA*XA SKI                                              I ,an,I CSI
r"<v   FIROsI  ;   Ken|         \            TAITA9?                 g <         t  ne~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.1lonl wirorrs
VHS? ALLaEY  .    rI , 
,.   ^AS I: . r                                                         sJ                     )MMES              rCfKtM
,- /  |   \<  KWA     IWASA        -trh    k lIS
XIL0 iRSO,  ,  40rA  BO  120   100                                                                       - /T
ACVVVCAYIIPVD..AVVEIMm. -CVCV.  SlAS
aC.IIa,CIV.IVIVIS-,ACV-CA  Z            0                                                                         --* r1>--.Inet0 l bwsdS3y
_3,d_.                                           W._.              f i- D.lSCt tbISndIVy          '      S



