Report No. PID7029
Project Name                     Mauritania-Nutrition, Food Security and ...
Social Mobilization, "Taghdhia" Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Health, Nutrition, Population
Project ID                       MRPE55003
Borrower                         Government of Mauritania
Implementing Agency              Secretariat d'Etat a la Condition feminine
B.P. 6017
Nouakchott, Mauritania
Tel:    222-2-580-18
Fax:    222-2-571-56
Date PID Prepared                November 11, 1998
Appraisal                        October 11, 1998
Planned Board Date               December 4th, 1998
Background
A large segment of the population of Mauritania has low nutritional
status. The average diet is monotonous, insufficient in energy, and poor in
essential nutrients. Specific deficiencies including iron, iodine, vitamin A
and C are usually associated with such diets, resulting in clinical deficiency
diseases affecting primarily children and women. In addition to chronic food
shortages, there are large regional disparities in Mauritania and marked
seasonal fluctuations in food availability. During certain years, this
instability inflicts severe food restrictions to some groups of the
population.   Food aid has contributed an average of 5 % to 20 % of grain
imports to compensate for poor harvests (1996 and 1997) and severe food
deficits among low-income groups.
High prevalence of growth retardation is common among children,
indicating moderate to severe chronic malnutrition. A study conducted in 1991
in four regions of the country (Assaba, Gorgol, Tagant and Nouakchott) showed
that almost half (49 %) of the children suffered from some degree of protein-
energy malnutrition. In spite of the availability of fish along the coast and
the relatively high consumption of meat, poor absorption of iron combined with
parasitic infestation (e.g. malaria) is causing widespread anemia, a
debilitating condition affecting primarily women. Iodine deficiency which
affects more than 30% of the population in certain regions is known to impair
the learning ability of children and reproductive functions in women. Severe
vitamin A (retinol) deficiency is the leading cause of blindness among
children, and night blindness occurs at the end of the dry season among
children and pregnant women. The prevalence of blindness among children was
estimated at more than 1% suggesting a significant prevalence of vitamin A
deficiency and very low levels of beta-carotene consumption.
Presently the elaboration of a national nutrition strategy is the
responsibility of the National Committee on Nutrition (CNN), a committee
within the Ministry for Planning (Direction des Resources Humaines, DRH). The



Government needs a stronger concerted national nutrition policy, a set of
clear priorities and firm delegation of institutional responsibilities for the
implementation of an agreed action plan. On the basis of the pilot nutrition
program "Nutricom" and other on-going activities, the GOM will test the
effectiveness of strategies to reduce the prevalence of nutritional deficiency
disorders and contribute to the design of a better national nutrition
strategy.
Objectives
The proposed project is the expansion of the successful pilot component
"Femmes et Developpement" of the Projet Sante Developpement (PSD). The
project objective is to test two different prototypes of programs to reduce in
a measurable way child malnutrition in Mauritania. In accordance with the
objectives of a Learning and Innovation loan (LIL), the prototypes are
designed to be cost-effective and suitable for subsequent up-scaling to the
national level. The development objective is to improve the nutritional
status of mothers and children and the development of children under three
years of age. The project will promote best practice approaches of community-
based income-generating and nutrition activities in Mauritania which have been
implemented successfully under similar projects in Benin and Senegal, while
developing new interventions to address micronutrient deficiencies among
children and pregnant and lactating women. The project will mobilize NGOs and
civil society at large to provide support for women cooperatives. It also aims
at achieving tangible and sustainable results in combating malnutrition by
improving women's income and their technical level and capacity to address
malnutrition at household and community levels.
Description
The project supports the government's program to enhance the capacity of
families and communities to take care of preschool age children (0 to 3 years)
through the provision of knowledge about child growth and development,
parenting, nutrition and health care, and income generating activities for
women, implemented at the grassroots level. Women cooperatives will be the
principal partners of the Government in this project to reduce malnutrition.
There are presently 1,200 such cooperatives in the country, with over 74,000
women registered, mostly in the rural sector. The major components include
two prototypes: (i) Rural nutrition intervention, social mobilization (rural
radio) and microprojects; (ii) Peri-urban social mobilization for nutrition,
as well as a component on capacity building of both Government and NGOs for
nutrition-specific interventions (e.g. growth monitoring, micronutrients).
Financing
In conformity with the Learning and Innovative Loans guidelines, the
total project amount would be less than $5.0 million equivalent, financed by
IDA.
Implementation
The Secretariat d'Etat a la Condition feminine (SECF) will be the executing
agency for this project. A Project management Unit ( Unite de gestion de
Projet or UGP) will be created. SECF directorates (Antennes regionales du
SECF) in target districts (wilayas) will be involved as appropriate, as well
as all SECF's partenaires au developpement. The Directorate for Health
Promotion (Direction de la Promotion Sanitaire) of the Ministry of Health and
Social Affairs (MOHSA) will be a major partner to implement decentralized
- 2-



nutrition activities.
The management of the project will rely upon a Project Management Unit
(PMU) assisted by SECF Directorates (Direction des cooperatives de
l'Evaluation, Direction de la planification, Direction de l'Evaluation et de
la coordination). The PMU will manage program implementation with the support
of SECF district offices in the targeted wilayas. Key positions for
successful program implementation were filled before negotiations. SECF will
also be supported with equipment, computers, and technical assistance.
Moreover, by pursuing the decentralization of decision-making, district staff
will become increasingly involved in program execution. Similarly, NGOs,
which have already participated in activities in this field, will increase
their role in the execution of the program and will be entrusted with the
management of specific components.
Sustainability
The present credit will finance the pilot phase of a what could be
expanded as long-term national program to eradicate child malnutrition. The
following features are adopted in the project design to promote
sustainability: (a) social mobilization through networks of women led by the
SECF (b) demand-driven, community-based approach in defining activities which
could reduce poverty and child malnutrition, (c) capacity building at the
district level in planning and monitoring of community child care; (d)
building of grassroots institutions (cooperatives and savings groups) around
the parents' groups who would receive the parental nutrition education; and
(e) requirements for counterpart community contributions, thus promoting
community ownership of the programs. The core of the project activities is
the promotion of good child nutrition and care behaviors and the
identification of additional resources for assisting families to maintain such
behaviors. A substantial part of the project is devoted to capacity building
at grass-root levels, training and development communications to promote child
growth and nutrition, and the strengthening of grassroots institutions (such
as women cooperatives, GIE and NGOs) which are expected to continue after the
pilot project investment period. The project is sustainable from the fiscal
point of view. Communities will also contribute counterpart funding during
the operational period of the project.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Major lessons learned from previous projects in Mauritania deal with
project ownership, the Project Implementation Manual preparation, NGOs,
decentralization, and monitoring and evaluation. The participation of key
stakeholders, particularly beneficiaries, increases project ownership and
success and chances of sustainability, so this project was prepared in a
participatory manner with client consultation workshops and participatory
rural assessments.
So that ample attention is given to the Project Implementation Manual, a
draft Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to IDA, was reviewed during
negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
-3-



Projects need built-in monitoring and evaluation systems to assess and
respond to the views of critical stakeholders. For this, a monitoring and
evaluation system has been designed. The assessments of child nutrition,
health and growth, the reduction in micronutrient deficiencies such as iron
deficiency anemia, in the participating villages, will be used as key
indicators of success. The National Statistical Office (Office national de la
Statistique or O.N.S.) will conduct a base-line survey in participating
villages and a final evaluation at the end of the three-year implementation
period. An additional survey will be conducted one year after project
completion.
The project will be evaluated based on the following indicators: (1)
reduced prevalence of underweight children aged 6 months to two years, by one-
third of the 1998/1999 baseline levels in the targeted pilot project villages;
(2) reduced prevalence of 30t of main micronutrient deficiencies (iron, iodine
and Vitamin A) as assessed by medical examination and biological tests (
hemoglobin, hematocrit, urinary excretion of iodine) in intervention villages;
(3) good performances of at least 20 microprojects or one third of the
microprojects funded in each of the three target regions (wilayas) and two
suburban districts; (4) training of at least ten competent "female
technicians" providing satisfactory services in cooperative microprojects and
nutrition interventions in each targeted districts. If the above criteria are
not met, extension at national level under the present format will not be
sought. If most or all components are not successful, other techniques will be
sought for the effective reduction of malnutrition. If a significant part of
the components are successful a "recombination" of successful components
could be submitted by the SECF for further funding
Poverty Category
The proposed project is a targeted intervention, specifically targeting the
poorest territories.
Environmental Aspects
This is a Category C project. No resettlement will be necessary and no
impact made on the environment.
Program Objective Categories
The Program Objective Category is poverty reduction.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 13, 1998.
- 4 -



