                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 33747

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-31870 PPFI-Q1310)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.9 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA

                                                 FOR A

             NUTRITION, FOOD SECURITY, AND SOCIAL MOBILIZATION PROJECT




                                            October 28, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective September 2005)

                               Currency Unit = Mauritanian Ouguiyas (UM)
                                     268 UM = US$ 1
                               US$ 0.003731 = 1 UM

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country-Assistance Stratégie            Stratégie d'Aide-Pays
CCT     Conditional Cash Transfers              Transferts conditionnels en liquide
CNC     Community Nutrition Center              Centre Communautaire de Nutrition
CNWs    Community Nutrition Workers             Agents de Nutrition Communautaire
CREN    Rehabitation Center                     Centre de Réhabilitation et d'Education
                                                Nutrionnelle
DHS     Demographic and Health Survey           Enquête Démographique et de Santé
ICR     Implementation Completion Report        Rapport d'Achèvement du Projet
IDA     International Development Organization Organisation Internationale de
                                                 Développement
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan            Prêt au Développement des Connaissances et
                                                 à l'Innovation
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation               Suivi et évaluation
MOH     Ministry of Health                      Ministère de la Santé
MTR     Mid-Term Review                         Revue à Mi-Parcours
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization           Organisation non-gouvernementale
ONS     National Office of Statistics           Office National de la Statistique
PAD     Project Appraisal Document              Rapport d'Evaluation du Projet
PIU     Project Implementation Unit             Bureau de coordination de Projet
QAG     Quality Assurance Group                 Groupe Assurance Qualité
SCEF    State Secretariat to Feminine Condition Secrétariat d'Etat à la Condition Féminine
UGP     Project Management Unit                 Unité de Gestion de Projet
UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund          Fonds des Nations Unies pour l'Enfance




                              Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                             Country Director    A. David Craig
                             Sector Manager      Alexandre V. Abrantes
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Cherif Diallo

                                          MAURITANIA
                   Nutrition, Food Security, and Social Mobilization Project


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             14
6. Sustainability                                                                 15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                18
9. Partner Comments                                                               19
10. Additional Information                                                        20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             31
Annex 8 Beneficiaries' Perceptions of the Project                                 33
Annex 9 Lisf of End Notes                                                         35
Annex 10 IBRD Map #29621                                                          37

Project ID: P055003                                                                     Project Name: Nutrition, Food Security, and Social
                                                                                        Mobilization Project
Team Leader: Alessandra Marini                                                          TL Unit: YPP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                                      Report Date: October 31, 2005


1. Project Data
                         Name: Nutrition, Food Security, and Social Mobilization L/C/TF Number: IDA-31870; PPFI-Q1310
                                     Project
    Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                                                                     Region: Africa Regional Office

         Sector/subsector: Health (38%); Other social services (27%); Micro- and SME finance
                                     (20%); Central government administration (15%)
                        Theme: Child health (P); Nutrition and food security (P); Gender (S); Access
                                     to urban services and housing (S); Rural services and infrastructure
                                     (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                                       Original                         Revised/Actual
             PCD: 10/31/1997                                                      Effective: 05/15/1999
       Appraisal: 10/07/1998                                                          MTR: 10/14/2001                              10/28/2001
        Approval: 03/15/1999                                                       Closing: 10/31/2003                             04/30/2005



     Borrower/Implementing Agency:                    GOVERNMENT OF MAURITANIA/SECRETARIAT D'ETAT A LA
                                                      CONDITION FEMININE
                            Other Partners:

STAFF                                    Current                                                       At Appraisal
Vice President:                          Callisto E. Madavo                                            Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:                        Diarietou Gaye                                                Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:                          Alexandre V. Abrantes                                         Nicolas Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:                      Cherif Diallo                                                 Thierry A. Brun
ICR Primary Author:                      Alessandra Marini


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                   Outcome:           U
                            Sustainability:           UN
   Institutional Development Impact:                  M
                    Bank Performance:                 S
               Borrower Performance:                  U


                                                                     QAG (if available)                        ICR
                                           Quality at Entry: U                                                 U
                           Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Note to the reader:The ICR team is composed of Alessandra Marini (Economist, YPP/AFTHD) and Helle Alvesson (Consultant, AFTH2). We
understand that one of the criteria an ICR is rated upon is its conciseness and recognize that this report is rather long with respect to the norms.
However, given the fact that the project is a LIL and that the ICR could contribute to the new health and nutrition project currently under preparation,

the ICR teamattempted a more detailed and hopefully in-depth analysis of the project.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project. The US$ 4.9 million IDA Credit granted in May 1999 was a Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL). The objective of the Nutrition, Food Security and Social Mobilization Project (the Project) was to
assist Mauritania in testing the effectiveness of various activities to improve mother and child's health in its
territory. The Project consisted of the following parts: (a) activities related to the improvement of
nutritional status and health in rural areas; (b) social and educational activities in urban areas; (c)
institutional development; and (d) Project monitoring and evaluation. The objective was to be achieved
through: (a) selected activities initiated by women's cooperatives and women's associations; and (b)
decentralized services of the Borrower's ministries.

The Project was designed as a LIL because of its experimental nature: by testing a mix of components it
was supposed to "determine the most effective strategy for a future national nutrition project"..  1 The LIL
design would also have guaranteed the required flexibility to adjust elements of the prototypes and new
approaches as they unfolded throughout the Project period.

Assessment. The objectives reflected important priorities for Mauritania at that time: i) Mauritania faced
major challenges in reducing malnutrition; ii) the Project supported the country's strategy to strengthen
women's role, by entrusting the Secrétariat d'Etat à la Condition Féminine (SECF), a government
department recently created (1992) to give women greater empowerment, with the execution of the Project;
iii) moreover, the project was consistent with the Government's and the World Bank's priority on poverty
alleviation, human resource development and malnutrition reduction, as outlined in the May 1997 CAS.

While the development objectives were consistent with the country needs and the Bank priorities,
fundamental weaknesses in the Project design and deficiencies in the implementation arrangements and
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms ultimately affected the efficiency with which the Project objectives
were achieved and delayed completion by almost three years.

The Project became effective on October 13, 1999 and closed on April 30, 2005.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project objectives were never revised but at MTR the targets were revised in order to address the too
ambitious targets set initially: a) at MTR it was assessed that the indicators were not clear and were too
ambitious. The aide memoire is not explicit about the changes that were introduced. We infer that the
outcome indicator of reducing malnutrition by 30%2 was not revised but that only one indicator
(underweight) would be used. Stunting, wasting and micro-nutrient deficiency indicators would not be used
anymore; b) the output indicator of training of 10 female technicians was supplemented with training of
234 Community Nutrition Workers; c) the number of distributed micro grants was reduced from 140 to
117 which correspond to one micro-grant per Community Nutrition Center (CNC).
The Project, whose original implementation period was three years, has been extended twice and budget
reallocations were proposed and approved in May 2003 and May 2004

3.3 Original Components:
The Project included five main components.

The Community nutrition programcomponent (20% of total cost)3 sought to enhance the ability of families
to take better care of young children. It did so by guaranteeing the monthly availability of services for the



                                                                      - 2 -

prevention and treatment of malnutrition, including: growth monitoring of children less than three years of
age, individual counseling to mothers, nutritional supplements to pregnant and lactating women, and health
education.

The Micro-projectscomponent (39% of total cost) aimed at improving the income generating abilities of the
participating families through access to micro-credit or micro-grants for micro-projects aimed at improving
their nutritional status4 and develop sustainable income generating activities.

The Social mobilization and rural radio component (18% of total cost) sought to inform and sensitize the
poor population about the Project and its benefits. To this end, it envisaged: i) the use of radio and
television broadcast and information brochures, and ii) the creation of a rural radio station in the interior of
the country (Aiun).

The External evaluation component (7% of total cost) sought to evaluate the impact of the Project on the
beneficiaries and was the primary responsibility of the Office National de la Statistique (ONS).

The Institutional capacity building component (16% of total cost) aimed at strengthening the women's
cooperatives and the SECF, mainly by giving resources for Project implementation to selected regional
offices of the SECF.

The design of the Project was much more complex than described above. In the PAD the five components
were re-organized in two different prototypes, a rural and an urban prototype. The First Prototype aimed at
addressing malnutrition in rural areas, which were characterized by limited access to social services. It was
designed to be implemented by women's groups (cooperatives or NGOs) that showed commitment to
reduce malnutrition in their communities. The cooperatives were asked to identify one or more meaningful
activities (from a given list) for the reduction of malnutrition in their communities5 and in exchange the
Project would provide incentives to the cooperatives through NGOs. The Second Prototype aimed at
addressing malnutrition in urban areas, where in addition to poverty and lack of knowledge, adaptation to
the urban environment by former nomadic population was perceived to be a major determinant of
malnutrition. This prototype intended to address more specifically this transition to an urban environment.
It would rely primarily on existing urban district organization to implement nutrition activities and,
differently from the first prototype, would place more emphasis on the rehabilitation of moderately
malnourished children and on the better use of access to existing services. In addition, the Project would
assist groups of women in obtaining access to micro-credit provided by other institutions. Only under
specific conditions in urban areas would small grants be made available for micro-projects.

In practice. The design of the Project was complex for the Mauritanian context and hard to implement. It is
not clear from the design how the two prototypes should have worked and how they were related to the
testing activity. It is inferred that the purpose of the prototypes was to look at the effectiveness of a
combination of different instruments, growth promotion activities, and micro-grant incentives, and in
particular whether economic incentives could improve participation in growth promotion and nutrition
activities in addition to improving income levels and thus reduce malnutrition. During the implementation
phase the PIU "reinterpreted" the components and simplified the implementation substantially.6 The two
prototypes turned out to be practically identical, with the only differences that in urban areas the CNCs
were located in rented premises while in rural areas the premises were provided or built by the community,
which resulted in higher costs for CNCs in the urban areas. All the CNCs were asked to provide a set of
core nutrition related activities (instead of choosing at least one activity from a list) including: growth
monitoring of children, promotion of locally made weaning food, oral re-hydration against diarrhea,



                                                     - 3 -

promotion of breastfeeding, de-worming, use of mosquito nets, supplementation with iron, folate, iodine,
vitamin A, referral of severe cases of malnutrition to nutrition rehabilitation centers (Centres de
récupération et d'éducation en Nutrition,CREN), education of mothers. At the same time, all the CNCs
distributed small grants for micro-projects.

The design of the Project components and prototypes were linked to the Project underlying rationale, of
improving the nutritional status of women and children and in particular of fighting the causes of
malnutrition, among which ignorance and poverty were considered the most important. Despite the solid
rationale, the Project failed to recognize the limits of the local context and the lack of capacity and
commitment to implement community nutrition activities. In addition, the micro-credit component, designed
to fight poverty as a determinant of malnutrition, turned out to be detached from the nutrition component
both in terms of activities and of beneficiaries, as it will be discussed in the next sections.

To conclude, the activities carried out under the Project: i) were not adequately linked to the Project
objective, ii) did not present alternative options to be tested, and iii) should have comprised more
monitoring and evaluation activities.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Project description was not formally revised but new activities, consistent with the description of the
Project, were financed during the life of the Project. In particular: (i) in 2000, the rehabilitation of the
CRENs (infrastructure, equipment, and training of health workers) were financed from the funds of the
LIL, when the Ministry of Health committed that the severely malnourished children referred by the CNCs
would be taken care of; (ii) in November 2000, the construction of a rural radio station in Aiun was
abandoned; (iii) some restructuring and simplification of the monitoring and evaluation system and the
nutrition surveillance system occurred following MTR in October 2001; and (iv) in 2003, it was decided
that NGOs were not sufficiently qualified to implement activities under the Project given their limited
capacity and resources.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory in agreement with the Quality of Supervision Assessment (QAS6)
and based on several considerations described below.

First of all, one must point out that the design was accurate to the extent that: (i) it responded to the
country's needs, was consistent with the CAS, and was in line with the prevailing government's strategy in
strengthening the role of women through the SECF; (ii) it was partially based on analysis of previous
projects which had showed the Borrower's inability to successfully fight malnutrition; (iii) it recognized the
key role of women in determining the child's health and nutritional status and that only by giving women's
leading institution the primary role in conducting nutrition interventions, child nutrition would be addressed
in a sustainable manner; (iv) the choice of a LIL would have guaranteed the required flexibility needed to
                           7


adjust activities over the life of the Project; (v) targeting of communities appeared to be good and to focus
on the poorest districts.

Against these positive aspects the Project design suffered from a number of shortcomings, namely:

Complexity. The Project was a fairly ambitious and complex LIL and contained a relative broad range of
activities. The hypothesis was poorly specified and there was lack of clarity about learning outcomes. The
original design of growth monitoring activities was based on a "cohort approach", which guaranteed
nutrition surveillance for six months only, regardless of the age of entrance of the child and therefore
unable to ensure close follow-up of children for the entire critical first two to three years of life.8 In



                                                        - 4 -

practice, this strategy was never implemented but was a source of confusion finally addressed at MTR. The
relationship between income generated activities and the objective of reducing malnutrition was not clear,
nor the way women's cooperatives would implement nutrition activities. No specific strategies were
developed for the two prototypes. Finally, the proposed duration of the Project was unrealistic. First,
capacity building was a main part of the initial implementation which is recognized as time consuming. The
Project was supposed to increase capacity of each involved agent and at each level. Second, the promotion
of behavioral changes among the target group is also recognized to be a process that unfolds over years. A
more realistic time-frame would probably have been 5-6 years.

Over-estimation of local capacity. The implementation of the Project was not based on a realistic
assessment of the country's capacity at the central, regional and community level. The Project
implementation was delegated to the recently created SECF which did not have any demonstrated capacity
in nutrition, in setting up a monitoring and evaluation system, or in implementing a Project financed by the
World Bank including the understanding of the requirements and flexibility of a LIL. Moreover, by
expecting that NGOs would play a leading role in the delivery of community services, the implementation
arrangement did not take into account the Mauritanian context and its lack of tradition in NGO-government
partnership. It was hard to find minimally qualified Community Nutrition Workers (CNWs) who carried
out the growth monitoring activities at the CNCs. At the regional level, the Project was confronted with
instability of personnel mainly due to lack of human resources in nutrition. Finally, the required
collaboration between the SECF and the Ministry of Health was also an innovation that turned out to be
very difficult to establish.

Inaccuracy of the testing design. It was unclear what the outcome of the testing activities should be
measured against. The main concern for the project was the lack of consistency in the design of the base
and end line studies. Some data on control groups might have been collected at baseline, but quality was
very poor and the data was never analyzed or presented. Data on control groups were collected at end-line
but difficult to analyze due to choice of control sites neighboring the intervention sites. One explanation for
the problems with the method design was that the executing agency (ONS) first needed capacity building
before being capable to design the studies. Contamination between control and intervention villages is a
general concern for all studies, which however could have been reduced by choosing villages at a distance
from the intervention areas. Particularly, given that the Project was a LIL more emphasis should have been
placed on the testing component. A simple before and after study design without control groups is
admittedly easier to carry out and would for that reason have been a better choice given the existing
capacity (but the results of such a study cannot show the net impact of the project, which was the main
objective of the LIL).

Inappropriateness of M&E indicators. The performance and monitoring indicators proposed focused
more on input and output measures rather than process and outcome. Indicators on the conditions that
affect malnutrition rates were lacking such as indicators on the behaviors that were promoted
(breastfeeding, timely introduction of quality complementary foods, etc). As such, they were unable to
capture the behavioral changes among beneficiaries that were going to be promoted. The only indicator
proposed to evaluate achievement of the outcome (reduction in global malnutrition rate, including
micronutrient deficiencies, by 30%) was very ambitious, as reported during MTR. Monitoring specific
micronutrient deficiencies would have been very costly to measure and these indicators were never
considered. For this reason the ICR team tried to complement the lack of indicators through i) a qualitative
study that focused on behavioral change and beneficiaries perspectives on the Project (Annex 8) and ii)
proxy indicators (Annex 1).




                                                      - 5 -

Selectivity bias in the monitoring data. The sampling procedures of both the baseline and impact study
used only data on women who were members of cooperatives leading to an under-representation of the most
vulnerable women in the communities.

Inappropriateness of cooperatives as channel to the most vulnerable mothers and children. The
Project did not adequately address the potential socio/cultural/economic barriers that could impede
participation by the most vulnerable segments of the population who are less likely to be members in
women's cooperatives.

Inaccuracy of design of the micro-project component. The Project lacked a realistic assessment of the
social organization of women's cooperatives, and appears to have assumed that there was only one
cooperative in each community or alternatively that cooperatives would be able to pool their earnings. The
existence of several cooperatives in most villages and urban areas and the fact that cooperatives are
separate financial units, directed the spending of the micro-grants towards community stores. Moreover,
there was no initial strategy to control costs and keep the budget under control; the use of profits from the
micro-project (one-third of the profit was designed to be saved and spent on the CNCs after project closing)
was not clearly formulated nor was it mentioned in the contract between the cooperatives and the Borrower.



Under-estimation of risks. Most of the potential risks had been identified but their rating had been
under-estimated, for instance the implementation capacity of SECF, the capacity of CNWs, the high
illiteracy in Project areas, and the lack of experienced NGOs.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Unsatisfactory.

Achievement of the outcome is rated unsatisfactory if it is to be evaluated against the indicator of setting
up, measuring and reaching conclusive evidence with respect to success or failure of the testing activity.
The objective of a LIL generally consists of testing a hypothesis. The testing exercise of this Project was
not clearly stated and the M&E component was not designed specifically for the testing purpose. Control
communities at baseline were missing. At Project closure, data was collected in control communities
without any Project intervention. In order to gain insight into which type of combination of activities would
work to improve mother and child's health in the Mauritanian context, it would probably have been more
effective to test two different types of combination in the same kind of environment (i.e. growth monitoring
activities with and without economic incentives). Due to the lack of control groups at baseline and poor
data quality in general, it is hard to present any conclusive evidence on the success or failure of the testing
exercise.

Alternatively, and based on Annex 1 of the PAD, it could be argued that the development objective (DO)
was to be evaluated against the indicator of reducing underweight by a third among children aged 6 months
to 2 years of age in the intervention areas during the project period. Given the relevance of the M&E data
for a LIL and their poor quality in this Project, the achievement of the DO is rated unsatisfactory.

The impact study (2005) finds that 23.1% of children in the above mentioned age group are still
underweight at the end of the project compared to 27.5% at baseline, which comes to an underweight
reduction of 16%. However, the reduction was only found in the urban areas of Nouadhibou and
Nouakchott, while the three regions in the interior of the country showed an increase in the number of



                                                      - 6 -

underweight children (underweight increased from 22% to 30.4% in Hodh-el-Gharbi and from 21% to 27%
in Gorgol). Drought, locust invasion and loss of agricultural production and cattle may be the reason for
the deterioration in nutritional status in rural areas, but no conclusive evidence can be reached due to the
lack of control communities at baseline.

In addition, there is some concern about the design of the impact study and the quality of the data. First,
data contamination between control and intervention communities is reported to be a problem by the
authors of the impact study. Second, a selection bias of women especially in the rural area where only
beneficiaries who were members of the cooperatives were eligible in the sample is a concern. The selection
bias would lead to an under representation of the poorest women in the rural communities. Third, the
sample selection appears to be less inclusive than the selection in the base line study. Participation in
nutrition activities dropped significantly over time at most of the CNCs and data available seem to show
that the most vulnerable and malnourished children were not participating anymore (see discussion of
Component 1 below). Fourth, different seasonality in data collection affects data comparability: while both
the rural surveys (baseline and end-line) were carried out during normal seasons, in urban areas the
baseline was taken during the soudure (hunger) season, characterized by higher malnutrition rates, while
the end-line was taken in a more normal season. Different seasonality may therefore be responsible for
much higher urban malnutrition rates at baseline and possibly, for the obtained reduction in malnutrition in
urban areas (see Annex 1). Fifth, there is a lack of consistency between the 16% reduction of underweight
and the finding that the conditions affecting the reduction in underweight among children have worsened
during the project period. According to the impact study exclusive breastfeeding until 6 months of age has
decreased (from 83% in 2000 to 78% in 20049) and the prevalence of diarrhea has increased (to 23% from
19% in 2000). Housing conditions have likewise deteriorated and access to food has reportedly decreased
during the last years due to drought and locust invasion. Other factors such as decreasing participation
rates in the community nutrition program, difficulties in reaching the most vulnerable children and lack of
curative services for children diagnosed as malnourished would have all affected malnutrition rates
negatively or kept it stable. It is therefore considered possible that the 16% decrease in malnutrition rates is
explained by the application of different sample selections in the base line study and the impact study.
However, it is also possible that some effect has been achieved through the creation of awareness of
malnutrition as a serious health problem among young children that the Project has promoted. Based on the
available data it is impossible to say which of these conditions prevails.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The number of chosen performance indicators was limited to three which, given the fact that the project
was a LIL, is considered rather limited. As a result, three out of five components (Social Mobilization and
Rural Radio, External Evaluation, Institutional Capacity Building Component) are not linked directly to a
performance indicator.

First Component: Community Nutrition Program. Based on the indicator selected (number of centers
opened and number of trained female technicians) the component is rated satisfactory, as it has been
throughout the project period, despite major delays during the first years of implementation. However, if
one could take into account all of the concerns mentioned below and not limit the rating to the performance
indicator that was originally selected, the community nutrition program component would be rated
Marginally Unsatisfactory.

The anticipated output of this component was "enhanced capacity of women cooperatives in target villages
to be responsible for nutrition activities with the goal of establishing a total of 140 nutrition related
contracts and training 10 female technicians in each target region". In 2003 the target number of CNCs
was reduced to 117 which the Project succeeded to establish in the five regions of interventions with a


                                                       - 7 -

balanced mix of rural and urban locations. The CNCs seemed to be well targeted to poor regions and to
poor and underserved neighborhoods and villages. In many areas the CNC is the only local basic health
care easily accessible. The implementation progress in urban areas was better than in rural areas due to
lack of implementing NGOs in the interior of the country. In 2003 the NGOs were no longer used as
intermediaries, and regional nutritionists took over the supervision function. This change made the CNWs
more responsible and increased the ownership of the centers by the community.10 On the other side, the
change has decreased the supervision each CNC has received from what was estimated necessary at
appraisal.

The availability of women's cooperatives throughout the intervention area was a way to reach part of the
target group very quickly. It therefore made sense to use the cooperatives as entry points to the
communities from the beginning of the Project. Large groups of women with young children were
mobilized, as well as older women and grandmothers--who are important indirect target groups for
normative changes concerning mother and child health and nutrition. However, cooperatives do not
represent the whole community and their ability to mobilize women who are not members appeared much
weaker than their capacity to mobilize their own members.11 A qualitative study undertaken as part of the
ICR shows that at eight centers visited in Assaba and Gorgol regions, about 20 percent of the beneficiaries
mobilized were not members of the cooperatives, that is the cooperatives are mobilizing mainly their own
members. According to the regional nutritionists, between 20 and 25 percent of the population is member of
a cooperative in rural areas. The most vulnerable and poor women were found less likely to be mobilized.
The same study showed that several groups of women were identified by the CNW as being particularly
difficult to mobilize among which were young mothers, illiterate mothers, rich and very poor mothers, busy
mothers and newcomers. It is recognized that, with regard to preventive health programs, there is a risk of
motivating the population that has the same values and knowledge as the providers of the programs. The
segments of the population that already believe in the message are most easily attracted. The above list of
difficult groups to mobilize reflects the real risk of this pattern occurring. Also, it appears that over time
participation to growth promotion activities diminished significantly, and particularly by the worse off
children.12 This has been explained in part as disappointment to non-met expectations of mothers who
during the Project initial awareness campaign were promised food distribution and financing; in part as a
reaction to the monotonous and repetitive messages received during the education sessions.
In conclusion, it was an excellent idea to mobilize women through the cooperatives initially. The women's
cooperatives are well-organized structures providing easy access to large numbers of women. This should
have been complemented with other strategies to reach out to those women whose children are most at risk
of growth faltering, i.e., those without the money, time and connections to be included as a member of
cooperatives, particularly when it was realized that the participation rate was decreasing and few children
were diagnosed as malnourished.13

The greatest impact of the CNCs has been creating awareness about young children's special need for
nutritious diets in order to preserve health. The identification of the importance of nutrition among the well
established fields of food distribution and medical curative and preventive services, have been challenging
for the project at the community as well as the political level but seems to be gaining ground. According to
beneficiaries' and CNWs' statements collected in the qualitative study, the project led to some behavioral
changes that decrease the risk of malnutrition. The messages disseminated by the Project that women report
as easiest to practice at home are all characterized by activities that women can control by themselves.
They are related to activities the women carry out independently in their homes and that require few
resources, e.g., covering food to protect from flies, housecleaning, and making nutritious-dense porridge for
their children. In contrast, most of the messages on behavioral change that are promoted by the Project but
that women and CNWs report as being difficult to practice at home are intrinsically linked to environmental



                                                      - 8 -

factors. Such factors are not directly addressed by the Project. The lack of access to clean drinking water,
sanitation, health services, and nutritious food are fundamental conditions that strongly affect the
nutritional situation of children.

The identification of malnourished children at the CNCs has in general been weak and this part of the
component is rated unsatisfactory. Both supervision missions and the qualitative study indicate that the
CNWs fail to diagnose children, follow up is inappropriate or, more likely, that the children most in need of
growth monitoring do not participate. Not many data are available apart from the fact that, out of 41,907
children weighed during the life of the Project, 809 children have been referred to a CREN. No information
exists of what happened to these children as they were never followed up.14 What emerges from
conversations with the regional nutritionists is that the incentive structure for free referral to a CREN of
malnourished children has only been operative for very short periods at selected CNCs and has left CNWs
without any way to offer assistance to families with malnourished children. Moreover, the indirect costs for
families to reach the CREN were severely underestimated, particularly in rural areas. Even when the
CREN were rehabilitated (13 in total) the CNW would not always advice mothers to take their children and
have one meal per day at the CREN as the cost of reaching the centre was largely greater than the expected
benefits. The use of CREN for rehabilitation of most malnourished children would have appealed more to
the urban population, for which transport costs and distance are less of an issue. The lack of benefit in
being diagnosed is generally an important determinant of participation rates in preventive programs, and it
is also an issue that has an ethical component. The existence of an advantage in being diagnosed is one of
the established criteria for starting preventive programs--unfortunately, the Project has only to a very
limited degree met this goal.

Training of CNWs. This activity is rated as unsatisfactory. The target of training 10 female technicians per
region has been modified. Nine "formateurs"- senior and junior nutritionists have been trained and, in
addition, once it became clear that the cooperatives did not have enough capacity to implement nutrition
activities, CNWs were introduced and trained (234 in total). Unfortunately, the level and quality of the
training has been inadequate. Initially it was difficult to find enough qualified CNWs for the CNCs and
many of the entry-level CNWs had a lower level of academic skills than had been anticipated. The
paperwork involved in documenting the growth monitoring activities has for example been very demanding
for the CNWs and taken up much of the time that could have been spent on talking with the mothers. Sadly,
nothing much was done with the information. Supervision missions highlighted how growth promotion
activities were carried out as a mechanical exercise and not linked to counseling and growth promotion
activities. The majority of CNWs received shorter training than planned and due to very limited access to
refresher courses during the project period, the CNWs who entered the project at a later stage have not
received any training. Supervision visits by regional nutritionists have not been sufficient to satisfy the
needs of the CNWs who themselves experience a need for more training in nutrition as well as social
mobilization strategies. The component has suffered from the lack of a comprehensive and continuous
training program which has been noted several times during the Project period.

The most important strengths of the CNWs are their local connection to and knowledge of their
communities. In particular, in villages where social cohesion is high, the CNWs appear well-informed
about who is pregnant, who has given birth etc. Their relation with the women's cooperatives also proves
important, even though at some centers it is also very complicated. At the centers in which several
cooperatives participate and many beneficiaries exist outside the cooperatives, the CNW has to walk a fine
line of keeping the focus of attention on growth monitoring activities for all beneficiaries. The quality of
services provided by CNWs appears to be a prerequisite for, but not a guarantee of, the success of the
CNCs.



                                                    - 9 -

Second Component: Micro-projects. This component is rated Marginally Satisfactory based on the poor
targeting of the beneficiaries and on the weak link between the micro-projects and the CNCs and nutrition
activities. The planned number of grants was distributed and the overall profit margin was around 30%, but
we have no information on performance of the individual centers.

The performance indicator of this component is "good performance in at least 20 micro projects or one
third of the micro-projects funded in each of the region". Good performance is defined as at least 30%
profit margin on micro-project investments each year of Project. This component was projected to stand for
39% of the total project costs but was recognized to be over financed and was later cut to 9%. The total
number of grants distributed is 117 of which 113 were operational at project closure. The national Project
team has worked under the assumption that each CNC should benefit from one micro-grant. The
distribution of grants was delayed until 2003 and was initially rated unsatisfactory due to initial long NGO
recruitment process, financial procurement problems and a need to revise the procedures in the
Implementation Manual with a clearer definition of responsibilities of the recipients of the micro-grants.

The grants were intended to fund nutrition activities, generate income and the beneficiaries were to decide
themselves what activities the grant would be applied for. This multipurpose strategy became very difficult
to fulfill. The vast majority of grants (101 of 113) were unexpectedly spent on setting up community stores
rather than on activities more directly linked to nutrition. The rest of the grants were spent on mills and
fence production more in line with the initial intentions of the Project (Table 1).

                        Table 1: Micro-projects by activity and region (2003 and 2004)
    Region       Community        Fence      Gas store      Cement        Butcher    Mills    TOTA
                     Stores    Production                  production                            L
Nouakchott            13                          1             1                                15
Nouadhibou             5                                                                         5
Hodh El               33                                                      1         1        35
Gharbi
Gorgol                24            2                                                   4        30
Assaba                26            1                                                   1        28
TOTAL                 101           3             1             1             1         6       113
Percentage of        89.4%        2.7%          0.9%          0.9%         0.9%       5.3%     100%
total
                                             Source: SECF, 2005.

The reasons for the choice of a community store were the expectation of profit but more importantly the
result of the condition that the micro grant should benefit the entire community. The cooperatives are
autonomous, have their own presidents and accountants, and do not share revenue or business activities
with other cooperatives - which to some extent are competitors. The incompatibility between the
organizational structure of the cooperatives and the conditions of financial collaboration for receiving the
micro grant partly explains why most micro grants were devoted to setting up community stores rather than
to the usual activities of cooperatives. The majority of beneficiaries of the micro grants expressed that they
preferred for each cooperative to receive a smaller amount of the grant and had decided among themselves
which activities to pursue. Several cooperatives claimed that they would have been able to generate much
higher revenues if they had invested in their traditional activities (such as batik painting of fabrics or
leather).

The beneficiaries of the micro grant were women who were members of the cooperatives at the time of
distribution in 2003 and 2004. Micro grants therefore do not only benefit women with children under three


                                                     - 10 -

years of age or families with malnourished children--who are the intended target group of the Project.15 The
requirement that cooperatives contribute 10 percent of the value of the micro grant as a sign of ownership
has inadvertently made it difficult for new women to enter the cooperatives if they had not made an initial
contribution.

Several focus group discussions with beneficiaries of the centers (who were not members of cooperatives)
highlighted complaints about the fact that they were not invited to take part in the grants from the
beginning. Many women who are not members of a cooperative tend to be poorer and more vulnerable. The
poorest women lack the financial means to make the initial contribution required to enter the cooperative,
but most importantly, they lack time to leave their households to participate in activities. The CNWs have
been heavily involved in these differences between beneficiaries that the micro grant inadvertently
generated.

According to Project management, one third of the profits from the micro-grants should have originally
been devoted to finance the CNC, but later on it was decided that the third would be saved, without any
further directive on how it could be spent later. The savings from the grants amounted in 2003 to 3.000.000
UM (around US$ 12,000). The money was blocked until recently by the Project management and during
the mission for the qualitative study rather different interpretations of the application of the savings were
explained in the three regions visited. No clear message on whether the money belonged to the CNC or to
the women's cooperatives has been disseminated. This is a lost opportunity to link the micro grant to the
growth promotion activities. One third of the profit went to salaries for the women working in the stores,
which is the main reason why few have benefited directly. Only a few CNCs have used the grant as
revolving credits as initially anticipated.

Third Component: Social mobilization/Rural Radio. No indicator is linked to the component but due to
the very limited activity, the component is rated unsatisfactory.

The component was designed to support the rural radio in collaboration with UNICEF in order to
disseminate information about the Project and to contribute to behavioral change in the target population
and favor the adoption of appropriate nutritional behavior. The anticipated construction of a rural radio in
Aiun was abandoned at MTR due to improvements in the radio coverage in the region and because of its
higher cost than estimated at Project start. Collaboration with the national Radio Mauritania for the
broadcasting of nutrition related messages started in May 2002, and a bimonthly publication was created
and distributed to the main nutrition actors. Apart from that, activities of this component, which finally
represented 4% of total Project costs, from an estimated of 18%, were very limited. It was throughout the
Project recommended to hire an Information Education Communication (IEC) specialist as member of the
central staff in order to develop an IEC strategy and to support the promotion of behavioral changes and
individual counseling at the CNC. Comprehensive community-based nutrition communication programs are
an essential component of the success of growth promotion activities. Despite several recommendations
from the supervision missions, the specialist was never hired contributing to the weak performance of this
important aspect of the Project.

Fourth Component: External Evaluation. This component is rated unsatisfactory.

The ONS has been allocated resources to strengthen its capacity in evaluation of the nutritional impact of
the Project. The office has mainly been designated to carry out the initial baseline study and the impact
evaluation at Project closure. Training of ONS personnel was limited to two study trips whilst most of the
institutional strengthening of this component was spent on equipments.



                                                    - 11 -

The baseline study was delayed and was ready only in December 2002. Problems about group sampling
were noticed, as mentioned above. The late access to data delayed the site selection in the rural areas. The
impact study has been carried out on time but again with methodological problems, which have resulted in
concern about the main findings and impact of the Project. The quality of the data seems rather poor,
namely: i) control groups data are largely contaminated: women in control group participate regularly to
activities in the nutrition centers. In the Gorgol region, in particular, treatment and control groups are
hardly distinguishable with respect to participation to the nutrition activities; ii) the difference of results
between treatment and control groups areas is not explained solely by the existence of the Project: in
Nouhadibou, for example, the population has benefited from a former UNICEF project which could have
improved the malnutrition rate; iii) there is a problem in the definition of exclusive breastfeeding as the
rates of exclusive breastfeeding are extremely high (78% in 2004) compared to both international standards
(on average 24.9% of children younger than six months are exclusively breastfed in Africa, 30.8% in Latin
America and Caribbean, 44.9% in Asia16 and to the Mauritania national average (according to the latest
DHS survey only 28% of children 0-3 months and 9% of children 4-5 month are exclusively breastfed).

The collaboration between the ONS and the Project team needs intensification in order to increase capacity
and quality. The capacity improvements needed at the ONS was underestimated at appraisal. Most
importantly, no specific design was put in place to implement the testing exercise included in the
development objective: the hypothesis were poorly specified, as discussed under the Achievement of
Objectives section, and the data collected were insufficient to provide conclusive evidence, as specified
above.

Fifth Component: Institutional Capacity Building. For the reasons mentioned below, this component is
rated marginally unsatisfactory.

The objective was to strengthen the women's cooperatives and the SECF at the national as well as regional
level in planning, coordination and monitoring and evaluation. Capacity of ONS, CREN and NGOs were
also supposed to be strengthened. Monitoring activities were also supposed to be developed under this
component through the SECF. The Project successfully strengthened women's cooperatives, trained 234
CNW (against the 146 targeted) and established 117 CNCs. Capacity building of ONS was limited to
purchasing equipments apart from two study trips. As of 2003, NGOs were no longer actively involved in
the implementation of the Project. This change had a positive impact on the ownership of the centers by the
community. The other activities of this component are discussed below.

CREN: Previous collaboration between the SECF and the MOH has been very limited and the finalization
of an agreement of collaboration was only ready in 2002. The Project was designed with a clear distinction
between the responsibilities of the SECF and the MOH. The SECF was responsible for the prevention of
malnutrition at the grass-root level (CNC) such as growth promotion activities, social mobilization,
identification of severe malnutrition cases, while the MOH was to be responsible for the medical treatment
of the severely malnourished children. All severe cases of malnutrition would have to be referred to the
CREN under the responsibility of the MOH. The MOH had also the responsibility of supervision of drug
and micro-nutrients distribution under the Project area. However, despite the fact that 13 CREN have been
rehabilitated and provided with adequate equipment, the MOH did only to a limited extent deliver the
agreed services at the centers partly due to lack of health personnel. The cost-recovery issue also explains
part of the difficulties as children referred by the Project were not supposed to pay. Clear communications
with local level staff responsible for the CREN was missing and the question of cost-recovery for the target
population of the Project was never reviewed. The regional nutritionists have established periodic and
informal collaboration with Health Centers on providing curative services to rural villages and some CNCs


                                                     - 12 -

have on the other hand mobilized women and children for vaccination campaigns. However, the initial
problem remains of sporadic collaboration between the SECF and MOH at all levels.

SECF: Three regional SECF offices have been constructed. The activities of initially hiring the national
Project staff, purchasing equipment and providing training was delivered on time and accomplished already
in 2001. The implementation capacity at the central level has during most of the Project time been rated
unsatisfactory and the Project progressed very slowly initially which resulted in a delay of the MTR and
eventually in an extension of the Project. The relatively young SECF had a comparative advantage in social
mobilization and gender issues but had not prior experience on working with nutrition and child health. The
capacity of the central Project management to link the child growth promotion to the micro grants has been
weak throughout the Project period which could be partly explained by the lack of experience in the topic.
The national staff and some of the regional nutritionists have benefited from training opportunities in
neighboring countries in nutrition related topics. The integration of nutrition at the SECF is mainly through
the promotion of existing projects at the CNCs (HIV/AIDS, reduction of female genital cutting) rather than
vice versa.

The position of regional nutritionist is still being developed--the completion of this task faces several
challenges. The support and communication from the central level has been very limited even though it has
been emphasized at several occasions. Regional nutritionists are some of the few public health workers in
the regions--they are constrained by the lack of a preventive health structure in the regions and do not
appear to have found the right position in order to integrate their work into the regional structure.

Monitoring activities, a crucial component in a LIL, have been a concern throughout the Project period and
have been rated unsatisfactory between 2002 and 2003. In practice, the monitoring system was not
developed until August 2003 after a videoconference organized with the PIU, the Bank and representatives
from academia. The system of indicators was then simplified significantly. Data started to be collected but
no analysis was ever carried out, moreover, because of the poor capacity of CNW, data are not available
for all the centers, reference periods are not homogenous and many mistakes were discovered in the data
records.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact is rated as modest. A few issues are worth highlighting.
First, relationships with donors were strengthened as most of the Project's meeting and missions were
developed in close consultations with external and internal partners. Second, the Project has been
participating in the development of the first National Nutrition Policy in the country which is currently
prepared for approval by the government. Third, the Project participated in periodic discussions with the
Ministry of Health and with the Ministry of Mines and Industry in the preparation of the salt iodization
law. A decree has already been adopted; the challenge is now to implement it. Fourth, the reorganization of
the SECF regional antennas into "services" contributed to increase their status and responsibilities, and is
expected to allow the SECF to better carry out its mandate more effectively.

Against these positive results, a few issues persisted. First, the SECF benefited from construction and
equipment of building and training of staff, but its planning, coordination and monitoring and evaluation



                                                     - 13 -

capacity remained very weak, despite several efforts by Bank staff to address the issues. Second, some
intersectoral collaboration problems persist and the difficult coordination between the SECF and the
Ministry of Health represented an important obstacle to the effectiveness of the Project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The country suffered a drought in 2003 and locust invasions in 2003 and 2004 which resulted in significant
loss of agricultural production and loss of cattle. This may explain, in part, the worsening of nutritional
status of children in rural areas.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government made good progress in recognizing that nutrition interventions are essential to reduce
malnutrition and infant mortality and in recognizing the multi-sectoriality of nutrition. Moreover, the
government managed to mainstream nutrition in the development agenda and to develop a national nutrition
policy.

The lack of collaboration between the MOH and the SECF impeded the proper execution of some key
activities of the project. Micro-nutrient activities in community nutrition centers have been very limited.
The CRENs which have been rehabilitated and equipped by the Project, failed to provide treatment of
severely malnourished children referred by the Project. Part of the difficulties can be explained by the fact
that the cost-recovery issue was never finalized. In summary, it seems like the MOH failed to understand
the opportunities provided by the Project, such as the potential of CNCs to become the grass-root approach
to health activities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project started real implementation only long time after its effectiveness and the closing date had to be
extended by almost three years as a result of delays in the preparation of the baseline survey, difficulty in
finding NGOs and of some procurement and financial management problems. Project management issues
were identified and raised by the Bank team at MTR and during the February 2003 supervision mission,
but the PIU did not adequately follow up nor implement them i.e.: improving the M&E system, hiring an
IEC specialist to improve the quality of individual counseling and interpersonal communication, extending
training and retraining of the CNWs; improving supervision of CNCs; making micro-grants accessible to
all beneficiaries. The lack of follow-up has contributed to the problems of creating demand in especially
growth promotion activities and the micro-projects component, which should have been a minor part of the
program, became a dominant feature at all levels, while growth promotion activities suffered from lack of
attention.

SECF's experience in social mobilization through the women's cooperatives and their general objective of
reaching the vulnerable groups in the Mauritanian society could have prompted more analysis on the
targeting of beneficiaries and assuring that the poorest women were included, or called for a beneficiary
assessment during Project implementation.

The PIU managed the Project in a centralized manner and consultations and communications with the
regional offices and with the local communities, appears very limited. This impeded the flow of information
and the analysis of data. Administrative procedures for permitting the regional nutritionists to carry
supervision visits at CNCs out, where controlled by the PIU. Decentralization of logistical decisions to
each region might have increased the supervision visits. Finally, the instability of administrative personnel
of the Project contributed to the delay in execution of a few activities.




                                                     - 14 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total Project cost was estimated at US$ 5.3mn at the time of appraisal and the Government of Mauritania
was to contribute US$ 0.3mn to the Project and beneficiaries US$ 0.1mn. At Project closing 115% of
funds of the available credit was disbursed (benefiting from a favorable exchange rate over the course of
the Project). Project Expenditure by activity is based on estimates of actual spending by the Project. The
data reveal significant variations between estimated expenditures and real expenditures at the time of
writing the ICR, which only in part can be explained by the devaluation of the local currency, but probably
mainly from poor initial allocation of resources and by delays in the implementation process. The
Institutional capacity building and the community nutrition components turned out to be much more
expensive than estimated (by about 300% and 200% respectively) while the micro-projects and social
mobilization components were significantly restructured. Audit reports were submitted to IDA timely
although they were generally qualified mainly for alleged misuse of IDA funds given insufficient
counterpart resources which was a problem with most Bank-financed operations in Mauritania. Ineligible
expenses were reimbursed year after year on IDA request. This undermined partially the financial
management regarding GoM's compliance with financial covenants of credit.

Implementation and disbursement delays. Disbursement was very slow during the first three years of
implementation. By February 2003, a few months after the original closing date, only 47.7% of the total
IDA credit was disbursed. This was due to several reasons: the delay in the implementation of the nutrition
activities was mainly due to the setback of the baseline surveys (the urban survey was ready only in
January 2001 while the rural in February 2001) and to difficulties in the selection of NGOs interested in
working in the Project. Micro-nutrient activities were delayed because of the lack of collaboration between
SECF and the Ministry of Health. Major civil works for the institutional capacity component were delayed
for non-respect of bidding procedures and for systematic overestimation of activity costs. Finally the
Project faced serious financial management problem when during the November 2000 supervision mission
it was noted that 20 support staff were hired and paid with credit proceeds instead of the two that were
originally planned.

While disbursement accelerated during the last two years, it took two extensions of the closing date with the
result that the project took 6 years to complete (from Project signing to completion) against the 3.5 years
planned.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the Project as it is not likely. Mothers' participation in nutrition activities was initially to a
high degree based on the expectations of micro-grants and CNWs lack the basic capacity to implement
growth promotion activities. The M&E system remains very weak, despite some improvement in 2003. In
order to improve sustainability of the nutrition activities it is essential to build an expanded outreach system
within the communities that goes beyond the cooperatives, ensure a minimum level of capacity of CNWs,
improve individual counseling and interpersonal communications by hiring an IEC expert, ensure the
cooperation between local health workers and CNWs, and finally set-up regular and appropriate
supervision.

Once the Project's main activities are reviewed and simplified a few factors may favor its sustainability,
namely the existence of a momentum in the country for keeping investing in nutrition; the strengthening of
SECF in nutrition and social mobilization, awareness has been raised on the importance of nutrition and its
multisectoriality, a national nutrition plan has been approved and nutrition is currently mainstreamed in the
government's development agenda.



                                                      - 15 -

For the above reasons, sustainability is rated as unlikely, even if marginally so.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The government of Mauritania is committed to malnutrition reduction, as highlighted in the most recent
CAS 03-05 and has requested the Bank to support a follow up national nutrition program as part of the
new Health and Nutrition Support Project. The nutrition component will benefit from the lessons learned
through the community nutrition program evaluated in this Project. The new project's main objective is to
contribute to the improvement of the health and nutrition status of the population in general, notably of
women, children, and the poor, as it will support the implementation of the Government's program for the
health and nutrition sectors during the period 2006-2008. It will not only improve access to basic health
and nutrition services but focus on improving key-behaviors for young children and pregnant and lactating
women's nutrition. To do so the main focus for all existing and new sites will be community-based
communication (focusing on simple key messages related to feeding practices, exclusive breastfeeding,
hygiene and child care) and promotion of basic nutrition services (vitamin A supplementation and
de-worming of children and iron supplementation of pregnant women). In its simplest form, sites will
campaign for a period of three months on one particular nutrition-relevant message with performance
indicators to monitor the "readiness" to move on to another theme. It is expected that by focusing on one
message at a time and less on the routines and paperwork related to growth monitoring activities, CNWs
could be more effective in delivering nutrition related messages and at changing behavior. It has also been
agreed that growth monitoring and promotion (GMP) will no longer be considered the essential component
of the project. Sites where the activities have been going well should continue (to safeguard the community
mobilization), but in other sites the growth monitoring activities may be reduced or even stopped.
Moreover, the programs is expected to resolve the pending issue of cost recovery by strengthening the
cost-recovery system which renders drugs and services affordable to the poor population and, in order to
ensure increases in the consumption of iodized salt, it will focus on the application of the salt iodization law
(in close collaboration with UNICEF). The expected board date of the new project is in March 2006.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance during Project preparation was unsatisfactory. Despite being in line with the
government's strategy and the Bank's CAS, the Project suffered from insufficient attention to quality at
entry. A very complex design coupled with unrealistic assessment of local capacity, technical feasibility
and underestimation of risks led to serious difficulties at the beginning of the Project and to sluggish
implementation during the initial three years of the Project. Most importantly, the testing exercise which
constituted the Project development objective was poorly specified both in terms of hypothesis and of M&E
system. The Project was only the second Bank-financed with SECF as the implementing agency, and it
appears that some of the requirements and flexibilities offered by the LIL was only explained to a limited
extent.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during Project supervision was marginally satisfactory. The Project was
adequately supervised with about 2 missions per year. Missions were well staffed with a good mix of skills
of implementation and technical specialists, a committed and proactive team from both the field (including
the new TTL) and headquarters which took continuous lead in upholding the Project and trying to improve
its implementation and performance. Supervision missions were essential in getting the project going and
back on track ­ the quality of advice was in general very good (receiving a very positive remark from a
QAG review in 2004) with particularly timeliness and relevant recommendations during the MTR and the



                                                    - 16 -

February 2003 mission, which tried to significantly revitalize the Project. Proactive supervision had an
impact on the rapid improvement in project disbursement over the last few years of implementation. This
shows that effective supervision, with the support of country office staff, can significantly improve sluggish
Project performance. In addition, the Bank team developed and maintained regular contacts with the Project
unit to support them and solve issues that may have affected implementation of the Project. With the same
objective, regular meeting with the donor communities and the key ministries were held.

Against this positive assessment, it should be noted, however, that in terms of implementation progress and
performance rating there seems to be some disconnect between the Bank team's rating of the Project
activities and their actual performance. For example, during the first three years of Project execution, when
implementation remained sluggish, the community nutrition program has always been rated satisfactory.
Similarly, the M&E component became satisfactory in 2003 only based on expectations that things would
get better. Finally, the Bank should have considered restructuring the project at MTR.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the Bank performance is rated Marginally Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during Project preparation was satisfactory. The government adopted a
participatory approach during the development of the Project and had consultations with all potential
stakeholders and clients.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government implementation performance is rated Marginally Satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance
displayed flexibility in allowing the disbursement of funds. The SECF was particularly good at social
mobilization and at doing it quickly. However, the MOH did not create an enabling environment for the
Project and did not facilitate dialogue over the cost recovery issues, the supervision by health facilities of
the project micro-nutrient activities and the recovery of severely malnourished children in CRENs

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The implementing agency of the Project
was an autonomous entity (Unité de Gestion de Projet - UGP) housed within the SECF. Management of
the project has been a source of concern during the implementation and has been reflected in the rating
which continuously floated between satisfactory and unsatisfactory and at Project closing was still
unsatisfactory. Most of the problems are discussed in section 5.3 and mainly derive from the UGP's lack of
commitment in reducing malnutrition and very little sign of ownership of the Project, except for the
distribution of micro-grants. And, as highlighted during supervision, the UGP "lacks dynamism, analytical
skills and technical leadership". Little importance was given to the implementation of essential activities
and, most importantly, to the recommendations coming from the supervision missions. More effort was
needed in making sure that the evaluation of nutrition activities was translated into action. Finally, despite
the fact that at local and regional level there appeared to be more commitment and dynamism, the central
office failed to channel and coordinate these efforts and to favor regular interchange of experiences.
Procurement suffered from lack of support from the resident mission, also due to the fact that for a long
time the procurement specialist position in the WB country office has been vacant.17 Moreover, it seems
that there have been recurrent difficulties with the management of some construction contracts. Financial
management and auditing documents did not reflect the effective level, or a complete picture, of the Project
expenses as reported during the August 2002 mission. Documents often presented incoherent and erroneous
classifications but seem to have improved lately.



                                                     - 17 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

A draft version of this ICR provided input to the design of the nutrition component of the new Health and
Nutrition Support Project. Key lessons from this Project can be summarized as follows:

Even an unsatisfactory-rated project can have positive effects in advancing sustainable aspects. The
Government is now firmly committed to reducing malnutrition; an effort in that direction has been good
progress in creating political will for reducing malnutrition through the elaboration of the National
Nutrition Policy and Salt Iodization decree. Institutions have developed some capacity to work at the
community level and awareness has been raised of the importance of reducing malnutrition.

Ensuring collaboration between the SECF and the Ministry of Health is crucial to the success of most
nutrition activities. Ideally the division of roles should reflect the institutions' comparative advantages:
technical and supervision competence should be assumed by the Ministry of Health while the SECF should
concentrate on social mobilization.

In counties with limited project implementing capacity it may be premature to introduce community
growth promotion activities. UNICEF had already reported difficulties in promoting growth monitoring
activities in Mauritania. Unfortunately it was assumed that the difficulties could be overcome through the
incentive system offered by the micro-grants and did not concentrate on creating demand and capacity to
work on growth promotion such as better training and supervision and, in particular, communication
activities.

Developing individual counseling is essential to the success of growth promotion activities. Growth
monitoring - as a weighing exercise and not linked to counseling and growth promotion activities­can be
counterproductive as it builds up frustration and de-motivates the mothers. The CNWs in Mauritania have
very low capacity why it might be better if the CNW had no auxiliary tools like flipcharts as they would
have to observe the child, talk to the mothers and explore the reasons for the child's weight loss, etc. The
development of interpersonal communication skills is crucial in achieving behavioral changes and
improving the nutritional status of mothers and children.

A better assessment of local capacity is essential at project design. In particular, proper analysis would
have highlighted: i) lack of NGO capacity and tradition with government partnership; ii) limited capacity at
community level to undertake growth promotion activities; iii) identification of conditions that affects the
nutritional status (clean water, sanitation); iv) social organization of women's cooperatives and v) existence
of traditional practices that may affect children nutritional status. The integration of the social assessment
findings in the Project implementation is likewise important.

A careful assessment of the execution capacity is needed so that only activities that can be executed are
planned. It is also possible to phase out activities in order to avoid that too much stress is put on the limited
capacity from the very beginning.

Developing a simple and agile M&E system and making sure that the information is used can improve
the Project's performance, and is of particular importance in the case of a LIL. Since the beginning of the
Project very little attention was devoted to this component and it remained the weakest part of the Project.



                                                       - 18 -

Selecting few, relevant and measurable indicators might improve their likelihood of implementation.
Feed-back of results could increase the understanding of the usefulness of M&E to all parties involved in
the data collection.

A LIL cannot accomplish its unique role simply by adding a stronger M&E component onto a
regular project; the design of the project itself needs to be different. To make sure that it is different,
the responsible for the M&E component must have a say in the overall design of the project--for example,
in how different inputs/activities are introduced, in the selection of groups targeted to receive these inputs,
in the selection of `control' groups, and in decisions on data to be gathered, starting with the baseline.

In a country with limited project implementing capacity a LIL is even more difficult to implement
than a standard project. An investment project of the same size with more focus on execution than
learning may have been a better choice: the project would have been simpler to implement, relieved from
the expectations of a very solid M&E component and in particular of a good impact evaluation. In this
specific case, the size of the project was rather large given the size of the country (almost US$2 per capita).
Finally, a three year project for a country with low implementing capacity was too ambitious: a preparatory
period is needed to establish a PIU, understand what type of relationship the PIU should develop with the
Bank and, in this specific case, with the MoH.

Incentives should be more tightly linked with the outcome desired. Income generating activities (IGAs)
were poorly managed which caused attention to be diverted away from the nutrition activities. The IGAs
were used as incentives for the nutrition activities and when the IGAs were not forthcoming, the women felt
cheated and got upset. It's the use of incentives that got the project in trouble, and generally is the wrong
basis for building community ownership. However, IGAs could have a useful role in community-based
nutrition activities when addressing issues that are not under women's control and that could therefore
favor an enabling environment for child health. For that purpose, the administration of IGA implies
knowledge of on social organization in the communities in order to distribute them most efficiently.
Unfortunately, this project team handled this question poorly. Thus, it is advisable to continue investing in
these activities, if deemed necessary, under a separate Project which would be more focused on poverty
reduction. This lesson could be applied more generally to the combination of community growth promotion
activities and different economic incentives (such as Conditional Cash Transfers, for example). Community
growth promotion activities are based on behavioral change and as such aim at working with mothers to
increase their knowledge and convince them of the intrinsic benefits of participating in growth
monitoring/counseling sessions. Incentives could be useful where they are offsetting the costs incurred by
mothers to participate to nutrition activities. Community programs are based on community volunteers who
know the community inside-out and are able to reach out to those families who live in the most remote
areas and for which it would be too costly to come to the centers. Therefore, one would not envisage a great
role for these types of incentives where the community program functions properly. Economic incentives
create major challenges in designing a proper exit strategy.

Support to the Statistical Institute is needed. The ONS did not demonstrate sufficient capacity to be able
to perform the required data collection and impact evaluation activities. Support in developing the methods
for base- and end-line studies, especially in LILs, could be integrated in the initial implementation process.
Strengthening the institute's capacity is essential to ensure proper evaluation of future activities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                      - 19 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                Annex 1. Performance Indicators

                                Table 2. Performance Indicators18

                     Baseline 11/2001                30/4/2005             Comments
                               (actual id-term)      (actual end of
                                                     project)
                              Target       Actual    Target        Actual  TargetActual
Outcome/Impact
Indicators
1) 30 percent        27.5%    22%          -         19.25%        23.1%   Baseline ready very late,
reduction of                                                               poor data quality. No
underweight in                                                             data available at MTR
children
6 mo-2yrs19
Exclusive            83%      -            -         -             78.3%     20


breastfeeding until 6
months*
Diarrhea             19%      -            -         -             22.9%   During the last 4 weeks
prevalence*
Vaccination          90%      -          -           -             97%-    National data. Child
coverage*                                                                  having received at least
                                                                           one vaccination
2) Reduced           -        -            -         -             -       Never measured
prevalence of 30%
of main
micronutrient
deficiencies(iron,
iodine, Vit A)
Output indicators
3) Good              0        -           0          20 or 39     -        Criteria is at least 30%
performance in at                                                          profit margin on
least 20 micro                                                             micro-project investments
projects or one third                                                      each year. 21


of the micro-projects
funded in each of the
regions
4) Training of 10    0        -           -          10           9        Complemented with
female technicians                                                         training of community
                                                                           nutrition workers due to
                                                                           change in mobilization
                                                                           strategy
Number of            0        146          106       146           234     Two CNWs trained per
community nutrition                                                        CNC
workers trained*



                                               - 21 -

Number of           0         146       0            117         117          In 2003 the target was
distributed                                                                   reduced.
micro-grants*                                                                 113 were operational at
                                                                              project closure
Number of children 0          22,080    15,513       28,200      39,711       Criteria is child weighted
in growth                                                                     at least once
monitoring*
Number of CNC*      0         117       53           117         116
Women in            0         5,520                  14,100      10,572       Assuming that 6,753
lactating/pregnancy                                                           women who received Vit
follow-up*                                                                    A are included in the
                                                                              10,572 pregnant women
                                                                              who received iron tablets
                                                                              22


Number of           N/A       -         -            -           5,640       Never measured
prevented cases of
malnutrition*



Table 3. Reduction of underweight malnutrition in children 6 months-2 years per region
                   Baseline                                      30/4/2005
                                                               End of project
                                   Target (30%)            Actual
Nouakchott         32.4            22.7                    18.5
Nouadhibou         31.9            22.3                    15.7
Gorgol             21              14.7                    26.9
Assaba             28.6            20                      29
Hodh Gharbi        22.3            15.6                    30.4
Total              27.5            19.25                 23.1



              Table 4. Return on investment of micro-grants per region in 200323
              Nouakchot    Nouadhibou Gorgol           Assaba      Hodh-el-     Total
              t                                                    Gharbi
Initial grant 6,097,300    3,750,000     6,900,000 6,310,000 8,000,000 31,057,30
(UM)                                                                            0
Profit (UM) 1,275,574      1,811,870     1,667,329 1,865,222 2,551,380 9,171,375
Return on     20.9%        48.3%         24.1%         29.5%       31.8%        29.5%
investment




                                              - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                            Table 5: Project Costs by Component (US$)
Component                          Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate24    Appraisal
Institutional Strengthening            800,000                     1,935 147.4      241.89
Community Nutrition                    1,000 000                   1,782 660.5      178.27
Micro-projects                         1,900 000                    439,786.0       23.15
Social Mobilization                     900,000                     177,238.6       19.69
External Evaluation                     300,0000                    181,013.3       60.34
             Total                     4,900 000                   4,515 845.8      92.16
                                         Source: SECF, 2005

 Table 6. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
                                           equivalent)   25\




                                                  Procurement Method26
      Expenditure Category            ICB        NCB        Other     UN27    N.B.F.  Total Cost

      1. Works                        0.00        0.13       0.04     0.00     0.00       0.18

                                      (0.00)     (0.13)     (0.03)   (0.00)   (0.01)     (0.17)

      2. Goods                        0.00        0.07       0.64     0.35     0.00       1.05

                                      (0.00)     (0.06)     (0.63)   (0.35)   (0.02)     (1.04)

      3. Training                     0.00        0.00       0.39     0.00     0.00       0.39
                                      (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.38)   (0.00)   (0.01)      0.38
      4. Services                     0.00        0.00       2.06     0.00     0.00       2.06

                                      (0.00)     (0.00)     (2.05)   (0.00)   (0.00)     (2.05)

      5. Miscellaneous                0.00        0.00       1.44     0.04     0.00       1.47
                                      (0.00)     (0.00)     (1.16)   (0.04)   (0.28)     (1.19)
         Total                        0.00        0.20       4.56     0.39     0.00       5.15

                                      (0.00)     (0.19)     (4.25)   (0.39)   (0.32)     (4.83)



                                         Source: SECF, 2005




                                                - 23 -

                                  Table 7. Project financing by component (US$ thousands)
      Component                     Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate               Percentage of Appraisal
                                  IDA          Govt         CoF           IDA            Govt         CoF       IDA           Govt     CoF
 I­Renforcement                  2,542.5       314.8                      2,368.3         420.6                      93          134
 Institutionnel
 II­Nutriton                     3,184.9       120.5                      1,971.0           35.5                     62            29
 Communautaire
 III­Microprojets                3,545.5         48.4                        446.0            4.0                    13              8
 IV­Mob.Sociale                  2,044.9         47.5                        178.3            7.5                      9           16
 V­EvaluationExter                  211.8         0.3                        196.5            0.1                    93            22
 ne
 Total Général                  11,530.0       532.0                      5,159.0         468.0                      45            88
Note: Appraisal estimates have been converted in US$ using the exchange rate at appraisal (July 07, 1998) of UM179. Actual estimates have been
converted in US$ using an average exchange rate for the duration of the project (from appraisal to closing on April 30, 2005) of 248.




                                                                      - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic analysis was conducted at the time of the Project appraisal or upon Project completion. Here
we do not make an attempt to reproduce the analysis but simply to put the Project costs and potential
benefits into perspective.

Costs. At MTR a rapid costing analysis estimated the cost per beneficiary at around US$ 7.60 per year in
urban centers.  28 Note that the cost, a lower bound of the total beneficiary cost as it does not include the
cost of training and supervision, which are normally included in similar exercises, does not differ
substantially form the cost of similar growth promotion activities.   29  However, the "innovation" of this
Project design was the combination of traditional growth promotion activities with micro-project incentives.
The benefits of the micro-projects in most cases did not accrue to participants to the CNC but at least they
should have functioned as incentives. For that reason, one should also include the cost of the micro-projects
to the total cost. As shown in the table below, the cost of micro-project per beneficiary is estimated at US$
9.6 per beneficiary, which would increase the total cost of the "innovative nutrition programs" to US$
                     30


17.2 per beneficiary, much higher than any other similar community nutrition program.

                       Table 8. Cost per Beneficiary of Micro-grant (113 Centers)
Total Financing of micro-grant                      UM 55,107,300
Total Contribution of Communities                   UM 6,114,671
Total Number of beneficiaries                       24,487
Cost per beneficiary                                UM 2,500
Cost per beneficiary (US$)                          UUS$ 9.6

Benefits. With respect to the benefits of the Project, if growth promotion activities were successful in
reducing malnutrition, benefits for the Mauritanians would be enormous. An extensive body of literature
has dealt with the implications of child malnutrition on human performance and child health and survival.
In particular, there is substantial evidence that malnutrition has potentially irreversible consequences on
growth attainment, morbidity, mortality, educational achievement, productivity and adult chronic diseases.
Addressing malnutrition and making use of the effective interventions that exist and have been implemented
in a few countries would translate into mortality rates that are far lower than current levels. For example,
reducing the prevalence of weight-for-age by 5 percentage points by 2005 could reduce child mortality by
about 30% and under five mortality by 13%.    31 At the same time, supplementing vitamin A twice a year to
all preschool children would reduce under-five mortality by 23%. Not malnourished, children would be
                                                                    32


half as vulnerable to diarrhea and respiratory infections.  33 They would be less exposed to morbidity in
general. If exposed to malaria, the severity of their episodes would be strongly diminished and they would
be less likely to die In individuals infected with HIV the morbidity rates would be much lower and the
                     34


probability of survival would be much higher if they were not wasted.     35Healthier and stronger, children
would be able to enter school at the right age and not miss years of educations. They would also be able to
attend school regularly. Their cognitive functions would not be diminished and their school performance
would improve. As a result, they would be more productive and more successful in their future job and   36


improve the performance and cost-effectiveness of the school system. If children were not chronically
malnourished, their height as adults would not be permanently reduced. Taller and healthier mothers
                                                                             37


would be less likely to deliver low birth children. Better weight at birth would in turn imply higher
probability of survival  38and lower probability of becoming stunted and of suffering cognitive and
neurological impairment. Finally, preventing low weight at birth also translates into large direct benefits for



                                                     - 25 -

the society, such as lower health costs and increased cognitive ability. Such savings are estimated to
amount, on average, to about US$580 per year.   39 40




Unfortunately, as discussed in previous sections, the Project was not associated with specific reduction in
child malnutrition, and in addition it was also much more expensive than community nutrition programs
which had similar objectives.




                                                     - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/31/1997
              09/30/1998

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/07/1998
              10/19/1998

 Supervision

              11/02/1999                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               S
                                             NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             NGO LIAISON OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              04/22/2000                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             NGO SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT SPECIAL
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              11/28/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL DEV.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FMS (1)
              04/09/2001                5    TEAM LEADER (1); SR              S               S
                                             NUTRITION SPECIALIS (1);
                                             FMS (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/11/2001                4    TTL, SR OPERATIONS OFF           S               S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FMS (1); SR
                                             NUTRITION SPECIALIS (1)
              05/29/2002                4    TEAM LEADER (1); SR              S               S
                                             NUTRITION SPECIALIS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FMS (CONSULTANT) (1)
              02/28/2003                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR         U               S
                                             NUTRITION SPECIALIS (1);
                                             SR. PROC. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/NUTRITION 1)
              05/18/2003                1    CONSULTANT/NUTRITION (I)                         S
              08/15/2003                3    TEAM LEADER (1); SENIOR          S               S
                                             NUTRITIONIST (1); LEAD P.
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (1)
              02/16/2004                5    SENIOR HEALTH SPECIALI           S



                                              - 27 -

                                                  (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  MANGEMENT SP. (1); LEAD
                                                  PUBLIC HEALTH SPE (1);
                                                  TEAM ASSISTANT (1); SR.
                                                  IMPLEMENTATION OFF (1)
               10/03/2004                     1   SR. IMPL. SPEC. (I)

 ICR
               03/03/2005                    5     SR IMPL. SPEC. (I),
                                                   ECONOMIST (I),
                                                   FINANCIAL MGT
                                                   SPEC.(I), PROC. SPEC. (I),
                                                   TEAM ASSISTANT (I)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                   79,989.00
  Supervision                                107.29                     206,420.29
  ICR                                         29.99                       65,337.04
  Total                                      137.28                     286,409.29
Data was not available for No. of Staff weeks for Identification/Preparation, Appraisal Negotiations as
well as for US$ Estimates for Identification/Preparation




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Community participation
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
NGOs/Community-based groups




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide-mémoire (World Bank) for:
     November 1999 (supervision)
     April 2000 (supervision)
     November 2000 (supervision)
     April 2001 (supervision)
     November 2001 (supervision)
     May 2002 (supervision)
     February 2003 (supervision)
     May 2003 (supervision)
     August 2003 (supervision)
     February 2004 (supervision)
     October 2004 (supervision)
     March 2005 (ICR)

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document "Islamic Republic of Mauritania: Nutrition, Food Security and
Social Mobilization", Report No. 18535-MAU.

Abdellah, M. M., 2002, Mission de Supervision dans les Wilayas du Hodh El Gharbi et de l'Assaba,
        Rapport de Mission, du 24 mars au 04 avril 2002, Nouakchott, 14 avril 2002.

Abdellah, M. M., 2002, Rapport de Mission de Nouadhibou, 16 et 17 mai 2002.

Alvesson, H. M., 2004, Lessons Learned from the SECALINE Project (1998-2003), Consultant Report.

Alvesson, H. M., 2005, A Qualitative Study on Beneficiaries' Perceptions of the Community Nutrition
        Project NUTRICOM in Mauritania, Consultant Report.

Barro, B.A. and Y. O. M'Khaitir, 2005, Evaluation de la Situation Concrète sur le Terrain des Besoins des
        Producteurs Affectés par le Péril Acridien en Matière de Relance Agricole et de Sécurité
        Alimentaire, Ministère du Développement Rural, de l'Hydraulique et de l'Environnement,
        Mauritanie.

Bendech, M.A., 2003, Consultant Report, Mission Nutrition, May 18-June 01, 2003, the World Bank.

Development Credit Agreement, Nutrition, Food Security, and Social Mobilization Project between the
        Islamic Republic of Mauritania and the International Development Association, May 17, 1999.

Direction de la Protection Sanitaire et Nutricom, 2004, Protocole d'Accord, Nouakchott.

Fiedler, J.L., 2003, A Cost Analysis of the Honduras Community-Based Integrated Child Care Program,
        AIN-C, HNP Discussion Paper, the World Bank.

Kosterman, K., 2004, Back to Office Report, Mauritania Supervision Nutricom (LIL) and Pre-Appraisal
        PRSCI, June 4-9, 2004.

Krieger, L., 2001, Trip Report: Information, Education, and Communication Component, Supervision Visit
        to Nouakchott (March 21-31, 2001).

Muller-Sibanda M., C. Rokx, E. Genovese, Z. Maalouf, 2004, Les Programmes de Nutrition à base
        communautaire - l'expérience au Sénégal et à Madagascar, Rapport d'un atelier de revue et
        apprentissage, Banque mondiale, Région Afrique, Département Développement Humain.

Nutricom et tous, 1999, Etude Ciblage, Nutricom, Mauritanie.



                                                   - 31 -

Nutricom, Rapport Préparatoire á la revue à mi-parcours du Projet de Nutrition Communautaire, de
        Sécurité Alimentaire et de Mobilisation Sociale (Taghdhia-Nutricom), octobre 2001.

Office National de la Statistique, 2001, Enquête Démographique et de Santé, 2000-2001.

Office National de la Statistique, 2001, Rapport D'Analyse des Résultats de l'Enquête (Partie Nutrition),
        par C. M. El Safed Ould Dehah, Mauritanie, octobre 2001.

Office National de la Statistique, 2005, Rapport Final d'Analyse des Résultats de l'Enquête sur le Suivi
        des Indicateurs de Nutrition (ESIN 2004), Mauritanie, février 2005.

Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper for the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, December 17-19, 2001.

République Islamique de Mauritanie, 2004, Projet de Lettre de Politique Nationale de Développement de la
        Nutrition.

Rokx, C., 2001, Technical note Mid-Term Review Mission, November 5-10, 2001, the World Bank.

Salif D., 2004, Rapport de diagnostic médical des enfants sponsorisés de l'ADP de Kiffa, Circonscription
        Sanitaire de Kiffa.

Secrétariat d'Etat à la Condition Féminine, 2004, Rapport d'Activités du 1er janvier au 31 décembre 2003,
        Nouakchott, janvier 2004.

Secrétariat d'Etat à la Condition Féminine, 2004, Suivi et Evaluation, Rapport Provisoire, Nouakchott, 1er
        Trimestre 2004, mai 2004.

Secrétariat d'Etat à la Condition Féminine, 2005, Projet de Nutrition Communautaire, Sécurité Alimentaire
        et Mobilisation Sociale (" Projet Taghdhia - Nutricom "), Rapport d'achèvement du Projet,
        ébauche #2, Nouakchott, mai 2005.

The World Bank, 1997, Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association to the
        Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Islamic
        Republic of Mauritania, May 21, 1997.

The World Bank, 2002, Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association to the
        Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Islamic
        Republic of Mauritania, May 6, 2002.

The World Bank, 2005, Fourth Review of Adaptable Lending, Volume I, Main Report, Draft, February 10,
        2005, Operations Policy and Country Services.

World Bank, 1999, Mauritania - Nutrition, Food Security, and Social Mobilization Project, Project
        Appraisal Document, 1999.

World Bank, 2001, Learning and Innovation Loan Guidelines for Completing the Proposal Document,
        Washington DC.

World Bank, 2004, Quality of Supervision Assessment (QAS6), Mauritania, Nutrition, Food Security, and
        Social Mobilization Project, September 20, 2004.

World Bank, Mauritania - Nutrition, Food Security, and Social Mobilization Project, Project Status
        Reports, Archived Versions, Sequences 1-15.




                                                  - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Beneficiaries's Perceptions of the Project

In order to gain some insight into the qualitative aspects of the nutrition intervention, particularly with
regard to the point of view of the beneficiaries, a consultancy was carried out which primarily aimed to:

·        Assess the quality of the messages that women have received and whether behavioral changes have
occurred.
·        Provide better understanding of the factors that determine success and the qualitative impact of the
Project in the intervention areas.

A total of 12 Community Nutrition Centers were visited and a total of 24 focus groups were conducted
with beneficiaries (both members and non-members of women's cooperatives) and grandmothers. The main
findings, which not already have been mentioned in the body of the ICR, are the following:

Defining and practicing the field of nutrition is an ongoing challenge. Project management has experienced
as a hindrance the fact that food distribution easily gains the attention of beneficiaries and policymakers,
particularly at the regional level. At the same time, the Project has defined itself as not working on "health"
because doing so would imply the provision of medical services.

Women generally have very limited access to information concerning all kinds of health concerns, but
expressed great interest in family planning and women's health separately from the issues of children's
growth. The CNC is the only site in many villages where health-related services are provided. It was often
suggested that linking nutrition services to basic health care would increase participation rates.

The understanding of the benefits of growth monitoring varied greatly. Some beneficiaries expressed an
interest in the regular weighing of their children while more women expressed that they went because they
were recommended to. Very few women knew which growth zone their child was in or its weight. The
Project has not promoted any ownership of the growth-monitoring card and it is kept at the CNC.
Beneficiaries and CNWs agreed on this practice at the same time as it was recognized that mothers keep the
child's vaccination card without major problems.

Mauritania is, relatively speaking, a "breastfeeding friendly" society in which the practice is recognized as
the best choice for newborn and infants up to around two years of age. This positive attitude towards
breastfeeding provides a solid basis for further efforts by the Project to promote nutritional messages and
concepts. Some restrictions do however apply, for example breastfeeding in public and the need of some
women to work outside the home when their children are under six months of age.

In general, colostrum is not perceived in the same unambiguous manner as breastfeeding, even though
change seems to be underway in this regard. The reasons for not giving colostrums are manifold, among
which the most often reported were its perceived lack of nutritious value, its limited quantity, that it is too
concentrated to digest, and that mothers can get exhausted giving it. Beneficiaries' estimate of how many
women give colostrums ranged between one-third and one-half of the women they knew. Women perceived
the question of colostrums as a health practice that is currently negotiated among doctors, CNWs,
grandmothers, and themselves--a position that is a first step toward normative and behavioral change.

The introduction of solid food is another area in which the Project is slowly promoting change. The
majority of women spoken to, recognize four months as the age at which infants can start eating solid food.
The Project recommendation of six months was widely known and, according to estimates by beneficiaries,



                                                     - 33 -

also increasing in practice. The most common reasons for starting on solids are concern that breast milk is
insufficient and the belief that there is no harm in starting at that age. Children born during the hot season
were considered to be in particular need of additional water. The advice and recipes on how to cook
porridge and other baby foods were initially received with great interest.

Women are very concerned about the health of their children and had many unanswered questions about
their growth and development. Information on breastfeeding and weaning foods inform women about how
to treat children under normal circumstances, rather than in situations of particular concern. Beneficiaries
also wanted information on actions to be taken when a child is not growing or developing even when
mothers have followed the advice, they have been given.

Several traditional preventive measures are practiced today in order to protect newborns from misfortune,
such as amulets against evil eyes or persons with bad intentions, amulets to protect against diarrhea
associated with teething, prayers of the "marabou" that are linked to the child, and various other activities.
The Project does not appear to have addressed the protective and preventive measures that women already
trust, and which could be built upon as a way of acknowledging that the objective of the new messages are
the same as traditional ones--namely, to increase the likelihood of a child's good health and survival.
Building a bridge to actual behavior is one way to apply culturally sensitive information through a
communications strategy.

Grandmothers are an important indirect target group with whom the Project has had contact through the
mobilization of women's cooperatives. Grandmothers are important in many respects that are relevant for
the Project: housing their daughters during birth, care giving when the grandchild is around one year old or
younger, breastfeeding the grandchild, and helping the daughter to become a member in the same
cooperative (if applicable). CNWs recognized the great influence that grandmothers have on child care
decisions, but have not taken advantage of the ways in which they could be integrated in ongoing activities.




                                                     - 34 -

Additional Annex 9. List of End Notes

1 PAD, page 2.
2 In the text in the PAD the target is a reduction of malnutrition with one third. In Annex 1of the PAD, the 30%
reduction is stated which the ICR will follow.
3 Proportion of total cost refers to costs estimated at appraisal.
4 The cooperatives could open a micro-project of their choice or a retail store. The latter found inspiration in the
UNICEF's boutiques mères enfant which sold food and non-food items, including weaning food and
micro-nutrient supplements following the UNICEF recommendations.
5 That said, it should be pointed out that the list included three activities which were only indirectly related to
nutrition counseling: i) identification of income generating activities; ii) assessment of cost and benefits of
micro-projects; iii) literacy training. This means that, according to the original design, women cooperatives could
have chosen only one of these latter three activities and still would have fulfilled the requirements of the
community nutrition component, without offering women any sort of counseling on nutrition.
6 Some modifications were made after MTR, in order to make the design more operational. Equal access to grants
for urban and rural centers was among the most important changes.
7It did so by entrusting the SECF the responsibility of community nutrition through women's cooperatives. The
project built on the lessons learnt from the IDA assisted Health and Population project (Cr. 2311- MAU) which
had given SECF the responsibility to implement field activities to benefit rural women and demonstrated SECF to
be a committed department, open to discussion and capable of actions in favor of women (source ­ PAD page 15).
8Rokx, Technical note, November 5-10, 2001.
9 Note that data on exclusive breastfeeding must be interpreted with caution: there seem to be a problem with the
definition as rates are extremely high compared to both national average and international standards. For more
details see discussion of Component 4 below.
10As argued by the regional nutritionists during the ICR workshop held in Mauritania on July 27th, 2005.
11The targeting issue was also raised at MTR (Rokx, 2001).
12The factors beneficiaries mentioned had affected their participation at the CNCs were: i) distance to the CNC, ii)
time burden especially because the growth monitoring and the cooking demonstrations were held on separate days
which meant they in principle should go to the center twice per month, iii) lack of new messages promoted, iv) the
disseminated messages were not perceived as essential to children's health, e.g. breastfeeding is the norm and the
difference between giving other foods at six months of age rather than at four months were not perceived as an
important difference, v) services limited to preventive services while curative also were needed; and vi) few
mobilization efforts by the CNW.
13 Unfortunately, no survey exists on the participation rate of cooperatives relative population, demographic
description or the socio-economic status of the cooperatives: data sources in the ICR are from the nutritionists,
project team, CNWs and beneficiaries themselves.
14 As explained during the ICR workshop held in Mauritania on July 27th, 2005.
15The primary target group is women who have young children (or soon will have) since that is when behavior
change can be effective. However, the evidence collected shows that some women members of the cooperatives are
over their reproductive age, as also explained by the senior nutritionist of the Project. Again, unfortunately we have
no comprehensive demographic study or basic data on cooperatives and participation rate.
16 Asia excludes Japan. Data from Lauer J.A. et al, 2004, Breastfeeding patterns and exposure to suboptimal
breastfeeding among children in developing countries: review and analysis of nationally representative surveys,
BMC Medicine, 2:26.
17 The World Bank, 2004.
181) - 4) Annex 1contains the formal performance indicators as presented in the PAD.
* marks added indicators by the ICR team and/or monitoring indicators of which some measure conditions
affecting malnutrition rates and others capture output from the Project.
19See Table 3 for this impact indicator per region.
20According to the latest DHS (2000-2001), only 28% of children 0-3 months and 9% of children 4-5 months are



                                                          - 35 -

exclusively breastfed. The big discrepancy in findings might be explained by the non-cultural specific formulation
of the questions in the impact study.
21See Table 4 for a proxy indicator per region, since data on profit margin is not available per CNC.
22The PIU instead sums up pregnant and lactating women and comes to a total of 17,325.
23Return on investment data is not yet available for 2004.
24 The exchange rate used for the actual estimate is the average exchange rate during the whole Project period
1US$ equals 247.7UM.
25 The exchange rate used is 1USD equals 247.7 UM. This is a calculated average rate for the whole Project
period.
26Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
27In particular UNDP and UNICEF.
28The estimate excludes training, development of IEC material and M&E considered investment costs rather than
management costs.
29Fiedler, 2003.
30Or US$ 2,083.8 per center.
31Pelletier and Frongillo, 2002.
32Beaton et al., 1993.
33Mc Guire (1996) reports that vitamin A deficient children can be two to four times more susceptible to
respiratory infections and twice more susceptible to diarrhea. Moreover, she estimates that undernourished children
can suffer a 10 to 45 percent increase in incidence of diarrhea (and a 30 to 55 percent increase in duration).
34Caulfield, L. et al., 2004.
35Piwoz and Salama, 2004.
36Horton and Ross, based on a survey of existing studies, estimate that one-half of a standard deviation decrease in
scores on various tests of cognitive achievements is associated with a 4% decrease in hourly earnings (Horton and
Ross, 2003).
37Martorell, 1990.
38 It is estimated that low birth weight infants are 40% more likely to die in the neonatal period than their normal
weight counterpart (Berhman et al., 2004).
39Alderman et al., 2004.
40 Long time ago, Mc Guire and Austin (1987) estimated that undernutrition contributed to more than 1.1. billion
days of illness per year worldwide.




                                                       - 36 -

Additional Annex 10. IBRD Map No.29621




                                      - 37 -

- 38 -

                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 29621

    18°                16°                      14°                   12°                   10°               ATLANTIC      Former
                                                                                                                            Spanish                                  ALGERIA
                                                                                                                OCEAN       Sahara
                          MAURITANIA
       RURAL MOBILIZATION PROGRAM                                                                                             MAURITANIA
30°                 FOR NUTRITION                                                                      30°                 Nouakchott
                                                                                                                                                               M A L I

      AREAS OF INTERVENTION - PROTOTYPE 1
                                                                                                                      SENEGAL                                                  NIGER
                                                                                                               THE
                   RURAL FLUVIAL REGIONS                                                                     GAMBIA                                           BURKINA               NIGERIA
                   OTHER RURAL NON-FLUVIAL REGIONS                                                             GUINEA-                                           FASO
                                                                                  MOROCCO                       BISSAU         GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                           TOGBENIN
                   INTERVENTION AREAS                                                                                                                           GHANA
                                                                                                                                                CÔTE D'IVOIRE                 O
28°                                                                                                    28°
                   RADIO TOWERS
                                                                                                                      8°                                 6°
                   SELECTED TOWNS

                   REGION CAPITALS

                   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                     ALGERIA
                   REGION BOUNDARIES

                   INTERNATIONAL
26°                BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                    26°
                                                                                                 Aïn Ben Tili

                                                                                                                                            Chegga
   0       100      200        300                                           Bîr Mogreïn


            KILOMETERS                       F O R M E R
                                             S PA N I S H                                    T I R I S
                                             S A H A R A
24°                                                                                     Z E M M O U R                                                                            24°




                                                                  Zouérat

                                                          Fdérik                                                                                                MALI
                                                                         Tourîne

22°                                                            Touâjîl                                                                                                           22°



                     Boû         Tmeïmîchât                 Choûm
   Nouâdhibou      Lanouâr
                                                                            Ouadâne

             DAKHLET                                 Atâr                          A D R A R
          NOUADHIBOU                                                Chinguetti
                              INCHIRI
20°                                                          Oujeft                                                                                                              20°
                                  Akjoujt                                                                                   HODH ECH
         Nouâmghâr


                                                                                    T A G A N T                               CHARGUI

                                     Aguilâl Faï       Tamassoumît
                                                                              Tidjikja              Tîchît


18°      NOUAKCHOTT            T R A R Z A                                                                                                                                       18°

                                                      Cangarâfa    Moudjéria
                              Boutilimit      Magta Lahjar
                                                                                                                                          Oualâta
  ATLANTIC                                          BRAKNA                             Tâmchekket

                                   Rkîz
   OCEAN           Mederdra                        Aleg
                       Rosso                                                            HODH
                                                Bogué              ASSABA
                                                                              Kiffa                Ayoûn                                Néma
                                       Senegal             Mônguel                         EL      el Atroûs
                                               R.       GORGOLMbout      Koûroudjél    GHARBI                                    Amourj
                                                                                                               Timbedgha
16°                                              Kaédi                                                                                               Bassikounou                 16°
                                                          Sivé                Kankossa       Kobenni
                                                            Maghama                                             Djiguéni
                                                                                             Touil

                                                                   GUIDIMAKA
                                                                       Sélibabi                                      MALI
                              SENEGAL                     Gouraye

                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
14° 18°                16°                      14°                   12°                   10°               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                      14°

                                                                                                                                                                        MARCH 1999

