Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18535-MAU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LENDING CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION (US$ 4.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
NUTRITION, FOOD SECURITY AND SOCIAL MOBILIZATION
PROJECT
February 16, 1999
Human Development II
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange rate effective as of July 13, 1998)
Currency Unit = UM
I UM - US$O.00504
US$1 - 198.150 UM
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC       - Administrative Council of Cooperatives
CREN      - Centre de R&cuperation et d'Education Nutritionnelle (Rehabilitation center)
CPF       - Centre de Promotion Fiminine (Center for the Promotion of Women)
DPS       - Direction de la Protection sanitaire (DPS)
DRASS   - Direction Regionale de I 'Action Socio-Sanitaire (Regional Health Directorate)
ENSP      - Ecole Nationale de la Sant Publique (National School of Public Health)
EPI       - Extended Program of Immunization
EU        - European Union
FS        - Food Security
GDP       - Gross Domestic Product
GIE       - Groupe dInterit Economique (Small Economic Interest Group)
GOM       - Government of Mauritania
GTZ       - German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HP        - Communal Health Post
HSIP        Health Sector IPvestment Program
ICB       - Intemational Competitive Bidding
IIDD      - Iodine Deficiency Disorder
IMR       - Infant Mortality Rate
MAED    - Ministere des Affaires Economiques et du D&veloppement (Ministry of Economy)
MCH       - Maternal and Child Health
M&E       - Monitoring and Evaluation
MMR       - Maternal Mortality Rate
MOHSA   - Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
MOP       - Ministry of Planning
MPE       - Malnutrition Proteino-inergetique
MSAS        Ministere de la Santa et des Affaires Sociales
ONS       -Office National de la Statistique (National Statistical Office)
PASS      - Projet d'appui au secteur de la sanut (HSIP)
PHC       - Primary Health Care
RAINSA   -Reseau Africain des Intervenants en Nutrition et S&curite Alimentaire
RH        - Regional Hospital
SECF      - Secretariat d'Etat a la Condition Feminine
(Executive State Secretariat for the Promotion of Women)
SBD)      - Standard Bidding Documents
SM        - Social Mobilization
TSS       - Techniciens superieurs de santd (Senior Health Technicians)
UGP       -Unite de Gestion du Projet (Project Management Unit)
UM        - UnitJ monitaire (Ouguiya)
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development
WDR       - World Development Report
Vice President             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director           Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager             Nicholas R. Burnett
Task Team Leader           Thierry A. Brun



i
THLE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Nutrition, Food Security and Social Mobilization Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ....................................2
2. Background ................................................................3
B. Strategic Context ................................................................4
1. Sector-related  Country  Assistance Strategy ................................................................ 4
2. Main  Sector issues and  Government strategy ................................................................5
3. NGO  Capacity Building ................................................................6
C. Project Description Summary ................................................................7
1. Prototypes and components ..........................................................7
2. Institutional reforms supported by the project .........................................................     11
3. Benefits and target population .........................................................                                           12
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .........................................................  12
D. Project Rationale ...............................................................                                                              13
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ............................................ 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 14
3. Lessons learned  and reflected  in proposed project design ........................................... 15
4. Indication  of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................... 15
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project ............................................................... 15
E. Summary Project Analyses ...............................................................                                                       16
1. Financial Assessment ...............................................................                                               16
2. Technical Assessment ...............................................................                                               16
3. Institutional Assessment ...............................................................                                           17
4. Social Assessment ...............................................................                                                  17
5. Environm ental Assessment                                              ............................................................... 17
6. Participatory Approach ...............................................................                                             18
F. Sustainability and Risks ...............................................................                                                       18
1. Sustainability ...............................................................                                                     18
2. Critical risks ...............................................................                                                     19
G. Main Credit Conditions ...............................................................                                                         20
H. Compliance with Bank Policies ...............................................................                                                  20



Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description.
Annex 3.  Nutritional situation
Annex 4.  Outline of the Implementation Manual
Annex 5.  Budget
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7.  Institutional Organization
Annex 8.  Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 9.  The Loan Administrative Change Initiative Calendar
Annex 10. Status of Bank Group Operations in Mauritania
Annex 11. Mauritania, "Country at a Glance"
Maps      IBRD 29621 & 29624
This Project Appraisal Document is based on an Appraisal Mission from October 11 to 18, 1998,
led by Thierry A. Brun, Sr. Food Security and Nutrition Specialist, AFTH3, and including:
Aboubacar Magassouba, Magaye Gaye, Salamata Bal, Souleymane Sow, Ahmedou Ould Hamed,
Cheikh Mohamed El Hafed Ould Dehah, Amadou Oumar Ba and Gildas Royet. LUopold
Fakambi, Jean Delion, Sergiu Luculescu (Cluster Leader), Maty Mint Boide, Mohamed Ould
Sid'Ahmed Ould Bedda, Aicha Mint Ghadour, Hetoutou Mint Abdoullah, Fatimetou Mint
Lekhlifa, Gisele Simard, N'Diawar Kane, Sall Aliou Mamadou, and Bruno Lamarche participated
in previous missions. Jean Mazurelle was the Resident Representative of the Bank in Mauritania.
Chris Blanchard and Myrina McCullough were the principal assistants for this project in
Washington.
The preparation team would like to pay a special tribute to Gisele Simard, UNDP and World
Bank Consultant who died in April 1998 during project preparation. She inspired all members of
the team.



1
Mauritania Nutrition, Food Security and Social Mobilization
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: February 16, 1999                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Thierry A. Brun
Country Manager/Director: Hasan Tuluy                   Sector Manager/Director: Nicholas Burnett
Project ID: MR-PE-55003   Sector: Pop. Health & Nutrition    Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes   [ ]  No
Project Financing Data                   [  Loan       [X] Credit        [  Guarantee           ] Other [Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 4.9 million / SDR 3.6 million
Proposed terms:                           [ ]   Multi-currency     [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          [xl  Standard Variable   [   Fixed                []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                Local               Foreign             Total
Government                                                     0.3                    0                 0.3
Co-financiers                                                   0                     0                 0
IDA                                                            2.9                   2.0                4.9
Beneficiary contribution                                       0.1                    0                 0.1
3.3                  2.0                5.3
Total
Borrower: Government of Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency: Secretariat d'Etat a la Condition fiminine
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        1999      2000         2001       2002         2003
Annual     0.2         1.8         2.0        0.9           *
Cumulative     0.2.       2.0          4.0       4.9
* The final year of the project will entail no activities or costs; it accommodates the "one-year later" survey, financed by other funds.
For Guarantees: NA                                 []   Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage: NA
Project sponsor: NA
Nature of underlying financing: NA
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$): 4.9 million equivalent
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?: NA             [      Yes               []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 3.0 years Expected effectiveness date: 05/15/1999   Expected closing date: 10/31/2003



2
A.    Project Development Objective
The project objective is to evaluate the effectiveness of specific activities (or components)
combined into two different "prototypes" of programs, one urban and one rural, to reduce in a
measurable way child malnutrition in Mauritania. The components include: growth monitoring of
children (0-3 years), nutritional supplements to pregnant women and lactating mothers, income
generating activities, micro-grants, IEC and social mobilization. The rural "prototype" will be
implemented mainly through existing women's cooperatives working closely with village health
workers and NGOs. The urban "prototype" will be based on Community Nutrition Centers
managed by NGOs and/or local residents of poor peri-urban districts. Because it is based on
community level initiatives, the project's name will be Nutricom (from Nutrition
communautaire), and for national clarity it will be called Taghdhia (nutrition in Arabic). In
accordance with the objectives of a Learning and Innovation loan (LIL), the "prototypes" are
designed to be cost-effective and suitable for subsequent scaling up to the national level. The
LIL will implement and test a mix of components (for the rural and for the urban population) to
determine the most cost effective strategy for a future national nutrition project. The innovative
feature of the project is to rely on the large network of women's cooperatives to reduce the high
prevalence of child malnutrition in an effective way. It builds on the successful achievements of
the component Femmes et Developpement (FD), included in the IDA-assisted Health and
Population Project (PSP) which has demonstrated the capacity of the recently created Executive
Secretariat for the Promotion of Women (Secretariat d'Etat a la Condition Feminine) SECF to
implement field activities for the benefit of rural women.
The project supports the Mauritania National Action Plan for Nutrition and the National Poverty
Reduction Strategy. The development objective is to improve the nutritional status of mothers and
children, to promote the physical development of children under six years of age, and to increase
the income of participating parents. The assessment of child nutrition, health and growth, and the
reduction in micro-nutrient deficiencies such as iron deficiency anemia in participating villages,
will be used as key indicators of success. The National Statistical Office (Office National de la
Statistique) will conduct a base-line survey in participating villages and a final evaluation at the
end of the three-year implementation period. The project will be evaluated based on the following
indicators: (1) reduced prevalence of underweight children aged 6 months to two years by one-
third of the 1998/1999 baseline levels in the targeted pilot project villages; (2) reduced prevalence
of 30% of main micro-nutrient deficiencies (iron, iodine and Vitamin A) as assessed by medical
examination and biological tests (hemoglobin, hematocrit, urinary excretion of iodine, etc.) in
intervention villages; (3) good performances of at least 20 micro-projects or one third of the
micro-projects funded in each of the five target regions (Wilayas); (4) training of at least ten
competent "female technicians" providing satisfactory services in cooperative micro-projects and
nutrition interventions in each targeted district. If the above criteria are met, extension at national
level under the present format will be sought. If most or all components are not successful, other
techniques will be sought for the effective reduction of malnutrition. If a significant part of the
components are successful a "recombination" of successful components could be submitted by
the SECF for further funding .



3
Background
The Government is firmly committed to reducing malnutrition, an effort this project would
strengthen. The "Secretariat d'Etat a la Condition Feminine " (SECF) is a recently created
agency (1992) which has demonstrated so far good performances. It is now determined to
undertake a program against child malnutrition but would like to experiment several strategies for
the following reasons:
Since the 1950's a number of different approaches have been tested to reduce child malnutrition
in West Africa. The most common strategy was based on early detection of cases by maternal
and child health centers followed by nutrition education of the mothers who presented children of
low weight for age. This has not been very effective in the vast majority of the cases. The main
reasons are: (a) the inadequate design and implementation of the education programs for mothers;
(b) the inability of mothers to implement the recommendations in the absence of an increased
income or production; and (c) the lack of access to clean water, health and social services which
have a synergistic effect on nutritional status of children. Other strategies have included some
incentives for mothers to attend nutrition education sessions, demonstrations on local weaning
foods and principles of hygiene. The incentives used were the distribution of supplementary food
to the mothers in the hope that part of this additional free food supply would translate into
increased food consumption of the targeted child. Again, this technique, used in isolation, has not
given the expected results in most cases and has not been sustainable. There is strong evidence
that microgrants are an effective way to promote both better income and better household feeding
pattems. There is still however a fair amount of controversy concerning the appropriate approach.
Among the techniques that seem to have a sustainable and positive impact on the reduction of
malnutrition are different combinations of (a) mobilization of communities, (b) incentives
resulting from increased income or increased production and (c) improved education in the
nutritional needs and care of children. It also appears that the combination of mobilization,
incentives, increased income/production and education has to be tailor-made for each community.
At the heart of the success and sustainability lies the ability of the program to trigger participation
and ownership from the targeted communities.
Consequently, the SECF intends to work in close cooperation with the major institutions in
Mauritania which have already some experience in the prevention or treatment of child
malnutrition, mainly the Service de Nutrition of the Direction de la Protection Sanitaire (DPS) of
the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, UNICEF and NGOs such as World Vision, Terres des
Hommes, Doulos, etc. Other NGOs, both national and international will also be invited to
participate. In this cooperative pilot program it will test the effectiveness of the combination of
activities against the determining factors mentioned above. The SECF plans to build up its own
capacity to implement such programs through its network of women's cooperatives. There are
over 1,200 women's cooperatives grouping more than 74,000 women, including a large number
from isolated and poor rural districts. Their activities include small trade, handicraft, food
processing and emergency food distribution. SECF will strengthen its regional offices in the
wilayas and provide technical training to female members of cooperatives. These "technicians"
will in turn assist women's cooperatives to successfully implement micro-projects and nutrition
interventions.
At variance with a "pilot project," which is usually designed to experiment on a small-scale one
single "prototype," this LIL intends to compare combinations of different techniques: the first
one, in a poor rural environment, is based on the assumption that increasing the income is a
necessary and an essential component, the second is based primarily on education, social
mobilization and better access to social services in an urban setting. Both are based on close
support and assistance to the communities by a voluntary organization, or "sponsor," such as an



4
NGO or a private Groupement d 'Interet Economique or GIE. Both will mobilize available local
expertise for the identification and implementation of all interventions. The two "prototypes"
will use, in addition, standard nutrition intervention techniques such as growth monitoring of
children, nutrition education of mothers, nutritional supplements, promotion of local weaning
foods, oral re-hydration against diarrhea, micro-nutrients supplementation and the promotion of
breastfeeding. This will be conducted in close cooperation with the nearest health posts and
health centers. In essence, the project will provide support to women's cooperatives which can
demonstrate their commitment to the reduction of malnutrition.
Justification for the use of a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)
The experimental approach and required flexibility of this pilot project fits nicely into the LIL
concept. Elements of the design of the prototypes will need to be modified as they unfold, and a
LIL appears more appropriate for such requirements. The project's design would contain several
innovative features. Being demand-driven, the project needs to be able to respond to the needs
expressed by women's cooperatives and their sponsor NGOs. Seminars at local levels will be
used to promote participation from all sectoral services (school teachers, extension agents).
Though the Bank has been involved in preparing and implementing nutrition projects in other
countries, Nutricom would be the Bank's first project specifically focusing women's cooperatives
and malnutrition in a Sahelian country.
The SECF, a recently created State Secretariat, needs to enhance its own planning and
management capacity before it can undertake a national program to reduce the prevalence of
malnutrition on the whole territory. A LIL would provide the necessary exposure and
responsibilities to the staff of the SECF before it is ready to launch campaigns on a national
scale. It will also give the SECF the time to elaborate on a pilot scale the educational material,
the computer monitoring tools and prepare the advocacy strategies adapted to the country. By the
end of the three year period, the SECF expects to determine also the most cost-effective ways to
combine the different instruments mentioned above to reduce the incidence of malnutrition and
provide decision makers estimates of the investments which would be required to reach specific
goals at national level.
B.    Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported
by the project
Date of last CAS: May 21, 1997
Report Number 16595
(a)    The reduction of child malnutrition is one of the most reliable indicators of the reduction
of poverty. The reduction of poverty is in turn the primary mandate of the Bank. The CAS
specifically mentions, among its strategic elements: (a) poverty reduction; (b) increase of human
capital; and (c) reduction of child malnutrition. Moreover, the proposed project will also
contribute to other CAS areas of intervention such as development of the rural sector,
modernization of the public sector and gender supporting activities. All these elements are fully
consistent with GOM policy for the health, agriculture, gender and education sector and with the
social and economic objectives.
(b)   During the last five years, MSAS has pursued a staff deploymentlredeployment policy
and an improved training program of health personnel, and in particular of staff working in



5
referral hospitals and health centers. Although the health sector policy emphasizes prevention,
preventive activities represent only 20% of the cost of services provided by the public sector.
The introduction of cost recovery has contributed to this situation by creating incentives for
providing curative rather than preventive services. Women's cooperatives and associations could
contribute significantly to an early identification of child malnutrition cases and treat them
preventively, thereby avoiding full medical attention. Since malnutrition is not caused primarily
by factors responsive to health interventions, women's organizations can be a very legitimate
source of assistance in stemming it. Rates of malnutrition are not identical in all districts, so
targeted measures are needed to reach the most deprived segments of the population. Few on-
going programs have such activities.
2.    Main Sector Issues and Government strategy
(a)    Low nutritional status of large segments of the population. The diet of a large
portion of the population of Mauritania is monotonous, insufficient in energy and poor in
essential nutrients. Additional information is provided in Annex 4. Specific deficiencies
including iron, iodine, vitamin A and C are usually associated to this type of diet, resulting
in clinical deficiency diseases affecting primarily children and women. Marine resources
could be used much more effectively to improve the diet of the population and reduce the
severity of child malnutrition.
(b)    Food deficit andfood insecurity. In addition to chronic food shortages, there are
large regional disparities in Mauritania and marked seasonal fluctuations in food
availability, resulting in severe food restrictions for some groups of inhabitants during
certain years. At times (such as in 1996 and 97) food aid has contributed from 5 % to 20 %
of grain imports to compensate for poor harvests and food deficits among low-income
groups.
(c)    Protein-energy malnutrition. High prevalence of growth retardation is common
among children, reflecting moderate to severe chronic malnutrition. A study conducted in
1991 in four regions of the country (Assaba, Gorgol, Tagant and Nouakchott) showed that
almost half (49 %) of the children suffered from some degree of protein-energy
malnutrition.
(d)   Iron deficiency and parasitic infestation. In spite of the rather good availability of
fish along the coast and of meat, anemia affects a large number of women because of a
poor absorption of iron along with parasitic infestations (e.g. malaria).
(e)   Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD). Iodine deficiency, which affects more than
30% of the population in certain regions, is known to impair learning ability of children and
reproductive functions in women. UNICEF has already provided significant support for
salt iodination and campaigns to promote the consumption of iodized salt. The proposed
project will support UNICEF initiatives in this field.
Vitamin A def ciency.  Severe vitamin A (retinol) deficiency is the leading cause
of blindness among children, and night blindness occurs at the end of the dry season among
children and pregnant women. The prevalence of blindness among children has been
estimated at more than 1% suggesting a significant prevalence of vitamin A deficiency and
very low levels of beta-carotene consumption.
(g)    Training of the "A uxiliaires de Nutrition. " The MSAS can count on approximately
493 "Agents de sante communautaires " (May 1998) in villages of more than 300



6
inhabitants. These are generally mature women from the community who have received
45 days of training and have learned the use of ten essential drugs. In addition there are 84
"Auxiliaires de Nutrition " of which 44 are 'itinerantes, " that is, not assigned permanently
to any specific location. The project will provide training, equipment and cooperative work
agreements to MSAS-linked structures in targeted districts.
(h) An emerging National Nutrition policy. Presently the elaboration of a national nutrition
strategy is the responsibility of the National Committee on Nutrition (CNN), which is
placed under the Ministry for Planning (Direction des Resources Humaines, DRH). It has
been created to help a) assess the relevance and effectiveness of nutrition intervention
techniques; b) explore other intervention strategies as recommended by international
consultative groups; and c) design coordinated set of actions to reduce effectively the
prevalence of major nutritional disorders in association with anti-poverty programs. The
Ministries concerned are the Ministry for Economic Affairs and Development, the Ministry
of Health and Social Affairs and their decentralized structures, hospitals and primary local
health centers; the Commissariat aux Droits de l 'Homme a la lutte contre la Pauvrete et a
la Reinsertion; the Ministry of Agriculture and its decentralized staff, and more recently the
SECF and its network of women's cooperatives.
The Government needs a stronger concerted national nutrition policy, a set of clear
priorities and firm attribution of institutional responsibilities for the implementation of an
agreed action plan. It is therefore proposed to incorporate a capacity building component in
the proposed project to upgrade the expertise of the SECF in nutrition interventions.
However, capacity building will be mostly done through "hands-on training" as the largest
part of the funds will be spent serving poor communities. On the basis of the pilot nutrition
program "Nutricom" and other on-going activities the GOM will test the effectiveness of
strategies to reduce the prevalence of nutritional deficiency disorders and contribute to the
design of a better national nutrition strategy.
(i) Institutional and operational weakness of NGOs.
National and international NGOs are present only in a small portion of the territory. They have
limited geographical area of interventions and low program implementation capacity. Many of
them have ambitious but vague programs. They often lack permanent and specialized staff.
NGO Capacity Building
In the social sector, civil society has gradually emerged as a significant player, and for the
reduction of mother and child malnutrition, the GOM has been open to NGO assistance. A
number of religious and charitable organizations have been actively engaged in this field and are
diversifying their activities. The social and political climate is therefore favorable to a gradual
expansion of the role of civil society and better partnership with Government agencies. The Bank
will continue to assist the GOM to upgrade the qualification of NGOs. Several Ministries are
issuing official certificates of registration to professional associations identified as "Groupement
d'Interet Economique" (GIE) or Small Economic Interest Groups. In many circumstances these
GIEs can act as microenterprises to sign a service contract with a public or private agency in their
area of expertise. The design of the proposed project has been carried out in a participatory
manner, with the involvement of Government officials, NGOs, and donors. The Secretariat
d'Etat a la Condition Feminine was particularly active in encouraging participation of NGOs. It
is therefore anticipated that this "ouverture" to incoming new actors in the social sector will
continue through the project and allow for a more effective use of many talents and creative
initiatives from voluntary organizations in the sector.



7
C.    Project Description Summary
1.    Prototypes and components
Prototypes and Components             Category            Cost Incl.    % of
Contingencies  Total
(US$M)
(a) Community Nutrition Program    Capacity building             1.0        20
(b) Micro-projects              Microgrants, Small Equipment     1.9        39
(c) Social Mobilization / Rural radio  IEC, Capacity building    0.9        18
(d) External Evaluation         Capacity building                0.3        7
(e) Institutional capacity building    Capacity building, Project  0.8      16
Implementation
Total                 4.9       100
Two different "prototypes," each including several components are summarized below and
described in more detail in Annex 2. In both "prototypes," young children (0-3 years), pregnant
women (last trimester), and lactating mothers (0-6 months) targeted by women's cooperatives,
associations or Community Nutrition Centers (CNC) in target districts will be the main
beneficiaries. They will be selected according to specific criteria in the three poorest Wilayas of
the country as identified by the ONS in the Poverty profile (1996): Assaba, Gorgol, Hodh-El-
Gharbi and in the poorest neighborhoods in periurban areas of two largest cities: Nouakchott and
Nouadhibou.
The activities of the Community Nutrition Training Center (Centre de Formation en Nutrition
Communautaire - CFNC) will be expanded and strengthened in Nouakchott. It will support
primarily the implementation of community-based nutritional activities and action-research in the
area of nutrition.
(a)   First "prototype": Cooperative mobilization and rural radio for nutrition
This first "prototype" addresses targeted rural areas, exposed to drought and food shortages,
where access to social services is inadequate and income particularly low. It would be
implemented through those women's cooperatives and associations which can demonstrate their
genuine intention to reduce the rate of malnutrition in their communities. There are over 1,200
women's cooperatives all over Mauritania, grouping some 74,000 women. Slightly more than
10% of the existing cooperatives (140 out of 1,200) would be selected over the three-year period
to participate in the project. Forty-five cooperatives would start implementing their contracts
during the first year and a total of 140 contracts are expected to be completed over the three-year
period.
(b)   Nutrition counseling and intervention component
In exchange for SECF/NGO assistance, rural women's cooperatives and associations interested in
participating in the pilot program will have to organize with the nearest health post, health center
or nutrition rehabilitation center (Centre de recuperation nutritionnelle or CREN) one or more of
the following tasks to be conducted on a monthly basis:



8
- Growth monitoring of children 0-5 years
- Use of locally made cereal-pulses mixed flour as weaning food
- Oral rehydration against diarrhea
- Promotion of exclusive breast feeding until 5 months
- Reduction of parasite infestation through hygiene, mosquito nets and deworming
- Reduction of iron deficiency and folate deficiency by supplementation
- Reduction of iodine deficiency disorders by iodized salt
- Reduction of vitamin A deficiency by supplementation
- Referral of most severe cases to nearest health post, health center or nutrition
rehabilitation centers (Centre de recuperation nutritionnelle or CREN)
- Group discussion of causes of malnutrition
- Identification of income generating activities
- Assessment of cost and benefits of micro-projects
- Literacy training.
(c)    Micro-project Component
Each participating cooperative will be eligible to receive a small grant and some equipment to
launch a "micro-project" of its own choice. Eligible cooperatives will be asked to mobilize 10%
of the amount of the total grant they will receive. The sponsor NGO or GIE will help the
cooperative to prepare the documents to be submitted to the SECF regional office and technical
committees.
Cooperatives will be encouraged to incorporate gradually some of the above activities into their
program. This will be assisted and phased according to the absorptive capacity of each
participating cooperative. The SECF will develop with MSAS, UNICEF, WHO, FAO and NGOs
training programs for each of the topics listed above.
The SECF central team, the "Unite de Gestion du Projet" or UGP will delegate to SECF district
regional offices and local institutions a large part of the identification, implementation and
supervision work. At provincial (Wilayas) and district (Moughataa) levels respectively a small
intersectoral committee (Comite Regional de Concertation) headed by the corresponding (Wali
and Hakem) Government representative will review and make recommendations for project
approval by SECF. Cost for the "nutrition component" of Nutricom is estimated at U.S.$
864,000 of which two thirds would be "rural" and one third "urban".
"Female technicians " selectedfrom cooperatives: Training of participating NGOs, GIEs and
"female technicians" selected from cooperatives in all pertinent fields will be organized mostly
by the UGP at central level. "Trainers" will be selected from existing NGOs, professional
associations, public technical services, the private sector and the University.
Training in microfinance: After the micro-project has been implemented and if successful,
women will be encouraged to save part of the profits and reinvest them. Some women's
cooperatives might want to use their savings as a "revolving fund". The project will assist
women's cooperatives to organize village banks using their savings.
If beneficiaries do not demonstrate dedication and effectiveness in using the equipment and
reducing mother and child malnutrition, the availability of further assistance could be restricted or
suspended. The value added and innovative feature of the present approach is to link the
assistance received from the SECF to the performances in reducing rates of malnutrition in the
community. Costs of the micro-project component are estimated at US$ 1,600,000.



9
Harmonization with microcredit: Microgrants made to cooperatives under the present project
would have to be made under conditions which are not detrimental to existing and future
microcredit schemes. Cooperative and consultative arrangements have been discussed both with
existing credit organizations and training/extension services which could provide the required
advisory services to women's cooperatives. Nutricom's Implementation Manual will be based on
a detailed review of the existing microgrants and micro-project schemes and would incorporate
criteria compatible with the existing credit scheme.
(d)   Social Mobilization and Rural Radio
Poor rural and urban women, as well as the general public, need to be aware of the project, its
benefits, as well as their commitment to nutritional activities and related obligations. Information
and sensitization activities would be undertaken throughout project implementation. Use of the
following media would be envisaged: radio broadcasts (nutrition and health education) television
broadcasts and information brochures.
UNICEF is planning to renovate and extend the coverage of the rural radio operating from
Barkeol. An agreement would be signed by UNICEF with SECF to indicate respective duties and
responsibilities. Nutricom will fund the creation of another broadcasting station in Aioun as well
as supporting equipment, supplies and operating costs. Costs of the social mobilization
component are estimated at US$ 800,000 of which US$ 350,000 is for the creation of the new
broadcasting station in Aioun (Hodh El Gharbi).
(e)    Second Prototype: Mobilization and urban integration for nutrition
This second "prototype" is based on the assumption that urban malnutrition is caused by a
combination of factors resulting from poverty, ignorance and poor adaptation to the urban
environment. It is further hypothesized that education, mobilization and limited nutritional and
social assistance could drastically reduce urban malnutrition. The second "prototype" of
Nutricom intends to address more specifically this transition to an urban environment in order to
restore adequate nutritional conditions by a better use of available resources, improve the
nutritional status of mothers and children and the development of children under three years of
age. It will rely primarily on existing urban district organizations such as the "Community
Nutrition Centers" (CNC) managed by NGOs to implement the activities listed in (a). The
funding of these centers by the project would be demand-driven, and they would be opened in
vacant or rented facilities by neighborhood associations. They would be staffed by local district
associations trained and equipped through the project. Each "comite de quartier" interested in
participating would select a management group (MG) which would be supervised by a nutrition-
qualified NGO and senior district community members. They would adopt similar management
rules as the ones set between UNICEF and the urban community of Nouadhibou. As part of the
"P6les de developpement" initiative conducted with UNICEF support, nutrition centers have been
opened in poor urban districts.
Unlike the rural "prototype," the urban prototype would place the emphasis of its activities in the
rehabilitation of moderately malnourished children through: (a) systematic weighing of children;
(b) supplementary feeding (dry rations or on-site feeding) of malnourished children, pregnant
(last trimester) and lactating women (babies over 6 months); and (c) the enhancement of the
access of the poor to existing urban services. Since the main concern of this segment of the
population is to find means to increase their cash income, the project would also offer advisory
services based on demonstrations of successful initiatives. Under specific conditions specified in
the implementation manual, small grants would be made available for micro-projects. This
would be conducted in close cooperation with existing saving-credit organizations promoted by



10
the Bank, UNDP, UNICEF and bilateral organizations. Cooperation with the project "Poverty
reduction" of African Development Bank (AfDB), PROCAPEC and AMINA Initiative will also
be promoted in the area of microcredit.
(f)    Selection of NGOs
In order to ensure a rapid start of project activities, a preliminary NGO identification and
selection process was begun during project preparation. Nine interested national and
international NGOs were pre-selected based on criteria of experience and reputation as being
"bona fide" NGOs, and information on project objectives and strategy were given to the national
Association of NGOs. NGOs selected during the course of the project would enjoy a large
autonomy in conducting their field activities in support of the urban groups. Financing to support
the local development initiatives around Urban Nutrition Centers would be made available to
them on the basis of a formal agreement signed with the project specifying the rights and
obligation of each party and in accordance with an agreed work program and budget
(g)    Monitoring
Project monitoring would be the primary responsibility of the SECF, including its regional
offices. To this end, it would develop and apply a computerized management information system.
Details on the Monitoring and Evaluation component are given in Annex 8. The regional offices
would prepare short monthly district implementation progress reports which would be
summarized by the SECF into monthly financial and implementation monitoring reports. On a
quarterly basis, the SECF would prepare a more detailed situation analysis for submission to the
Commissariat d'Etat aux Droits de l'Homme, a la Lutte contre la Pauvrete et a la Reinsertion
(CEDLHLPR) and IDA.
(h) Evaluation
External project evaluation would be the primary responsibility of the "Office National de la
Statistique " (ONS) and the Commissariat d'Etat aux Droits de I 'Homme, ai la Lutte contre la
Pauvrete et a la Reinsertion. The ONS, which is part of the MAED, has demonstrated its capacity
for independent data collection and analysis during the preparation of the Poverty Profile of
Mauritania.
During the life of the project, three external evaluations, one baseline, one "project completion"
(at three years) and one "after one year of completion", would be funded by the project. All
three evaluations would analyze: (a) the achievements in project implementation; (b) the
nutritional impact on participating children and women and host communities; and (c) the
appropriateness of the institutional arrangements and administrative mechanisms. Both
"intervention" villages and "control " villages would be included. Best performers would be
compared to the less successful performers in order to identify causes for success and failure.
(i)    Financial management, accounting, auditing and LACI implementation
The SECF Managing Unit: The flow of funds would vary depending on the components and
would be specified in the project implementation manual. During the first year of operation, all
financial operations conducted by the Manager and the Accountant of the Project Management
Unit (UGP) will be supervised and approved by the procurement specialist of the Resident
Mission or a consultant identified by the Resident Mission for procurement related matters and by



11
a financial management specialist for operations related to financial management. This one-year
arrangement would ensure adequate training on the job of SECF personnel. A simple warehouse
will be constructed next to the SECF Training Center which is centrally located in Nouakchott.
As a general rule, financial management would be undertaken centrally by the SECF, which
would also enter into all contracts for sub-project implementation. Procurement guidelines are
given in Annex 6a. Payments to NGOs and suppliers would be done directly by the SECF
according to an approved payment schedule.
A computerized management system (planning, follow-up and evaluation) including the
preparation of a manual of administrative and accounting procedures will be put in place at
Project level. This system should be tested and operational before credit effectiveness. The
financial statements of the Project should be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA. The audit report should be submitted to IDA no later than six months following the end
of the fiscal year. The financial statements to be audited should include: (i) a statement of
resources and expenditures, (ii) a balance sheet, (iii) a reconciliation of the Special Account and
(iv) a statement of expenditures.
The Borrower and IDA have agreed on an action plan for the implementation of disbursement
procedures under LACI (Loan Administrative Change Initiative). This action plan foresees
disbursements after September 30, 2001 to be done under PMR-based procedures using the
Special Account facility. The new mode of disbursement will require the production of the
following quarterly reports: (i) financial statements, (ii) project progress, and (iii) procurement
management.
The funds flow, which will depend on the components will be detailed in the Project's manual of
procedures. During the first year, all the financial transactions made by the Project Management
Unit (PMU) will be monitored and approved by the procurement specialist of the Resident
Mission, or a consultant in procurement appointed by the Resident Mission, and by a financial
analyst for financial matters. The provisions adopted for the first year will ensure an adequate in-
house training for the staff of SECF.
Consultants and NGO technical assistance personnel financed by IDA will be selected in
accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. Given the specific nature of these
activities, contracts would be awarded directly to NGOs or consultants satisfactory to IDA on the
basis of work programs and terms of reference or in a competitive way from established short
lists.
Procurement information would be collected and included in the semiannual progress reports to
be prepared by project management so as to revise cost estimates and timing of procurement
actions. The information to be provided includes: a) contract award data; b) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts and the total costs; c) revised timing of procurement actions,
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; d) compliance
with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement; e) compliance of procurement with
the implementation manual and systematic review of procurement procedures; and f) a
completion report by the Government within six months of the credit closing date.
2.    Institutional reforms supported by the project
The project will primarily strengthen the women's cooperative movement and the SECF. It will
give some selected regional offices of the SECF the resources to test the effectiveness of different
strategies. In the process, the personnel will gain experience which can be used for the
dissemination of best-practices. Participating cooperatives can be used for the demonstration on



12
nutrition intervention techniques and their members could also become "trainers" for other
women's cooperatives. A core of "female technicians" will be selected and equipped to assist
other women's cooperatives in identifying and implementing income generating activities. It will
pave the way for an increased role of the SECF in gender and social issues.
3.    Benefits and target population
Economic benefits
Improved preschool child nutrition and health improves the readiness of children for education at
the primary level. Economic benefits are expected from (i) fiscal savings from lower health
costs, (ii) increased primary school efficiency, and (iii) financial savings on the part of parents
who pay for health care. Improved nutrition/health and cognitive development for children
reached by the program will increase lifetime earnings by raising productivity. Improved
nutrition of young children will reduce future morbidity due to the strong link between nutritional
well being and good health, thereby reducing the cost of the health care system in the future. The
parents/mothers participating in the income-generating activities of the project will also reap
increased income. The new entrepreneurial activities will produce secondary benefits that would
increase total rural output in target regions. Increased incomes of women will improve family
welfare and more specifically child nutrition and health.
Social benefits
Young children (0-3 years), pregnant women and lactating mothers belonging to women's
cooperatives and their communities will be the main beneficiaries of the project. The enhanced
parenting skills and the participation of women in the income generating activities will generate
substantial social benefits from a better quality of life for women, children and families. In
summary, this pilot program that would remedy critical early childhood nutritional deficiencies is
fundamental to the success of a national strategy for poverty reduction.
Target population
The target population is that of children under three years of age and their parents (specifically
pregnant women during the last trimester and lactating mothers during the first six months of
breastfeeding) in selected regions (Wilayas of Assaba, Gorgol and Hodh-Gharbi), with particular
emphasis on low income pregnant women and mothers of young children who are also heads of
household. The pilot project covers three out of 13 wilayas in the country and the poorest
neighborhoods in periurban areas of two large cities: Nouakchott and Nouadhibou. In the urban
centers, the following target districts have been identified: (a) in Nouakchott: Arafat, Toujounine,
Riadh, Dar Nairn, El Mina and Sebkha; (b) in Nouadhibou: Kraa Boudou, Foum El Base, Dar
Salam, Hay El Merdoum and Laeuweyne. Plans include funding for 140 women's cooperatives
in rural areas and 30 urban Community Nutrition Centers. Implementation is phased over a 3-
year period.
4.    Institutional and Implementation arrangements
Role of the SECF
The SECF will be the executing agency for this project. All SECF directorates and services and
the district Units (Antennes regionales) will be involved as appropriate in coordination with the
other ministries, as well'as all SECF's "partenaires au developpement", namely UNICEF, WHO,



13
FAO, AFD, and NGOs. While SECF has demonstrated its capacity to develop and pursue a
sound sector policy, it has not yet been responsible for more than GOM's recurrent non-wage
budget allocation for the sector (the budget allocation for salaries is managed by Ministry of
Finance (MOF), and the investment budget contributed by donors and executed by various project
units is managed by MAED). Therefore, the project has a component for capacity building for
SECF and the new management arrangements being proposed. The project includes measures to
strengthen the capacity of the Executive Secretariat for the Promotion of Women (SECF) in areas
of planning, coordination and monitoring and evaluation. Resources will be allocated to
strengthen the Office National de la Statistique (ONS) in evaluation of nutritional impact.
Project management
The project itself will be managed by a Project Management Unit or UGP (Unite de Gestion de
Projet) headed by a National Director (Directrice Nationale). The UGP will be housed in the
SECF but constitute an autonomous entity with separate accounting. UGP will include 13
recruited staff: (a) one project director, (b) one procurement specialist, (c) one nutrition specialist,
(d) one communication specialist, (e) one accountant and financial analyst (f) four agro-
economists, and four nutrition specialists residing in provincial capitals. Each of the recruited
staff will share some of the implementation responsibilities with designated senior civil servants
belonging to existing SECF units: "Direction de la Famille, " " Direction de la Promotion
Feminine. " and " Direction de la Cooperation et de la Planifi cation." A "Comite Regional de
Concertation" headed by the "Directeur de Cabinet" of the SECF will make key decisions
concerning implementation and monitoring. The UGP will manage program implementation, but
will coordinate its activities involving other Ministries through the MAED (Direction des
Ressources Humaines) which is responsible for the "Comite National de Nutrition." It will
benefit from the support of all SECF directorates and district health authorities-DRASS. While
the MOP will retain its donor coordination function, it has agreed that the technical, program-
specific tasks dealing with nutrition will be implemented by the SECF. SECF will be supported
with additional training, equipment, computers, and technical assistance. Moreover, by pursuing
the decentralization of decision-making, district staff will increasingly become involved in
program planning and execution. Similarly, donors, UN agencies and NGOs, which have already
participated in the development of the new sector policy, will increase their role in the execution
of the program and will be entrusted with the technical support of specific components. A small
"Comite Technique Restreint" will be created and will meet every second month. It will include
UNICEF, WHO, FAO, MSAS and delegates from NGOs.
D.    Project Rationale
1.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
(a)   In devising a strategy for the nutrition pilot project, the main choices were between
strengthening nutrition services of the Ministry of Health, enhancing the capacity of the Ministry
for Agriculture to promote better food security and nutrition, or innovating by entrusting the
newly created SECF the responsibility of community nutrition through women's cooperatives.
After extensive consultations with the major stakeholders (technical ministries, donors, NGOs,
women's cooperatives and central government officials), the consensus was that the SECF
assisted by NGOs should be given the primary role in conducting program interventions. It was
recognized that child nutrition is primarily the responsibility of women in the present Mauritania
society and that women leading institutions (SCEF and cooperative) should be given the means to
organize the eradication of malnutrition. This would increase the likelihood that nutrition of
children would be addressed in a sustainable manner.



14
(b)   A second strategic choice involved the geographic targeting of the project. The pilot
phase financed by this credit will cover pilot cooperatives in 3 of 10 districts. The GOM has
indicated that the Nutricom project should be initiated first in the poorest Wilayas identified by
the National Statistical Office (ONS): Assaba, Gorgol and Hodh-El Gharbi and the poorest
periurban neighborhoods of the two largest cities: Nouakchott and Nouadhibou. If successful, the
project approach could eventually cover all districts in a subsequent project. The pilot project
under this credit will consequently be appraised as the first phase of a long-term national
program.
2.    Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(a)    Although the reduction of malnutrition is not intrinsically a health problem, it is
traditionally considered as a component of health activities. The health sector in Mauritania was
supported by the Health and Population Project (PSP; Cr. 231 I-MAU), the first IDA credit to the
sector, which closed in August 1998. Designed as a regular investment operation, it financed: (i)
population activities developed under the coordination of the Human Resources Directorate of the
MAED; (ii) gender activities conducted by the Secretariat d'Etat a la condition fiminine; and
(iii) health activities organized by the MSAS.
(b)   Other donors currently active in the health sector in Mauritania include the UN agencies,
the EU, the French and German Cooperation, the Saudi Development Fund, the Islamic Bank for
Development, and the AfDB (see chart below).
Sector issue   Project                       Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
l____________   l(Bank-financed projects only)
______________    |Implementation Progress (IP)  Development Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Health Sector    Projet d'Appui   Effective 10/27/1998     Sector-wide support project
Investment     au Secteur de                               combined with targeted interventions
la Sante, PASS                             in selected program areas such as
(Credit 30550-                             STD/AIDS, family planning,
MAU)                                       communicable diseases surveillance
Other develop-
ment agencies
European Union  Rehabilitation of  Satisfactorily implemented    Tertiary and secondary hospital
National Hospital (1993-1995)              development.
Center & Aioun   ECU 8,000,000
Hospital
Service         Satisfactorily implemented;   Secondary hospital and primary
decentralization   (1991-1995);            health care development.
in Gorgol District ECU 8,500,000
AIDS/STM        Satisfactorily implemented    Capacity building and program
Support         until 1996. Suspended due to  support for AIDS/STM.
disagreement on project
coordinator;
ECU 600,000
African        Primary Health   Implemented with delays,   Strengthening drug procurement
Development    Services         since 1994 (effective since    centrally and in 4 districts;



15
Bank            Strengthening   1992);                     Development of PHC in 2 districts;
UCF 10,000,000             Support to maintenance service.
French         Structural       Current; relatively successful; Development of PHC and first
Cooperation    Adjustment       FF13,000,000               referral health facilities.
Health System    Implemented; relatively   Decentralization;
Restructuring   successfully; during 1992-    District health services development;
1995                      AIDS/STD; and
FF12,000,000              Health personnel development.
3.    Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The IDA-assisted Health and Population Project gave an opportunity to the GOM to test the
capacity of the recently created SECF (1992) to implement field activities for the benefit of rural
women. This was done within a component Femmes et Developpement (FD) which included the
design, funding and supervision of 90 microprojets. The work was carried out with diligence,
though slower than planned (50 micro-projects executed by July 1998).
Implementation of the FD component of the PSP showed SECF to be a committed partner
pursuing a sound gender policy and observing agreements. On the negative side, the FD did not
sufficiently enhance SECF's management capabilities and has not significantly contributed to the
strengthening of donor support to SECF. To rectify this, the proposed project would include
some capacity building activities.
The SECF has acquired in recent years a significant visibility which has raised considerable
interest among donor agencies. It has proved to be an agency capable of open discussions and
actions in favor of women which have been traditionally at a disadvantage in the allocation of
development investments. The Health Sector Investment Project was carried out in a participatory
manner with the involvement of Government officials, NGOs, and donors. The MAED and the
Secretariat d'Etat ai la condition fiminine were particularly active.
4.    Indication of borrower commitment and ownership
Numerous meetings with key Ministries, field visits to women's cooperatives and several
seminars have given opportunities to the GOM and SECF in particular to demonstrate their keen
interest and dedication to the undertaking of the project described in the present document. The
implementation of the FD component of the PSP has also demonstrated SECF's willingness and
capacity to approach complex gender and poverty reduction problems (for instance, the
supervision of field activities by women's cooperatives, the comparison of different strategies in
improving the status of women, and the reduction of infant and child malnutrition).
5.    Value added of Bank support
It has been apparent during the preparation of this LIL that the Bank can play a role of consensus
builder for which it has a comparative advantage. The preparation of the project benefited from
the preparation of a Health SIP. The CAS and the Poverty Update identified several areas for
addressing poverty and malnutrition reduction in the next three years. IDA's first Health and
Population Project (PSP) (Cr. 2311 -MAU) provided the means for GOM to initiate some
activities against child malnutrition both through the Service de Nutrition of the Direction de la



16
Protection Sanitaire (DPS) for MSAS and the SECF. There is now a more favorable context for
local initiatives. The Bank is seen as a strong supporter of the involvement of NGOs and civil
society at large in local development issues. In Mauritania, there is also presently a genuine
commitment to decentralization. In the overall modernization of the health sector, some sub-
sector issues such as nutrition have been somewhat neglected. The proposed IDA Nutrition
project would, therefore, be fully justified as a means to build on PSP's achievements in specific
areas, and especially to improve cross sector performances. The credit will also be used to ensure
funding in high-priority program-areas related to poverty reduction and gender for which there is
broad consensus among Government, donors and NGOs. Another comparative advantage of the
Bank is its capacity to draw lessons from a large range of recent nutrition interventions funded in
the developing world. The bank is working closely with the African Network of Food Security
and Nutrition Specialist (RAINSA), which is offering consulting services to a range of targeted
nutrition interventions in the region.
E.    Summary Project Analyses
1.    Financial Assessment
There would be no direct recurrent costs resulting from project activities. However, the SECF
would cooperate closely with other Government departments regarding recurrent cost
implications under community nutritional, economic and social services or micro-projects. The
project anticipates large recurrent cost savings arising from (a) reduced health cost for women
and children; (b) benefits from increase adult productivity; and (c) projected lower morbidity
rates. Government financing at the investment phase is sufficiently small to ensure sustainability.
The present value in financial terms that would accrue to the cohort of children due to increased
incomes as adults, and to parents who will participate in the income generating activities in the
project is difficult to estimate at this time but most likely exceeds the investment cost. This
accounts for most of the financial benefits to the project. Other financial benefits would accrue to
the parents of these children who will likely spend less on education arising from reduced grade
repetition and lower health care costs due to lower morbidity.
2.    Technical Assessment
The project is based on a technically sound design, aspects of which have been piloted in other
African countries. Targeting of districts to be covered by the pilot program is based on the
poverty profile conducted by the ONS in 1996 and on a review of practical implications.
However, phasing of implementation would depend on the "readiness" of each selected district to
receive program inputs. Basic conditions of eligibility to receive inputs need to be satisfied.
Components were designed on the basis of local needs assessments and demand analysis
combined with experience and international best practice in community nutrition, food security
and micro-project development. Combining community nutrition activities with income
generating micro-projects is an innovation in Mauritania. The use of women's cooperatives and
NGOs or GIEs as the technical supervisors of community-based activities is based on the success
of the micro-projects implemented as part of the FD component of the PSP and on the
performances of the NGOs visited by the mission. Regional SECF offices in the selected pilot
districts have demonstrated their managerial capacity and are expected to play an important role
in the implementation of the project. The use of the large network of women's cooperatives is
meant to offer decentralized decision making at the community level. Since the project relies on
both economic and behavioral changes, improved social mobilization strategies and more
powerful IEC techniques must be developed during the project.



17
Unit costs used in the estimates are based on prevailing market unit costs, and allow for inflation
and reasonable level of physical contingencies.
3.    Institutional Assessment
The SECF
The capacity of the Secretariat for the Promotion of Women (SECF) to conduct the project has
been reviewed by an independent national consultant who has made recommendations. The
project includes measures to strengthen the capacity of the SECF in areas of planning,
coordination and monitoring and evaluation. It also includes resources to strengthen regional
offices, the Community Nutrition Training Center (Centre de Formation en Nutrition
Communautaire) and the ONS (in evaluation of nutritional impact).
Technical Assistance
Several arrangements have been made to ensure an efficient and rapid selection and appointment
of the appropriate staff for the UGP. Key positions for successful program implementation were
filled before negotiations. Cooperation with UNICEF and WFP for the implementation of the
nutrition program, with FAO for technical support to cooperatives, and technical departments of
NGOs for overall implementation will provide a broad base for readily available technical
assistance and support for the project activities at the community level.
4.    Social Assessment
Preventative health care and nutrition programs are more difficult to implement because most of
these interventions are designed to influence behavior. Weighing of children and regular
attendance in the parental education activities impose a substantial time burden on parents, so
other incentives are useful. UNICEF in Mauritania has reported difficulties in promoting growth
monitoring, so a careful analysis of the design options was done by the Government's project
preparation team and local partners. The most important finding from these social assessments
and district consultations was the persistent demand for income generating activities to support
mothers. They need a means to improve family resources and not only with advice on nutrition
and child caring knowledge. The proposed project design includes therefore income generating
aspects which are, in themselves, compatible with the parental education activities since the
micro-projects and microenterprise groups training are formed around the same parents and
women who will participate in the parental education and nutrition monitoring activities.
5.    Environmental Assessment
This is a Category C project. The micro-projects which are part of the components will
encourage soil protection against erosion and careful water management. The health education
aspects of the project will promote positive environmental impact since this will encourage the
use of latrines and environmental hygiene.



18
6.    Participatory Approach
The following entities were informed, consulted or invited to cooperate:
Agencies                       Identification/  Implementation   Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups    CONS,COL     CONS,COL         CONS,COL
Intermediary NGOs              IS,CONS,COL   IS,CONS,COL        CONS,COL
Academic institutions          IS,CONS         COL              COL
Local government               IS,CONS,COL   IS,CONS,COL    IS,CONS,COL
Involved Ministries            I, CONS, COL   I, CONS, COL      I, CONS, COL
Other Donors: UNICEF/FAO/WHO  CONS,COL         CONS,COL         CONS,COL
Note: IS=information sharing, CONS=consultation, COL=collaboration
The Government adopted a participatory process in the development of the project. At the initial
stages, in July 1997, a review of all potential stakeholders was carried out. This was followed by
a national client consultation workshop (October 1997), which had an attendance of more than
40 representatives from the project stakeholders--Government ministries, donors, UN Agencies,
NGOs, district officials, academia, cooperatives. In addition, two separate assessments of rural
micro-projects implemented under SECF supervision, using participatory rural appraisal
techniques were conducted, the results of which were presented at the participatory client
consultation workshop. District assessments of child nutritional status were carried out by MSAS
and UNICEF in sample communities in rural and urban areas.
F.    Sustainability and Risks
1.    Sustainability
The present credit would finance the pilot phase of what could be expanded into a long-term
national program to eradicate child malnutrition. The following features are adopted in the
project design to promote sustainability: (a) social mobilization through networks of women led
by the SECF (b) demand-driven, community-based approach in defining activities which could
reduce poverty and child malnutrition, (c) capacity building at the district level in planning and
monitoring of community child care; (d) building of grassroots institutions (cooperatives and
savings groups) around the parents' groups who would receive the parental nutrition education;
and (e) requirements for counterpart community contributions thus promoting community
ownership of the programs. The core of the project activities is the promotion of good child
nutrition and care behaviors and the identification of additional resources for assisting families to
maintain such behaviors. A substantial part of the project is devoted to capacity building at grass-
root levels, training and development communications to promote child growth and nutrition, and
the strengthening of grassroots institutions (such as women's cooperatives, GIEs and NGOs)
which are expected to continue after the pilot project investment period. Communities will also
contribute counterpart funding during the operational period of the project.



19
2.    Critical Risks (see fourth column of Logframe in Annex 1): Project outputs to
development objectives
Risk                                      Risk       Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
The capacity for implementation of the project Moderate  Training of project staff has been initiated.
by SECF is still weak                                Before and during project operational period
additional training, visits to other projects in the
Region and technical assistance will be provided.
Other Ministries may not sufficiently provide Moderate  Dialogue with other Ministries will be held to
support to the program of activities.                sensitize the other Ministries on the project
benefits and needs. Furthermore, the assistance of
the National Committee on Nutrition will be
secured in further development of appropriate
cross-sectoral cooperation
Project components to outputs
Risk                                      Risk       Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
There are not many experienced local NGOs to Moderate  Extensive dialogue and discussion with major
assist women's cooperatives. NGOs may not be         NGOs involved in child nutrition were held
willing to bid for some outlying and difficult       during preparation. This dialogue will continue at
districts.                                           the project implementation phase. International
and local NGOs will be invited to participate
actively in the project. Alternate solutions
involving locally available expertise have been
identified during appraisal.
Community organizations (women's coop-    Low        NGOs contracted to provide technical super-
eratives, micro-enterprises and savings groups)      vision will be required to monitor carefully and
may not be responsive to incentives.                 change the incentive structures as appropriate.
Health workers and/or Community Nutrition  Moderate  The training and payment of participating health
workers (CNW) may not be able to fulfill their       workers and/or CNW will be specified in the
work assignments because the demands of the          Project Implementation Manual. However,
project may be beyond their expertise or because     during implementation, further adjustments could
payments and incentives are not sufficient.          be made to meet changing demands. The
incentive structures and technical support for
these workers will be defined more clearly on the
basis of UNICEF experience with similar
projects . Community support to the CNW are
also seen as important incentives for sustaining
the pilot program.
Parents, mothers and other program participants Low  Although the FD  component of PSP and
may not be able to sustain attendance in the         community assessments found that this risk is
micro-project training  sessions and parental       low, the project design will provide for a suitable
education meetings, and program activities.          schedule which will take into account  the
agricultural calendars and local needs. A
communication strategy will be formulated to
sensitize participants.
Women cooperatives strengthening and savings Moderate  Literacy training and grassroots management



20
group formation and income skills training            techniques, will be applied in the project. Such
activities may be hapopered by the high illiteracy    methods are adaptable to low literacy
in the proposed project areas.                        envirobnents. However, al teo ative designs by
SECF regional offices could be used if the
_          process does not work in a particular district.
Overall project risk rating
Risk                                        Risk
_______________________________________ Rating
The overall risk that the pilot project could fail to Moderate  Project risks would be mitigated by close
achieve its development outcome is rated as           supervision, frequent reviews by senior nutrition
moderate.                                             specialists from UNICEF, the University and the
African Network of Food Security and Nutrition
Specialist (RAINSA), the Government and IDA
on implementation after careful project planning,
monitoring arrangements at the district level.
G.    Main Credit Conditions
1.    As conditions for negotiations, the Government:
*   fiurnished a draft Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA;
*   furnished a shortlist of NGOs, GIEs, or institutions to be eligible for central and
district level technical assistance;
*   furnished IDA with evidence of selection of the following staff (qualifications
satisfactory to IDA): Project Director, Manager (procurement specialist) and
accountant.
2.    As effectiveness conditions the Bank will require:
*   the project unit to establish and maintain a sound financial management in
compliance with OP/BP 10.02 in the following areas: accounting systems and
procedures, planning and budgeting, internal controls, auditing, etc.
*   finalization of Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA.
*   appointment of an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.
H.    Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
For the Team
Thierry A. Brun (AFTH3)                                       Nicholas
Task Team Leader                                          Technical Manager, AFTH2
Zf try cctor, AFC15



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Mauritania: Nutrition, Food Security and Social Mobilization
Narrative Summary         Key Performance            Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
Sector CAS Goal:                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce prevalence of child  Percentage of children  National nutrition surveys   Strengthen Government
malnutrition             below nutritional standards. and national employment    commitment against poverty
and social statistics.
Enhance and promote role   Number of women         Market surveys on food   Increased representation of
of women in the economic   benefiting from or enrolled   prices and household food    women in all public
and social development of   in activities supported by    consumption surveys.  institutions and promotion
the country              the sector.                                        of legislation empowering
women.
Promote food security and   Lower food prices for basic  Rapid appraisal techniques  Increase private investments
sustainable production.  commodities.             with NGOs                 in agro-food sectors
Mobilize civil society in  Level of participation of  Number of participating  Improve the legal
anti-poverty programs    local associations and   local associations and    framework for national and
NGOs.                    NGOs. Press coverage and  international NGOs.
analysis.
LIL Project                                                                 (Objective to Goal)
Development Objective:
To demonstrate that      30% reduction in stunting,   Nutrition surveys and local  Allocation of adequate
malnutrition and infant  wasting, growth retardation,  health statistics.   resources within the
mortality can be reduced in  anemia, iodine deficiency,                     National Health Budget
targeted districts through    and vitamin A deficiency.
capacity building and
income-generating
activities.
Outputs:                                                                    (Outputs to Objective)
1. Enhanced capacity of  FY2000: 45 nutrition related  Progress reports and surveys Significant expansion and
women cooperatives in    contracts/3 trained female                         strengthening of the
target villages to be    technicians                                        National Nutrition Program.
responsible for nutrition  FY2001: 45 more
activities (assisted by  contracts/3 more trained                           Freedom for NGOs and
NGOs).                   technicians;                                       associations to participate in
FY2002: 50 more                                   social programs.
contracts/4 more trained
technicians.



Narrative Summary         Key Performance           Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
2. Increased participation of FY 2001: 20 successful  Progress reports and surveys Effective support of GOM
women in microprojects    micro-projects per region                           & NGO technical services
including food and nutrition  funding nutrition activities                    to female operators and
related production, pro-  FY 2002: Total of 40                                health workers in target
cessing and marketing     micro-projects                                      villages.
activities                FY 2003: Total of 60
micro-projects.
At least 30% profit margin
on micro-project
investments each year of
project
3. Established programs   FY 2001: Two regions      Surveys and progress      Cooperative-friendly
promoting nutrition services  covered by nutrition-  reports.                legislation and supportive
and nutrition education.  education package (media                            measures to access technical
and mobile IEC teams)                               assistance
FY 2002: A total of four
regions covered
FY 2003: All five regions
covered.
Project Components       Inputs: (tentative budget
for each component)
Community Nutrition      US $  1,000,000            Project supervision and   Is assumed that the National
Program                                             progress reports.         Program of Nutrition will be
the major contributor to the
expansion of infrastructures,
personnel and coverage of
nutrition activities
Micro-projects            US $  1,900,000           Project supervision and   Is assumed that other
progress reports          national schemes of micro-
credit will also be available
to female cooperatives.
Social Mobilization/Rural   US $   900,000          Project supervision and
radio                                               progress reports
Project management,       us $    ,100,000          Project supervision and   Part of the capacity building
Capacity building                                   progress reports          of the Department of
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                     Statistics will be supported
by other projects.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 13
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
The justification for the Learning and Innovation Lending approach for this project is
delineated on p. 4 in the background section of the PAD. Below will be discussed the specific
features of the two prototypes aiming to reduce, in a measurable and cost-effective way, child
malnutrition in selected districts of Mauritania. In both "prototypes", young children (0-3
years), pregnant (last trimester) and lactating women (0-6 months) belonging to women's
cooperatives and their communities will be the main beneficiaries.
A.    First "prototype" : Cooperative mobilization and Rural Radio for nutrition
This first "prototype" addresses rural malnutrition. It will be implemented through
women cooperatives and associations which can demonstrate their interest in reducing the rate of
malnutrition in their communities. There are over 1,200 women cooperatives all over Mauritania,
grouping some 74,000 women. This component of the project will fund 140 of the 1,200
registered women cooperatives in the three target Wilayas. They will be selected according to
specific criteria in the three poorest Wilayas of the country, as identified by the ONS in the
Poverty profile (1997): Assaba, Gorgol and Hodh-El-Gharbi. "Women's groups" in the text
always refers to women belonging to a registered women cooperative or an association of women
participating in the project, therefore located in targeted areas, and generally assisted by a
participating NGO or GIE. However, in areas where no NGO nor GIE is available, locally
available resources (e.g. extension agents, health workers, school teachers and qualified members
from women cooperatives) will be given responsibilities to identify and implement nutrition
interventions and micro-projects.
This "prototype" is based on the assumption that malnutrition is caused by a combination of
factors resulting primarily from poverty and ignorance. It is therefore necessary to ensure a close
linkage between income generating activities, education, access to health services and nutrition
interventions. The SECF will provide through NGOs and GIEs, a number of incentives, including
small equipment, micro-grants, technical advice to women cooperatives which commit
themselves to conduct nutritional activities in a systematic manner.
Meetings and seminars at village level will be organized to empower local communities in taking
action against malnutrition. Once women cooperatives have identified meaningful activities,
Nutricom will finance mobilization through the SECF and deliver mostly through NGOs, a
number of incentives to women cooperatives which are applying for participation. This would
include technical training, inputs, small agricultural and /or handicraft equipment, micro-grants.
technical advice to women cooperatives which commit themselves to conduct nutritional
activities in a systematic manner. A large part of the work of contacting and counseling of
women cooperatives will be entrusted to NGOs, GIEs, local agents and local voluntary
organizations.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 13
(a)    Nutrition counseling and intervention component
In exchange for SECF/NGOs' assistance, rural women cooperatives and associations interested to
participate in the pilot program will have to organize with the nearest health post, health center or
nutrition rehabilitation center (Centre de recuperation nutritionnelle or CREN) one or more of
the following tasks to be conducted on a monthly basis:
- Growth monitoring of children 0-5 years
- Use of locally made cereal-pulses mixed flour as weaning food
- Oral re-hydration against diarrhea
- Promotion of exclusive breast feeding until 5 months
- Reduction of parasite infestation through hygiene, mosquito nets and de-worming
- Reduction of iron deficiency and folate deficiency by supplementation
- Reduction of iodine deficiency disorders by iodized salt mainly
- Reduction of vitamin A deficiency by supplementation
- Referral of most severe cases to nearest health post, health center or nutrition
rehabilitation centers (Centre de recuperation nutritionnelle or CREN)
- Group discussion of causes of malnutrition
- Identification of income generating activities
- Assessment of cost and benefits of micro-projects
- Literacy training.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 13
Definition of nutritional activities:
Activities which will be described in more detail in the Implementation Manual are
summarized here.
a. - Growth monitoring of children 0-3 years
Each participating cooperative will receive the necessary equipment: Scale, notebooks
diagrams and stationary. It will conduct a comprehensive anthropometric survey (name,
age, weight and height) of all children from the whole village or only from the members of
the cooperative if the village sample is too large (more than 400 children). This will be
conducted annually with the assistance from the health post or the "sponsor" NGO. A copy
of this survey will be transmitted to the Managing Unit of the SECF and another to the
Office National de la Statistique (ONS). The recommended date and methodology of the
survey will be selected by ONS. A final survey will be conducted one year after the last
survey.
b - Referral of most severe cases to health centers or nutrition rehabilitation
In addition of the annual anthropometric survey, all participating women's cooperatives will
be responsible for the monitoring, month after month of all cases of malnutrition identified
in their community. This will include but not be limited to the monthly measurement of the
weight and height of the children found to be below two Standard Deviations (S.D.) of the
mean of National Center for Health Statistics (N.C.H.S.) standards. This monitoring of
malnourished children and the nutrition rehabilitation activities will be set as conditions for
the benefits from the Nutrition project (micro-projects, micro-grants, participation in
training activities, etc...). Monitoring of malnourished children and nutrition rehabilitation
activities should be conducted together with the nearest health center.
c - Reduction of iron and folate deficiency - of iodine deficiency disorders (IDD) and of
vitamin A deficiency
Similarly, measures will be taken to obtain a month-after-month monitoring of all cases of
anemia, goiter and vitamin A identified in the community. This will include but not be
limited to the monthly recording of common signs of anemia, thyroid enlargement and eye
lesion or night blindness. NGOs and GIEs working with the SECF will be trained to use
field hemoglobinometers. This equipment will be placed at the disposal of local health
workers with appropriate training. In some instances, SECF and health Centers will provide
other diagnostic equipment to local health post for the duration of the surveys (micro-
centrifuge for hematocrit determination and fieldhemoglobinometers). Distribution or sale
of iron, folate, iodine and Vitamin A supplements will follow the standards agreed by the
Ministry for Health.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 13
d - Reduction of parasite infestation and the oral re-hydration therapy (ORT)
The activities of women cooperatives for the reduction of parasite infestation and the
promotion of oral re-hydration therapy (ORT) against diarrhea will follow also the
standards agreed by the Ministry for Health. If the nearest health post is conducting these
activities efficiently the cooperative will not need to engage in parallel preventive or
curative programs. Otherwise it will seek to obtain the necessary drugs and conduct with
medical supervision annual de-worming campaigns and ad-hoc diarrhea treatment with
ORT.
e- Promotion of cereal-pulses mixed flour as weaning food
Several women cooperatives are already producing some sort of cereal mix to be used as
weaning food. This activity will be expanded to make the recuperation of malnutrition cases
more effective. Technical assistance and financial support will be provided both for
production and marketing. Each cooperative will submit a budget with the assistance of the
sponsor NGO. Grants to expand or improve management of existing "boutiques meres-
enfant' or regular cooperative "boutiques" will be provided,
2.    Gradual implementation and Phasing of activities
Cooperatives will be encouraged to incorporate gradually some of the above activities in
their program. This will be assisted and phased according to the absorptive capacity of each
participating cooperative. The SECF will develop with MSAS, UINICEF, WHO, FAO and NGOs
training programs for each of the topics listed above. Each participating cooperative will be
eligible to receive a small grant and some equipment to launch a micro-project of its own choice
or create or improve its small retail store in the spirit of the "boutiques mere-enfant" promoted by
UNICEF. This retail store managed by women, supplies the local community with common food
and non-food items at a somewhat reduced price. A number of such retail stores operate
successfully in poor communities. Items sold by the "women's" stores will include weaning food
and micro-nutrient supplements following UNICEF/WHO recommendations. Cooperatives will
also be assisted to create day-care centers which will give easier access to children for counseling
and follow-up. Each participating cooperative will be offered the possibility to be assisted by a
voluntary organization or a local agency (agricultural extension, health center, school teacher) of
its own choice. This institution will act as a "sponsor" organization of the cooperative and act as
an intermediary between rural communities and SECF regional offices. The services will be paid
on a contract basis between the SECF and the entity providing the service. The role of
supporting NGOs, GIEs and/or local organizations will be primarily to help organize nutritional
activities, prepare the "micro-projects" and more generally, assist in the delivery of goods and
services to reduce the severity of malnutrition and health problems of children and mothers. It
includes provisions for the referral of severely malnourished children to nearest health post,
center or CREN. Negotiations will be pursued with World Food Program (WFP) to combine
some resources for better implementation of targeted interventions. If and when food
supplements from WFP are used for nutrition rehabilitation of malnourished children, this will be
strictly on a temporary basis, until income generating activities are initiated and become
profitable. The role of the "sponsors" will also be to educate women by frequent discussions and
demonstrations and finally help empower women to control resources and generate additional
income. Part of the resources generated are expected to be dedicated to child care and nutrition.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 13
This third aspect, which is aimed as a long term impact, is the major objective in order to make
the reduction of malnutrition sustainable. Cost for the "nutrition component" of Nutricom is
estimated at US$ 864,000 of which two thirds would be "rural" and one third "urban".
(b)   Income Generating Microprojects and Microgrants
1.    Selection of micro-projects: Each participating women cooperative meeting selection
criteria will be invited and assisted to analyze the causes of malnutrition and poverty in its
community. Mobilization will involve locally available expertise and be conducted in
participatory ways. Once possible remedies have been identified and if applicable, cooperatives
will be eligible for a "micro-grant" and /or equipment to implement an income generating
"micro-project". Eligible cooperatives will be asked to mobilize 10% of the amount of the total
grant they will receive. The "sponsor NGO or GIE" will help the cooperative to prepare the
documents to be submitted to the SECF regional office and technical committees. The SECF
central team, the "Unite de Gestion du Projet" or UGP will delegate to SECF district regional
offices and local institutions a large part of the identification, implementation and supervision
work. At respectively provincial (Wilayas) and district (Moughataa) levels a regional
intersectoral committee (comite regional de concertation) headed by the corresponding (Wali and
Hakem) Government representative will review and make recommendations for project approval
by SECF. Technical intersectoral committees will meet whenever necessary and expected to
make rapid assessments of the merit of each application so as to expedite the reviews within short
delays. If corrections are necessary, the draft proposal will be returned to the "sponsori NGO or
GIE. Once the initial or corrected version is locally approved, the SECF will verify that the
women cooperative has deposited in cash, in a post office account, the equivalent of 10% of the
amount of the requested micro-grant. In addition, under certain circumstances, contributions in
kind could be acceptable. When such a proof has been made, SECF will supply the "sponsor" a
check to be deposited on the account of the beneficiaries to purchase the necessary inputs and
equipment. Equipment purchased directly by SECF or the NGO/GIE will be delivered at a
mutually agreed date. Proof of such a financial deposit and/or equipment delivery will be
retained by the "sponsor".
2.     "Female technicians" selected from cooperatives: Training of participating NGOs,
GIEs and "female technicians" selected from cooperatives in all pertinent fields will be organized
mostly by the UGP at central level. "Trainers" will be selected from existing NGOs, professional
associations, public technical services, the private sector and the University. The intensive
training program will include the creation of a small core of "female technicians" in each of the
targeted districts (Gorgol, Assaba and Hodh El Gharbi). These ten to twelve female technicians
(in each wilaya) will be equipped to assist in turn cooperatives in undertaking a large range of
income generating activities and nutrition interventions. Cooperatives will be charged for their
services in order to make their mission sustainable at the end of the pilot project.
3.    Training in micro-finance: After the micro-project has been implemented and if
successful, women will be encouraged to save part of the profits and reinvest them. Some
women cooperatives might want to use their savings as a "revolving fund". The project will
assist women cooperatives to organize village banks using their savings. The technical training
and counseling expenses incurred by the "sponsor "organization assisting a women cooperative



Annex 2
Page 6 of 13
within the project would be paid by the project as part of the contract signed between the SECF
and the "sponsor".
4.    Contribution of communities: To ensure better ownership, women cooperatives will be
asked to contribute ten percent of the value of the initial investment of the income-generating
micro-projects (e.g. handicraft, small trade, horticulture, food processing, etc). Otherconditions
for eligibility are indicated in the Implementation Manual. These criteria include: (a) number of
years of existence of the cooperative or association; (b) successful completion of previous
community-based micro-projects; (d) commitment to effectively reduce mother and child
malnutrition; (e) existing assets; (f) micro-grant worthiness; and (g) identification of a suitable
"sponsor". Some of the micro-projects will require micro-grants, others small equipment and
some training and/or technical assistance or a combination of the above. In order to start swiftly,
most of the small equipment required during the first year will be purchased by NGOs (if locally
available). The SECF will subsequently take over the procurement of basic supplies such as
irrigation pumps, grain mills, tools and instruments necessary for income generating micro-
projects. Micro-grants will be used primarily to complement small equipment when savings from
the community is insufficient to purchase the required inputs. If beneficiaries do not demonstrate
dedication and effectiveness in using the equipment and reducing mother and child malnutrition,
the availability of further assistance could be restricted or suspended. Appropriate corrective
actions could be taken by UGP if necessary. The value added and innovative feature of the
present approach is to link the assistance received from the SECF to the performances in
reducing rates of malnutrition in the community.
5.    Harmonization with micro-credit: Micro-grants made to cooperatives under the present
project would have to be made under conditions which are not detrimental to existing and future
micro-credit schemes. Cooperative and consultative arrangements have been discussed both with
existing credit organizations and training/extension services which could provide the required
advisory services to women cooperatives. Nutricom's Implementation Manual will be based on a
detailed review of the existing micro-credits and micro-project schemes and would incorporate
criteria compatible with the existing credit scheme.
(c) Social Mobilization and Rural Radio
1.    Poor rural and urban women, as well as the general public, need to be aware of the
project, its benefits, as well as their commitment to nutritional activities and related obligations.
Information and sensitization activities would be undertaken throughout project implementation.
Use of the following media would be envisaged: radio broadcasts (nutrition and health education)
similar to those developed by PDS with NGOs or with UNICEF support (weekly or bi-weekly),
television broadcasts (monthly or quarterly), and information brochures (each semester). In
addition, regular seminars and meetings would be held throughout the selected wilayas, and field
visits by high government officials to the targeted districts would be carried out periodically. All
related activities would be organized by the SECF and its regional offices in collaboration with
the related Ministries. They would be funded under the social mobilization component.
2.    The radio broadcasts would not only provide basic information about the Nutricom
program (rationale, geographic location, participating institutions, achievements, etc.) but would
also be a comprehensive source of information for mothers of young children, their families, their



Annex 2
Page 7 of 13
cooperatives and the population at large. It would address problems of poverty and nutrition of
all affected population groups, could give tips on day-to-day life, relate progress in reducing
malnutrition, disseminating iodized salt and supplement the counseling services with plays and
games (with prizes to first winners per district every quarter). Such activities would be expected
to increase the popularity of the program, increase listenership, and generally increase awareness
of health and nutritional issues within family life. It would transfer the messages in local
languages in a simple, easily understandable and entertaining manner to both adults and children.
A local radio-theater group could also be contracted to implement part of this sub-component.
3.    UNICEF is planning to renovate and extend the coverage of the rural radio operating
from Barkeol. An agreement would be signed with SECF and the structures in charge to indicate
respective duties and responsibilities. With the agreement of the Ministry of Communication
(Ministere de la Communication et des Relations avec le Parlement), Nutricom will fund the
creation of another broadcasting station in Aioun as well as supporting equipment, supplies and
operating costs.
B.    Second Prototype: Mobilization and urban integration for nutrition
Since the mid-seventies a large portion of the nomadic population has migrated to urban
centers and to Nouakchott in particular. This drastic change in the way of life of thousands of
households each year has created serious problems of adaptation of forner pastoralists to an
urban environment. Rates of child malnutrition of 30 % or more have been reported from limited
surveys. UNICEF is successfully promoting urban nutrition rehabilitation centers (CREN) as
part of its "p6les de developpement urbains" in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou. Close cooperation
with the Service de Nutrition of DPS/MSAS and experienced NGOs has now made possible a
concerted urban nutrition policy.
This second "prototype" is based on the assumption that urban malnutrition is caused by a
combination of factors resulting from poverty, ignorance and poor adaptation to the urban
environment. It is further hypothesized that education, mobilization and limited nutritional and
social assistance could drastically reduce urban malnutrition. The Doulos Community Maternal
and Child Health Program in Mauritania has shown conclusively in Nouakchott that a
combination of dry ration distribution, on-site feeding, growth monitoring, and health education
can markedly reduce child malnutrition. This is not sustainable unless income of households can
be increased. The "prototype" will use the "best practices" of the NGOs already working in
Mauritania and combine them in an innovative way with the role of the SECF. The main
"instruments "which will be used are "Community Nutrition Centers" (CNC) managed by urban
district committees. The second "prototype" of Nutricom intends to specifically address the
transition to an urban environment in order to restore adequate nutritional conditions by a better
use of available resources, by improvement of the nutritional status of mothers and children and
the development of children under six years of age. As in the first "prototype" this "prototype"
will attempt to enhance the capacity of families to take better care of young children (0-3 years)
and preschool age children (3 to 5 years) through the provision of knowledge on child growth
and development, parenting, access to nutrition and health care services, and the promotion of
income generating capacity for women. It will facilitate access to micro-credit provided by other
institutions (e.g. Nissa Bank/UNICEF or COOPEC/UNDP) and provide equipment and/or micro-
grants as is the case in Prototype I. It will rely primarily on existing urban district organizations



Annex 2
Page 8 of 13
to implement the activities listed above in the description of the first prototype: growth
monitoring of children, promotion of locally made weaning food, oral re-hydration, promotion of
breast feeding, de-worming, use of mosquito nets, supplementation with iron, folate, iodine and
Vitamin A, referral of most severe cases to nutrition rehabilitation centers, education of mothers
on the causes of malnutrition, literacy training, promotion of income generating projects,
including micro-enterprises, training in accounting and cost and benefits analysis of micro-
projects.
At variance with the first rural "prototype", this urban prototype would place the emphasis of its
activities in the rehabilitation of moderately malnourished children through: (a) systematic
weighing of children; (b) supplementary feeding (dry rations or on-site feeding) of malnourished
children, pregnant (last trimester) and lactating women (babies over 6 months); and (c) the
enhancement of the access of slum dwellers to existing urban services. Since the slum dwellers
main concern is to find means to increase their cash income, the project would also offer advisory
services based on demonstrations of successful initiatives. This would be conducted in close
cooperation with existing saving-credit organizations promoted by the Bank, UNDP, UNICEF
and bilateral organizations. Cooperation with the African Development Bank (AfDB) will also
be promoted in the area of micro-credit.
(a) Urban community nutrition program component
The community nutrition program would be implemented through Community Nutrition Centers
(CNC) in the poorest urban districts of Nouakchott (Arafat, Toujounine, Riadh, Dar Naim, El
Mina, and Sebkha) and Nouadhibou (Kraa Boudou, Foum El Base, Daar Salaam, Hay Merdoun
and Laeuwyene). The funding of these centers by the project would be demand-driven. These
centers would be opened in vacant or rented facilities by the UGP. They would be staffed by
local district associations trained and equipped through the project. Each "comite de quartier"
interested to participate would select a management group (MG) which would be supervised by a
nutrition-qualified NGOs and senior districts community members. They would adopt similar
management rules as the ones set between UNICEF and the urban community of Nouadhibou. As
part of the "P6les de developpement" initiative conducted with UNICEF support, nutrition
centers have been opened in poor urban districts. They are operated by small teams associating
NGOs with delegates from the municipality. After appropriate training, the "management group"
of each CNC would receive a monthly financial compensation proportional to its workload.
Workload is determined by the number of children weighed on a systematic basis, fed dry-rations
or on-site and (if applicable) referred to rehabilitation for malnutrition. Coordination and support
would be a collaborative effort of SECF and its decentralized personnel in Nouadhibou, the
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs and NGOs or GIEs. Field visits conducted in the poor peri-
urban districts of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou demonstrate that such arrangements are
operational. Doulos Community, an international NGO has developed an efficient scheme which
has shown good performances and need now to be modified to become sustainable.
The innovative feature of Nutricom would be (a) to move from remote and very weak nutritional
assistance by existing health centers and health posts as it is presently done in most cases to the
provision of nutrition-support services right in the middle of poor suburban districts; (b) to
transfer responsibility to slum dwellers for identifying and combating mild to moderate protein-
energy malnutrition, diarrhea and the three major micro-nutrient deficiencies (iron, iodine and
vitamin A); (c) to emphasize preventive measures in the community and reduce drastically the



Annex 2
Page 9 of 13
number of children brought to health centers in critical conditions requiring expensive medical
treatment. Obviously CNC responsibilities would not include the rehabilitation of severely
malnourished children which would be referred to the nearest competent health center, hospital or
CREN.
(b) Main differences between interventions planned in Prototype 1 and 2
There are significant differences between the interventions planned in Prototype I and Prototype
2. In poor rural areas, social services are either absent, weak or not functional. Women
cooperatives and regional offices of the SECF will be assisted to compensate these
insufficiencies by undertaking a larger set of actions than in urban areas where some of the social
services are operational. These actions will range from nutrition education, rehabilitation of
malnutrition cases, income generating activities and training in savings and investment. The
project will actually assist NGOs and GIEs to open new operations in rural areas of targeted
districts. In contrast, in the urban environment of Prototype 2, the emphasis will be placed on
better use and access of existing services. Close cooperation with UNICEF and UNDP supported
initiatives will prevent duplication, overlapping activities or contradictory strategies which might
jeopardize credibility and sustainability. Better coordination with nutrition rehabilitation centers
(CREN) and existing micro-credit institutions will be the responsibility of the Project
Management Unit (Unite de Gestion du Projet or UGP).
(c) Role of the Community Nutrition Training Center
It consists in the five following activities: (i) training of community nutrition actors, (ii)
producing tools and pedagogic materials, (iii) ensuring the promotion and diffusion of nutritional
norms, (iv) supporting 'action-research' for the promotion of nutrition, (v) contributing to the
national programs against lacks in micro-nutriments.
(d) Urban intermediation for access to Microcredit for Microproject
NGO support of urban women groups would be predominantly directed to increase and diversify
the source of income of female heads of household belonging to the Community Nutrition
Centers. The NGO or GIE would facilitate primarily food security and nutrition-related
initiatives such as food processing and marketing. Since several schemes of saving and credit
already exist in urban areas, the project would try not to duplicate nor compete with on-going
programs such as COOPEC/UNDP, CAPEC/DID, ACMPE and Nissa Bank of UNICEF.
Technical assistance and training (social intermediation) in the identification and submission to
other funding agencies would be provided. Under specific conditions, indicated in the
implementation manual, micro-grants could be made available to local communities. This would
be restricted to groups which are eligible for micro-credit but unable to obtain it from other
sources. Elegibility criteria are specified in the implementation manual.
Based on the experience gained under the "Women and Development" component of the PSP
project and the UNDP line of credit managed by the SECF, it is proposed that selected NGOs
would: (a) assist groups of women (belonging to CNCs in urban communities) in designing and
obtaining funding for micro-projects aimed at improving their nutritional situation and develop
sustainable income generating activities; (b) obtain such micro-grants from the project if
microcredit cannot be obtained from other sources; (c) provide the necessary training to the



Annex 2
Page 10 of 13
assisting NGO/GIE as well as to the women cooperatives in using micro-credit efficiently (if
obtained from other institutions) .
Criteria used for acceptance to provide micro-grant for the appraised operations would be:
a) for collectively owned equipment of infrastructure (e.g. grain mill, sun drying equipment for
fish or vegetables, grain storage, donkey and cart for water distribution, retail store, etc.) b)
directly productive or of a socio-economic type, improving food security, nutrition and living
standards of the poorest women and children of CNC; c) financially sound in the case of income
generating activities, to be demonstrated through simple income statements and increased returns
to labor; d) capable of being maintained by the beneficiaries after completion of the project; e)
environmentally sound; and f) designed and implemented with the assistance and sponsorship of
a pre-qualified NGO or GIE in targeted urban districts. The micro-grant organization would ask
the group of women to provide: a) a contribution, in kind and in cash, of at least 10% of the
investment budget of the activity; b) a commitment for replacement of assets and equipment,
through cost recovery and for operation and maintenance; and c) a commitment to provide all
unskilled labor for construction (if applicable) and maintenance with no remuneration.
d) Selection of NGOs
In order to ensure a rapid start of project activities, a preliminary NGO identification and
selection process was started during the project preparation as follows: a) pre-selection of 9
interested national and international NGOs, according to criteria of experience and reputation as
being "bona fide" NGOs; b) information and sensitization on project objectives and strategy of
the national Association of NGOs, which was also invited to comment the draft Manual of
Implementation.
Immediately after Negotiations, all candidate NGOs were asked to provide the SECF managing
unit a detailed presentation of their organization, management and field experience, CVs of
members, and a first proposal of approach in urban nutrition and food security interventions;
After analysis the best ten NGOs will receive additional training, be provided with all relevant
documentation and given the opportunity to identify and prepare, together with the targeted urban
communities, the different activities and corresponding budgets. Clear criteria to be used both
for NGO or GIE selection and beneficiaries will be indicated in the Implementation Manual.
Where international NGOs have demonstrated expertise to intervene, joint ventures with national
NGOs would be encouraged to facilitate the emergence of experienced local NGOs.
NGOs selected during the course of the project would enjoy a large autonomy in conducting their
field activities in support of the urban groups. Financing to support the local development
initiatives around Urban Nutrition Centers would be made available to them on the basis of a
formal agreement signed with the project specifying the rights and obligation of each party and in
accordance with an agreed work program and budget. NGOs would finance their own staff as
part of their contribution to the project. The project would finance the goods, works and services
for training and pilot testing specific components of micro-projects. The project would also
finance the NGOs' incremental operating costs for carrying out field activities, and the related
training of beneficiaries. NGO or GIE administrative costs to assist women's groups would be
negotiated when approving work programs and budgets and would not exceed 15% of the
investment costs of the micro-projects.



Annex 2
Page 11 of 13
(e) Monitoring
Project monitoring would be the primary responsibility of the SECF, including its regional
offices. To this end, it would develop and apply a computerized management information
system. The SECF already has a database listing the main characteristics of existing women
cooperatives. The SECF would collect additional socio-economic baseline information on all
participating women cooperatives during start-up and update this information during
implementation. Such information would be critical to identify and solve problems as they arise.
Details on the Monitoring and Evaluation component are given in Annex 8.
Participating NGOs and sub-project implementors would have to submit quarterly financial
reports to the respective SECF central or regional office. Monitoring of micro-projects would be
the duty of the district offices, assisted by the district committees. Standardized monitoring
forms would be included in the project implementation manual to facilitate monitoring and
situation analyses. These forms would also contain objectively verifiable indicators of project
performance to allow for easy comparison. The regional offices would prepare short monthly
district implementation progress reports which would be summarized by the SECF into monthly
financial and implementation monitoring reports. On a quarterly basis, the SECF would prepare
a more detailed situation analysis for submission to the Commissariat d'Etat aux Droits de
i'Homme, ai la Lutte contre la pauvrete et a la Reinsertion (CEDHLPR) and IDA.
(i) Evaluation
External project evaluation would be the primary responsibility of the "Office National de la
Statistique " (ONS) and the Commissariat d'Etat aux Droits de I 'Homme, a la Lutte contre la
Pauvrete et a la Reinsertion. The ONS, which is part of the Ministry for Planning, has
demonstrated its capacity for independent data collection and analysis during the preparation of
the Poverty Profile of Mauritania. ONS has already engaged in testing nutrition survey
techniques in cooperation with FAO. In addition ONS could benefit from the expertise of Doulos
Community, an international NGO, active in Mauritania, in processing anthropometric and
nutritional data for evaluation purposes. When field activities begin ONS will conduct baseline
surveys. These surveys will be conducted progressively as women cooperatives are selected and
initiate their nutrition activities.
During the life of the project, only two external evaluations, one baseline and one final, would be
funded by the project. Both evaluations would analyze: (a) the achievements in project
implementation; (b) the nutritional impact on participating children and women and host
communities; and (c) the appropriateness of the institutional arrangements and administrative
mechanisms.
Funds from the project have been allocated in the project's budget. It has been agreed during
project preparation that baseline data will be collected in each target district in the very villages
and cooperatives participating in the project. This will include a comprehensive anthropometric
survey (name, age, weight and height) of all children from the whole village or only from the
members of the cooperative if the village sample is too large (more than 400 children). This will
be conducted when project-funded activities actually start, then be repeated at the end of the
project with the assistance from the health post and/or the "sponsor" NGO. A copy of this survey



Annex 2
Page 12 of 13
will be transmitted to the Managing Unit of the SECF and to the Commissariat d'Etat aux Droits
de I 'Homme, a la Lutte contre la pauvrete et a la Reinsertion for additional analysis. The date
and methodology of the baseline and final surveys will be determined by ONS technical
specialists. Evaluations would also use (a) the internal management information system and the
financial monitoring reports; and (b) a beneficiary and community assessment to evaluate impact
on the ground. Details on the evaluation component are given in Annex 8.
(g) Financial management, accounting and auditing.
The SECF Managing Unit: The flow of funds would depend on the components and would be
specified in the project implementation manual. During the first year of operation, all financial
operations conducted by the Manager and the Accountant of the Project Management Unit (UGP)
will be supervised and approved by the procurement specialist of the Resident mission. This one-
year arrangement would ensure adequate training on the job of SECF personnel. During the
following two years the SECF will manage its own budget in an independent way. It will be
supervised at interval by staff from the Resident mission and visiting missions from H.Q. The
procurement of all imported agricultural equipment, radio equipment, nutritional kits and
supplements, computers, furniture and vehicles required by the project, will be handled by the
project unit of the SECF.
A simple warehouse will be constructed next to the SECF Training Center which is centrally
located in Nouakchott. As a general rule, financial management would be undertaken centrally
by the SECF, which would also enter into all contracts for sub-project implementation.
Procurement guidelines are given in Annex 6a. Local competitive bidding would be organized
in the same way as for other Bank-funded projects in Mauritania. It would include local
advertising, clearly defined evaluation criteria, eligibility of foreign bidders, public opening of
bids and award to the lowest evaluated bidder. Payments to NGOs, suppliers, etc. would be done
directly by the SECF according to an approved payment schedule. Accounting for all sub-
projects expenses (see below) would be undertaken by the beneficiary NGO or GIE sub-
contractor. The SECF would be responsible to monitor closely the allocation of all funds to
ensure that funds are available on time for all service providers including other participating state
services such as ONS. Each of the four provincial offices of SECF (Gorgol, Assaba, Hodh El
Gharbi and Nouadhibou) will be entitled to manage a small "Caisse d'Avance" of less than $ 500
which will be replenished by the Accountant when receipts of expenses are validated.
NGOs: For NGOs services, expenditures for small items (listed below) would be made against a
contract between the SECF Managing Unit and the sponsoring NGO, specifying the budget and
the working program. No contract would exceed the annual amount of US$ 50,000. Training
costs (personnel, travel allowances and housing) and the NGOs' operating costs would constitute
the main expenses. The main purchases to be made by NGOs to assist women cooperatives
would consist in small equipment, material and supplies, small ruminants for fattening, some
construction material. Material and equipment contracts to assist women cooperatives would be
less than the equivalent of US$ 15,000. The grouping of these purchases would not be feasible
because they involve different operators and different beneficiaries in scattered areas. These
purchases will be financed by SECF and procured through local shopping procedures by NGOs
acceptable to IDA.



Annex 2
Page 13 of 13
Consultants and NGO technical assistance personnel financed by IDA will be selected in
accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. Given the specific nature of these
activities, contracts would be awarded directly to NGOs or consultants satisfactory to IDA on the
basis of work programs and terms of reference or in a competitive way from established short
lists. Prior review would be required for contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000
equivalent each.
Procurement information would be collected and included in the semiannual progress reports to
be prepared by project management so as to revise cost estimates and timing of procurement
actions. The information to be provided includes: a) contract award data; b) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts and the total costs; c) revised timing of procurement actions,
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; d) compliance
with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement; e) compliance of procurement with
the implementation manual and systematic review of procurement procedures; and f) a
completion report by the Government within six months of the credit closing date.



Annex 3
Page lof 3
Annex 3
Nutritional Situation
A.    Low nutritional status of large segments of the population.
The diet of a large portion of the population of Mauritania is insufficient in energy and
poor in essential nutrients. At national level, the mean dietary energy intake of the population
of Mauritania is estimated at 2,050 calories, which is 15 % below the average energy
requirements as estimated by FAO/WHO expert committees. The diet of most inhabitants is
monotonous, constituted primarily of cereal products representing 60 % of the dietary energy
intake. Meat products account for 5 %, and dairy products and eggs for 12 %. The diet is very
low in vegetables and fruits, accounting for 2 % only of caloric intake. Hence it is usually very
poor in vitamins and essential minerals, particularly antioxidants which have a protective role.
Fruits consist primarily of dates which are consumed in large quantities at the harvest. Specific
deficiencies including iron, iodine, vitamin A and C are usually associated to this types of diets,
resulting in clinical deficiency diseases affecting primarily children and women. Numerous
women cooperatives have shown interest in the production of vegetables but lack the basic
training and inputs. High intake of sugar due to frequent tea consumption as well as excessive
fat intake are responsible for obesity, diabetes and an increasing prevalence of diseases of
affluence (e.g. hypertension, cardiovascular diseases) among urbanized populations. Fish is
consumed in surprisingly small quantity, except along the Senegal river and by small coastal
populations of fishermen. The marine resources could be used much more effectively to
improve the diet of the population and reduce the severity of child malnutrition. Fish farming
has been experimented successfully on a small scale and could be disseminated along the
Senegal River by women cooperatives.
B.    Food deficit and food insecurity
In addition to chronic food shortages, there are large regional disparities in Mauritania
and marked seasonal fluctuations in food availability. At certain times this instability inflicts
severe food restrictions on some groups of inhabitants. During the Fall of 1997, the food
deficit was particularly severe in Brakna, Gorgol, East of Trarza and in the triangle that covers
the Moughataas of Monguel, M'Bout and Barkeol. The food situation of the slums of the
urban centers continues to deteriorate. Approximately two thirds of the grains consumed in
Mauritania are imported. Consumption and imports of wheat and rice have increased steadily
for the last ten years. Food aid has contributed on the average from 5 % to 20 % of grain
imports to compensate for poor harvests and severe food deficits among low-income groups as
was the case in 1996 and 1997.
C.    Protein-energy malnutrition
High prevalence of growth retardation is common among children, indicating moderate
to severe chronic malnutrition (see map 2). A study conducted in 1991 in four regions of the
country (Assaba, Gorgol, Tagant and Nouakchott) showed that almost half (49 %) of the
children suffered from some degree of protein-energy malnutrition, of which 33 % was
moderate and 15 % was severe. The following year (1992) UNICEF conducted a survey and



Annex3
Page 2of 3
reported similar results, a prevalence of protein-energy malnutrition of 44 % of which 36 %
was moderate and 8 % was severe.
D.    Iron deficiency and parasitic infestation
In spite of the availability of fish along the coast and the relatively high consumption of
meat, poor absorption of iron combined with parasite infestation (e.g. malaria) are causing
widespread anemia, a debilitating condition affecting primarily women. High prevalence of
iron deficiency is probably associated to folate deficiency anemia. According to a report from
the Ministry for Health and Social Affairs, the prevalence of anemia indicated from medical
files is on the rise.
E.    Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD)
Iodine deficiency, which affects more than 30 % of the population in certain regions is
known to impair learning ability of children and reproductive functions in women.
Hypothyroidism, induced by iodine deficiency, causes slow growth, mental retardation and in
severe cases, cretinism in children. Localized iodine deficiency disorders (IDD) have been
diagnosed in Mauritania. Diversification of food sources by more intense inter-regional trade
could reduce or eliminate this disease over a period of years. However, iodination of salt or
other forms of iodine supplementation are more effective in the short term. UNICEF has
already provided significant support in the iodination of the salt and campaigns to promote the
consumption of iodized salt. This work needs to be scaled up and the network of women
cooperatives is an excellent vehicle for the dissemination of iodized salt. The project will
support UNICEF initiatives in this field.
F.    Vitamin A deficiency
Severe vitamin A (retinol) deficiency is the leading cause of blindness among children
while night blindness occurs at the end of the dry season among children and pregnant women.
This was again confirmed in the wilaya of Hodh El Gharbi during the appraisal mission. The
prevalence of blindness among children was estimated at more than 1% suggesting a significant
prevalence of vitamin A deficiency and very low levels of beta-carotene consumption. This in
turn is linked to the very low consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables. Distributions of
vitamin A capsules to children organized with the assistance of UNICEF has reduced markedly
the prevalence of avitaminosis in certain regions. However the long term solution is a change
in food habits which could be promoted by women cooperatives. Meanwhile retinol
supplementation should be extended and continued as long as the diet of vulnerable groups is
poor in this essential micronutrient.
G.    Training of the "Auxiliaires de Nutrition"
The MSAS can count on approximately 493 "Agents de sante communautaires" (May
1998) in villages of more than 300 inhabitants. These are generally mature women from the
community who have received 45 days of training and can use ten essential drugs. Their
qualification in child nutrition is very low. They are supervised every 3 to 6 months or when
they visit health centers for the replenishment of their local pharmacy. In addition there are 84
"Auxiliaires de Nutrition " of which 44 are 'itinerantes ", that is not assigned permanently to
any specific location. Most of them received 3 months training a long time ago and need
additional training. These "Auxiliaires de Nutrition" do not have the necessary equipment to



Annex3
Page 3of 3
monitor malnutrition, nor drugs or nutritional supplements to treat it. Finally, at village level,
there are, in certain districts, the "Agents du Ver de Guinee" ( Guinea Worm Agents) which
have a basic training in primary health care but no specific activity in child nutrition. The
revived interest in the reduction of mother and child malnutrition by women cooperatives
would result in stronger motivation of the MOHAS in this domain. The project will provide
training, equipment and cooperative work agreements to MSAS staff in targeted districts.
H.   An emerging National Nutrition policy
Presently the elaboration of a national nutrition strategy is the responsibility of the
National Committee on Nutrition (CNN), which is placed under the Ministry for Planning
(Direction des Resources Humaines, DRHJ). It has been created to help a) assess the relevance
and effectiveness of nutrition intervention techniques; b) explore other intervention strategies
as recommended by international consultative groups; and c) design coordinated set of actions
to reduce effectively the prevalence of major nutritional disorders in association with
anti-poverty programs. The present project is based on selected recommendations of this
Committee. Several national institutions, U.N. agencies (especially UNICEF) and NGOs play a
role in the field of nutrition interventions, often with little coordination and sometimes with
overlapping responsibilities. The Ministries concerned are: the Ministry for Planning, the
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs and their decentralized structures, hospitals and primary
health centers; the Commissariat aux Droits de I 'Homme, a la lutte contre la Pauvrete et a la
Reinsertion; the Ministry of Agriculture and its decentralized staff, and more recently the SECF
and its network of women cooperatives.
In spite of such a diversity of actors, nutritional programs are very weak and nutritional
services and standards in slums and rural areas remain low. The effectiveness and/or
sustainability of the various activities reported remains to be demonstrated in terms of actual
decrease of rates of protein-energy malnutrition, micronutrients deficiencies and morbidity.
The access of the vulnerable populations to social services is inadequate and the results of most
interventions affecting nutritional status are very limited or not sustainable. Breastfeeding and
weaning practices are inadequate and obesity in women continue to be regarded as highly
desirable. The Government needs a concerted national nutrition policy, a set of clear priorities
and firm attribution of institutional responsibilities for the implementation of an agreed action
plan. It is therefore proposed to incorporate some capacity building component in the project to
upgrade the expertise of the SECF in nutrition interventions. However capacity building will
be mostly done through "hands-on training" as the largest part of the funds will be spent
serving poor communities. On the basis of the pilot nutrition program "Nutricom" and other
on-going activities the GOM will test the effectiveness of strategies to reduce the prevalence of
nutritional deficiency disorders and contribute to the design of a better national nutrition
strategy. If successful, these strategies could be combined into a larger project at national
level. The design of any follow-up hybrid project emerging from the present LIL will of course
depend on the relative success of each component. Discussions conducted with the Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Development, the Direction des Ressources Humaines and the
Commissariat aux Droits de l'Homme a la lutte contre la Pauvrete et a la Reinsertion indicated
firm commitment of GOM to go in that direction.



Project Appraisal Document                                           Project Title: Nutrition Investment Credit
Country: Mauntania                                                                       Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
Annex 4
Outline of the Implementation Manual
LISTE DES ABREVIATIONS ................................................................  3
TABLE DES MATIERES .4-5
INTRODUCTION ET BUT DU MANUEL                                .8
PREMIERE PARTIE: PRESENTATION DU PROJET                            .8
I. DESCRIPTION SUCCINCTE DU PROJET                             .8
1.1 Description du projet                            .8
1.2. Les differentes composantes du projet                  .8
1.3.Les types d'activit6s pr6vues par le projet               .9
1.4. Les agences d'execution des actions financees .                                15
1.5. Bailleurs de fonds du projet .15
11. LES INSTITUTIONS IMPLIQUEES DANS LE PROJET - ROLES ET FONCTIONS .16
11.1 . Au niveau central .16
11.2. Au niveau decentralis1 88
11.3. Autres intervenants                           .18
3. 1. Les beneficiaires                            .1 8
3.2. Les autres intervenants                          .18
III. ORGANISATION ET GESTION DU PROJET:
RELATIONS INTER-INSTITUTIONNELLES ET PROCESSUS DECISIONNEL .19
111.1. Ancrage institutionnel du projet .19
111.2. Organigramme du projet, D6finition des fonctions et des profils .21
III.3. Les Comites d'Orientation et de Concertation .32
111.3. 1. Le Comite National pour la Nutrition .32
111.3.2. Le Comite Technique de Concertation .33
111.4. Les relations entre les differents intervenants .33
111.4.1. Relations Projet - Beneficiaires .34
111.4.2. Relations Projets - Ministeres techniques et autres organismes .34
l1.5. Execution du projet .34
111.5. 1. Mise en oeuvre du projet .34
111.5.2. Budgets, Plans d'activites annuelles, Rapports (Responsabilit6 et Frequence) .36



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Project Title: Nutrition Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                                                                 Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
DEUXIEME PARTIE: LES PROCEDURES .........................................................                                    39
I. LES PROCEDURES POUR LA MISE EN OEUVRE DES COMPOSANTES DU PROJET39
I.1. Proc edures de selection .........................................................                                      39
a) Les procedures de selection des sites d'intervention ........................................................ 39
b) Les criteres d'eligibilite des beneficiaires .........................................................             40
c) Les conditions de selection des interm6diaires (ONG, autres .......................................... 42
1.2. Le renforcement des services de l'Etat .........................................................                        44
1.3. L'amelioration des competences .........................................................                                45
II. CYCLE DE PREPARATION ET APPROBATION DES MICRO-PROJETS ...................... 46
III. COMPTABILITE, AUDITS ET DECAISSEMENTS DES FONDS IDA .......................... 50
III.1. Comptabilite .........................................................                                                50
111.2. Audit .........................................................                                                       50
111.3. Decaissement des fonds de l'IDA .........................................................                             51
[II.4. Gestion financiere ..........................................................                                         52
IV. PROCEDURES DE PASSATION DES MARCHES ET RESPONSABILITES ................. 53
IV. 1. Rappel des Generalit6s .........................................................                                      53
IV.2. Marche des travaux .........................................................                                           56
IV.3. Fournitures des biens et 6quipements .........................................................                         56
IV.4. Consultants ......................................................... 57
V. SUIVI - EVALUATION .........................................................                                              62
V.1. Generalites .........................................................                                                   62
V.2. Le Suivi ...............                                                                                                62
V.3. Evaluation d'impact ...............                                                                                      64
ANNEXES ...............                                                                                                       71
* Fiche d'identification des ONGs
* Modele de presentation de dossier de micro-projets
* Suivi-evaluation des interventions du projet
* Modele de contrat de maltrise d'oeuvre entre le projet et une ONG pour 1'execution de micro-projets ou le
suivi technique des actions sur le terrain
* Modele de contrat entre ONG et Beneficiaires



Ptojeci Apptalsa DocuWnnl tuldibn Invosnl d
Mawitania                                                                 ANNIEX 5                                                                 Amex
I3uaIgCe
Maudlania
Nuiu.coo
Expenditure Accountis by Coinponen  Programme                                                                            Pbysical
(UM)                              Nutrition    Mobillsalion                 Evaluation   Renlorcernent                 Contlingemcies
Communauialre    Soclae       Micro-Projot   Exierne      linstitulonnel   Total        %        Aioumint
1. Invesimenl Costs
A. Travaux                       4,141,520.0            -   12,424,560.0                  6.212,2800    22.778.360.0   5.0   1,138.9180
11. Eqauipaeniies               59.644.080.0  108.530,976.0  196,125,600.0   4.960,824.0    36.404.315 4  405.665.795.4  9.7  39.428,6094
C. Fonnaliol                    22,371,560.0   43,405,008.0   35,376,336.0         -     6,519,552.0  107,672,456.0    5.0   5,383.622.8
0. Consultait                   59,587.8000             *   15,890,080.0  51.833,859.1                127,311,739 1    6.8   8,623,651.0
Tolal liivestisient Cosls       145,744.96Q 0   151,935.984.0  259,816,576.0  56,794,683.1    49,136,147.4  663,428,350.5  8.2   5.674,801.1
11. Recurfent Costs
A. Maintenance Equipement                -              .   31,362,000.0           -       50$,792.0   31,863,792.0    0.1      25,089.6
D. Salaike                      16,860,211.2    4,327,956.0   11,290,320.0         .    14,173.115.0   46.651,602.2    1.8    843,010.6
E. Foutilure de bureau                                                                    3,861,289.4    3,861,289.4'   100    386,128.9
F. Caiburant                                                14,112,900.0           -    21,451,608.0   35,564,508.0    3 0    1,0172,580 4
G. Fsatsdelonctionnement        10,274.1912             -   11,290,320.0           -    48,172.0320   69,736,5432      4.2   2,922,311.2
Total Recurrent Costs            27,134,402.4    4,327,9560   68,055.5400                 88,159,836.5  187.677,734.9    2.8   5,249,120.7
Total BASELINE COSTS             172.879.362.4  156,263,940.0  327,872,1160   56,794.683 1   137.295,9839   851,106.0854  7.0  59,823,921.8
Physical Contingencies          13,382,444A1   12,396,108.0   22,197,100.8   3,087,775.4  8,160.4855    59,823,921.8     -
Price Contingencies             15,466,984.6    8,254,630.0   21,357,665.7   6,707,899.7    12,533,190.1   64,320,370.1  5.0   3,244,665.0
Total PROJECT COSTS              201,728,791 2  176,914,678.0  372,026,890 5  66,590,358.1   157,989,659.5  975,250,377.3  6.5  63,068,586.8
Taxes                           12.527,289.0   13,200,885.2   27,202,010.5    682,257.3  8,692,428 6   62,304,870.5    8.5   5,283,303.3
Foreign Exchange                50,276,603.1   94,292,036.8  198,194,567.0   4,873,266.3    43,122,305.1  390,758,778.3  8.9  34,972,495.7
0 L
t-h
I-A



Annex 6
Page 1 of 8
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A.    Procurement
No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Mauritania's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence
over any contrary provisions in local regulations. Procurement of works, goods and consultant services financed
by the IDA credit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, and revised September 1997) and Guidelines for the
Selection of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in September
1997. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with
Mauritania's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that: (i) any bidder is given sufficient
time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding
documents; (iii) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors and manufacturers; (iv) no eligible firms
is precluded from participation, regardless of nationality; (v) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder;
and (vi) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents are submitted to IDA and found
acceptable. IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all ICB procurements. Bidding
documents agreed upon by IDA and used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in the Health Sector
Investment Project (HSIP) will be used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurements under the
Program.
In regard to selection and contracting for consultants services, the Bank's "Standard request for proposal-
selection of Consultant (dated July 1997, revised April 1998) will be followed. One ICB contract document and
one NCB document for procurement of civil works and goods have been reviewed and approved by IDA during
appraisal and will be approved during negotiations. As part of the Program Implementation Manual, the SECF is
preparing a draft procurement/disbursement plan for the first program year. It will be reviewed by IDA during
negotiations. Further plans after the implementation period of one year will be reviewed and updated at least one
month prior to the start of each program year.
Procurement under the project will be handled by a manager recruited by SECF for the duration of the
program. If needed, the Project Management Unit (UGP, or Unite de Gestion du Projet), newly created in the
SECF, will make the necessary arrangement for the additional training in Dakar of the recruited staff in
procurement and disbursement techniques. The manager of UGP in the SECF will be responsible for the overall
activity planning, the preparation of equipment lists and any other information needed to prepare bidding
documents for the procurement of goods. All technical specifications for nutritional and small agricultural
equipment (for women cooperatives ) will be prepared by NGOs and in case of difficulties by a specialized
consulting firm. Also, to facilitate implementation, small and urgent procurement may be done through IAPSO
for specialized equipment and through UNICEF or other non-governmental organizations (as long as it is the least
cost solution) particularly for drugs (micro-nutrients, etc..) -- in accordance with the provisions described below
for the procurement of goods. For all other procurement handled by UGP, the procurement methods described
below and summarized in Table A will apply.
Civil Works' Contracts financed by IDA during the first year (totaling US$ 130,000) covering the storage
warehouse for SECF in Nouakchott, the rehabilitation of three Regional Offices (Antennes Regionales), and the
rehabilitation of CFCM would be procured: (i) through NCB for the warehouse (estimated $ 60,000) and (ii)



Annex 6
Page 2 of 8
under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors invited in writing to bid ( each contract estimated less than $ 30,000) . The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards would be made to the
contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. A separate contract will be signed under services
for architect and supervision services when required.
Goods' total cost is estimated at US$ 2.2 million, include small equipment and supplies, communication
equipment (rural radio and recording equipment, video,...), training center equipment and supplies, warehouse
stacking and operational equipment, transport vehicles, pharmaceuticals and nutritional supplies, technical
manuals and learning materials, and office furniture, equipment and consumable. NCB procedures will be
followed for individual contracts with estimated value of US$ 20,000 or more but not exceeding US$ 100,000,
while national shopping procedures will be followed for contracts below the US$20,000 threshold, provided the
aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed US$ 690,000. Procurements will be bulked where feasible
into packages valued at US$ 100,000 or more and will be procured primarily through ICB. It is estimated that
during the 3 years duration of the project:
a) Small equipment (mostly agricultural and food processing) and radio will be purchased by (i) ICB for
US$ 1,460,000; (ii) NCB for US$ 290,000; and (iii) other means for US$ 220,000, using the national
shopping procedure: lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of the lowest quotation, each
time obtained from three qualified domestic suppliers invited in writing to bid ( each contract estimated
less than $ 20,000).
b) Small nutritional and medical equipment and furniture for Community Nutrition Centers for a total
value of US$ 177,000 will be purchased as follows: Pharmaceuticals, small medical equipment for a
total value of US$117,000 would be procured through the UNICEF Procurement and Assembly Center
(UNIIPAC) and/or furniture and office equipment for a total value of US$ 60,000 through the Inter-
Agency Procurement Services of the UNDP (TAPSO). It has been shown in Mauritania and several other
West African countries, that procurement from specialized UN agencies is the most economical and
efficient way of procuring for equipment and drugs which are needed at the beginning of a project and in
small quantities. Since this LIL is of short duration it appears the most appropriate way.
c) One Rural radio broadcasting station will be purchased by lCB for US$ 330,000 during the first year.
d) Computers will purchased by NCB for up to US$ 50,000 (each contract estimated less than $ 20,000)
and by national shopping, based on price quotation obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, for up
to US$ 20,000.
e) Vehicles for a total value of US$ 217,000 will be purchased by UNDP (IAPSO). It has been shown
in Mauritania (after consulting Resident Mission and several UN agencies) and several other West
African countries, that procurement of a small number of vehicles from IAPSO is the most economical
and efficient way.
Implementation of the program will require the purchase of relatively small, mainly consumable items, by NGOs
and SECF local offices and women cooperatives around the country, which would be difficult and impractical to
package and procure following NCB procedures. The total amount is estimated not to exceed $ 80,000 and
includes agricultural tools, fences, seeds, irrigation pipes, small construction material, carts, etc.. Therefore the



Annex 6
Page 3 of 8
list and prices of authorized purchases and authorized suppliers will be agreed with NGOs as part of lump-sum
contracts. The suppliers will be selected each year by SECF on the basis of their quotations for standard items
required by the project.
B.    CONSULTANT SERVICES
NGO and Consultant Services and Training financed by IDA during the program years would be for: (i)
training of women's cooperatives, preparation of microproject documents (to be carried out mainly by NGOs),
data collection for evaluation of impact, and studies; (ii) design and operation of accounting systems, audit and
impact analysis (iii) short term consultancies for specific technical matters. These NGOs/SECF contracts will be
processed as services for training participating women's cooperatives. Training, NGOs and Consultants financed
by IDA, are estimated at US$1,440,000; NGOs and Consultants would be hired in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January, 1997, revised
September 1997. It will be addressed through competition among qualified short-listed NGOs and firms in which
the selection will be based on Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the
proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided. For audits and services of a standard nature
the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will be the most appropriate method -- the firm with the lowest price will be
selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum mark. Consultants services for assistance on
prototype design and management, microprojects implementation, training curricula and modules (estimated at
less than US$100,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US$365,000) would be based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ), taking into account the NGO-consultant's experience and competence relevant to the
assignment. The criteria to be used for the selection of NGOs is specified in the Implementation manual. Selected
NGOs will include in their lump-sum contract their overhead and administrative cost.
Services for short term or ad hoc consultancies and small studies which can be delivered by Individual
Consultants will be selected through comparison of qualifications against job description requirements among
those expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly. For training abroad and in-country, the
program -- containing names of candidates, cost estimates, content of the courses, periods of training, institution
selection -- would be reviewed by IDA annually.
Short-lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants if
a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms
have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration. The standard Letter of Invitation and Form
of Contract as developed by the Bank will be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be
used for short-term assignments, simple missions of standard nature i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried
out by individual consultants or fimns. The Government was briefed during negotiations about the special features
of the new guidelines, in particular with regards to advertisement and public bid opening.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US $ million equivalent including taxes, duties and contingencies)
Procure                               Total
ment                                  Cost
method
Expenditure          ICB       NCB       Other   N.B.F
Category
1   Civil Works                     0.06      0.07               0.13
(0.06)   (0.07)              (0.13)
2   Goods                  1.46     0.29      0.44      0.01      2.2
(1.46)   (0.29)   (0.44)   (0.01)   (2.2)
Of which:
Small equipment       1.13      0.29      0.22     0.01      1.65
(1.13)   (0.29)   (0.22)   (0.01)   (1.65)
Vehicle                                   0.22               0.22
(0.22)             (0.22)
Radio                 0.33                                   0.33
(0.33)                                 (0.33)
3   Training                                  0.68                0.68
(0.68)             (0.68)
4   Services                                  0.76                0.76
(0.76)             (0.76)
5   Operating Costs                           1.13                1.13
(1.13)             (1.13)
Total Costs           1.46      0.35      3.08     0.01      4.9
Total Financed by  (1.46)   (0.35)   (3.08)   (0.01)   (4.9)
IDA
Note: ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; Other procedures for
equipment includes Limited International Bidding, Local Shopping, and Inter-Agency Procurement Services of
the UNDP (IAPSO).
Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
IDA Review. All contracts for purchase of goods above the threshold value of US$100,000 will be
subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The use of IDA's SBD would considerably expedite the prior review
process as IDA review would primarily focus on invitation to bid, bid data sheet, contract data, technical
specifications, bill of quantities/schedule of requirements and other contract-specific items. Draft standard
bidding documents for NCB were reviewed by and agreed upon with IDA during negotiations. Prior review will
include the review of budgets, short-lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports
and draft contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and
individuals estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent respectively. However, the
exception to prior IDA review will not apply to the Terns of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to
single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value above the prior review threshold. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000



Annex 6
Page 5 of 8
and more than US$100,000 the borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to
opening the fmancial proposals. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be
maintained by the borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The SECF/UGP
will be required to maintain all relevant procurement documentation for subsequent review by IDA. The
SECFIUGP will submit to IDA periodic procurement schedules detailing each procurement in progress and
completed as part of the normal project reporting exercise.
All thresholds stated in this section shall be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA on an annual basis.
Modifications may be agreed upon based on performance and actual values of procurements implemented.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement would be required after the implementation period of the first two program
years.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure     Contract Value        Procurement                  Contracts Subject to
Category       (Threshold)           Method                       Prior Review *
ICB    NCB   QCBS
1. Civil Works   Less than $ 30,000                 National       Aggregate amount
Shopping      US$ 70,000
Procedure
More than $ 30,000           X                     No review.
Not exceeding                                      One contract: $ 60,000
US $100,000
2. Goods    X     ____ _X
above US$100,000     X                             Prior IDA review
below US$100,000      -      X                     No review. Aggregate
above US$20,000                                    Amount: US$280,000
below US$100,000             ..    IAPSO or        No review.
UNIPAC        Aggregate amount:
US$412,000
below US$20,000              .      X              No review aggregate
Amount:
Local: US$100,000
Intern: US$410,000
below US$5,000 direct               X              No review.
purchase from                                      Aggregate amount:
manufacturers or                                   US$25,000
authorized dealers



Annex 6
Page 6 of 8
.....    .    .     .....       . .......... .   .. ...
3. Services                                                            All TORs or sole
Source contracts are
Subject to IDA prior
Review
Audit            N/A                    N/A    N/A    Least Cost       Prior Review
Firms            Above US$ 1 00,000     N/A    N/A    Consultants'   Prior Review
Qualifications
QCBS
Training,
Microprojects
design/supervisio X
logistics, IEC.
Above US$100,000       N/A    N/A    X                Prior Review +
(i) notification of
Technical Evaluation
Scores, (ii) combined
Evaluation report
Individuals                             N/A    N/A                     Post Review
As a condition for negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA: (a) a draft procurement plan for the
first project year; (b) a draft Project Operational Manual including an Implementation plan specifying target time
periods for the various procurement phases; and (c) standard bidding documents to be used under NCB
procedures for civil works and goods. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the proper monitoring of
procurement, as well as the standard procurement documents to be used for NCB. The Government gave
assurance at negotiations that it would: (a) use the Project Operational Manual for project Implementation; (b)
use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB and the Standard Bid Evaluation Report; (c) apply the
procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in the above documents; and (d) review the procurement plan
and procurement arrangements each year (immediately after the annual review with IDA and other donors and
before the beginning of the next fiscal year). During implementation, all bidding documents, bid evaluation
reports, and draft contracts transmitted to IDA for review will contain an updated copy of the procurement
planning. Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    prompt recording of contract award information by the Borrower; and
(b)   semi-annual reports to the Bank by the Borrower indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total project, including best estimates of allowances for contingencies; (ii) revised timing of
estimated procurement actions, including experience with completion time and completion cost for individual
contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 8
A detailed procurement plan for works, goods and services to be procured under the two first project years was
prepared and was agreed upon during negotiations. It will be updated and reviewed on a regular basis during
annual reviews. The Government gave assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary measures to ensure
that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Maximum number of weeks
* Preparation of bidding documents           4 (12 for large contracts)
* Preparation of bids by bidders             4 (6 for ICB)
* Bid evaluation                             2 (4 for large contracts)
* Signature of contracts                     2
* Payments                                   4
B.    Disbursement
The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA credit will be disbursed over a
period of three years (from 1999 to 2001), with a closing date of May 15, 2002. The estimated disbursement
schedule is shown in Table D. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented,
except for contracts not subject to prior review by IDA. For the rest, disbursements will be made against
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the Director of the UGP/SECF . Supporting documentation will
be retained by UGP/SECF and will be available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions and
program auditors.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                               Amount in US$   Financing Percentage
Million
1. Civil works (Warehouse, CFCM, regional offices)   0.13           90 %
2. Goods (including Agricultural, Medical         2.28              100% of foreign and 95%
equipment, Radio, drugs, office equipment, vehicles,                of local expenditures
and furniture)
3. Services (including long term TA, short term    1.38             100%
consultancy, civil works contract management, audit,
ting, reporting, supervision, and training)
4. Operating Costs I/                              1.08             90%
Total IDA credit                                  4.9
1/    Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of program
implementation, management and supervision, including office supplies, office equipment and vehicles
operation and maintenance, contractual services and travel and allowances including those for trainers
and trainees, but excluding salaries of officials of the borrower's civil service.



Annex 6
Page 8 of 8
Table D: Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (US$ million)
IDA        1999       2000       2001       2002        Total
Fiscal Year
Annual        0.2        1.8        2.0        0.9         4.9
Cumulative   0.2         2.0        4.0        4.9        4.9
Cumulative   4 %         41%        82%        100%       100%
A Special Account will be opened for the IDA credit and maintained with a commercial bank, acceptable
to IDA. The maximum balance in the Special Account will be US$300,000, which will cover about 4 months of
expenditures, to be disbursed from the Special Account.



Annex 7
Pagel of 3
ANNEX 7
Institutional Organization
A.         Institutional organization                                     ERE DES AFFAIRES
ECONOMIQUES ET DU
Bailleursdefonds                                                    DEVELOPPEMENT
SECF
MSAS                          |SECF                            MAED
MDRE                                                           MSAS S
UNICEF                           UNITE DE                    |MF        |UE .       |...|t;OnterveS
FAQ                                                            MCRP         FAtiIdL
,NG's _(UGP) -O SATIONA PAOU   Ad'ut
l WMITE TECHNlqUE [        PROJE                     S EC  NURTON
DE CONCERTATION________
ONG                                                                                Sces d.centralis6s du
5 I GIE                                    |                                        ) | **- { IMDRE, MSAS,....
lJ-Autres Assoc.2                   |                                     * -   Collectivites locales
- Autres projets
Coop6ratives                             Coop6ratives f6minines
nfemines           |                     |- M6nages              |
I- M6nages                               |- Femmes individuelles |
|-Femmes indWiduellesl                    - Enfants de 0  A 5 ans
Enfants de 0 a 5 ans
f  Nttt'  lNb



Annex 7
Page2 of 3
LEGENDE: Institutional Organization
4-*           N6gociations entre Gvt et BF
C      3      Relations de collaboration
- - - - - -   MaTttse d'oeuvre aux ONG et autres
*0.   Mandat d'execution confi6e au
SECF et evaluation exteme par ONS
....... 0- 'Orientation, Conseils, Recommandations
Relations hi6rarchiques directes
..........................
................ Suiv Membres observateurs du CNN
............Suivi-contr6le d'ex6cution des MP



Annex 7
Page3 of 3
B.      Decentralized organizations
MAED                       Secretariat d'Etat a la                    Autres Ministbres
Condion F_minine                      .. .... .
(S.E.C.F..)
rcomit6 de Direction         i
du projet        .--                 
m n          uratr-Gestionn
~~ionnis6Senior~~oIogue                                - C~omptable
Nutritionniste Snior   SociologuAide-comptable                                          :CN
WALI
H.AKEM                |       ....... ;.3,ANTENNES REGIONALES DU SECF
I   . 
R6gonal
Cellule Micro-Projets                             Cellule Nutrition
I Agro-economiste                              1   Nutritionniste
:________  Liens hi6rarchiques
Liens d'appui
Liens consuKtatifs
CTC                     Comite Technique de Concertation
ANC                     Agent de Nutrition Communautaire
ASC                     Agent de Sante Communautaire
MAED                    Ministere des Affaires Economiques et du DAveloppement
l               :       Centre de Formation en Nutrition Communautaire



Annex 8
Page 1 of 7
Annex 8
Monitoring and Evaluation
A.   Background information
1.    A clear distinction will be made between the terms of "monitoring" and of "evaluation"
both in the concept and in choice of the executing agencies.
a)    Monitoring will refer to the regular supervision and follow-up of the progress made
towards delivery of goods and services, construction of infrastructures,
disbursement of credit, compliance with reached agreements, etc... Monitoring
would therefore be considered as a "process" oriented task and as a follow-up of
"inputs" aiming at verifying whether the project is implementing the intended
interventions as planned.
b)    Evaluation, on the other hand, will refer primarily to the impact of the project on the
beneficiaries according to pre-established indicators and gauge progress towards the
achievement of the project objectives. It is therefore an "output" rather than
"process" oriented approach.
2.    In order to increase the objectivity of the evaluation process, monitoring and evaluation will
be conducted by separate institutions. Monitoring of the implementation of microprojects and
nutrition interventions will be under the responsibility of the project monitoring unit: Unite de
Gestion du Projet or UGP, whereas the evaluation of its impact will be conducted mostly by the
Office National de la Statistique (ONS). For both monitoring and evaluation work, other relevant
institutions will be called upon to collaborate, provide assistance or carry out part of the M & E.
SECF will also monitor project implementation through reports, monitoring studies, audits,
supervision missions and beneficiaries assessment techniques.
B.   Monitoring of project activities
3.    Monitoring will be the responsibility of the UGP, based on reports from regional Antennas
of SECF, participating NGOs, field visits by UGP staff and "ad hoc" surveys requested when
necessary from consultants. Each participating NGO will indicate every semester progress made on
each of the microprojects under their responsibility. These forms would be designed by the UGP
according to each project implementation schedule and objectives, in such a way as to be processed
by a computer data management system. Key indicators to be used for monitoring would be
elaborated in collaboration with the ONS in charge of the evaluation to ensure and enhance their
relevancy for future evaluation. The information would be analyzed and transmitted to ONS so as
to permit appropriate planning. The information generated will be consolidated by UGP and used
for the preparation of its semiannual progress reports to be sent for discussions to the Technical
Committee and project financiers. The following table provides an estimate of monitoring
indicators for project activities. However, given the demand-driven approach adopted, flexibility



Annex 8
Page 2 of 7
will be essential and timetables will have to be adjusted annually in response to the demands of the
women's cooperatives.
a) Key indicators used for monitoring
4.    In view of the diversity of the microprojects, the selection of indicators will be tailored to
each combination of interventions. However, a number of specific indicators will be similar for the
same type of intervention to ensure comparability in assessment of progress and achievement. In
addition, the degree of beneficiary ownership and involvement in the decision-making process
related to micro-projects preparation and implementation would be assessed as a prerequisite for the
continuation and sustainability of the activities. For each micro-project, data to be collected by the
NGO and UGP would refer to:
Nutrition interventions
Anthropometric and nutrition status before and after intervention
Level of nutritional knowledge of care-providers
Number of children weighed
Number of mothers attending sessions
Iron, folate, iodine, vitamin supplements distributed
Oral rehydration therapies initiated
Morbidity and mortality
Cases of rehabilitation of severe malnutrition
Income generating microprojects
Number of participants/beneficiaries.
Completion of works
Characteristics of productions/services created
Average cost per microproject
Income generated
b) Monitoring of NGOs performance
5.   In addition to the information collected through the forms to be filled by the NGOs,
supervision missions will visit micro-projets and community nutrition interventions at regular
intervals to assess the progress made. NGOs performance would be assessed yearly, when
approving budgets and work programs, according to progress made in achieving targets and the
capacity to mobilize women cooperatives participation. If a NGO is not performing satisfactorily, a
decision will be made regarding the continuation of the collaborative agreement between the
project and the NGO by the Coordinating Committee after proposition of the UGP. This will be
made on the basis of all relevant information available to the Project and the decision will be
notified within mutually agreed delays to the NGO.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 7
c) Monitoring of compliance with financial and procurement covenants
6.    UGP would set up an analytical accounting and financial management system to monitor
costs by activity and by site to develop standard costs of works, goods and services and maintain
their level at competitive standards. An audit firm would be recruited by the Government to verify
compliance with the procurement and disbursement arrangements under the Credit Agreement and
the implementation manual. They would also review the financial statements, the performance of
the cost recovery system and of financial management.
C.   Evaluation of impact
7.    Since the project aims at reducing food insecurity and malnutrition and alleviating poverty,
evaluation will focus on a) nutritional status, anthropometric indicators, health of participating
populations, b)food supply, stability and access indicators; c) household income, stocks, workload
of women, socio-economic standards of living. The objective of the evaluation is to assess whether
the project has improved the nutritional status of mothers and children, the quality of life inside and
outside the direct intervention areas. The project might have a spill-over effect beyond the targeted
women cooperatives. The indicators used will also include non quantitative features, such as
community participation, access to information, mobility, preservation of valuable skills and
traditions, status of women and other variables which will be part of the evaluation scheme.
a) Organization
8.    The Office National de la Statistique (ONS) of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Development (MEAD) would be the lead agency responsible for the overall evaluation of project
impact. As such, it will have the responsibility of conducting an initial benchmark survey and a
final appraisal of micro-projects' impact, out of a representative sample of micro-projects. ONS and
UGP will carry out the sampling design of microprojects to be evaluated. ONS will make
arrangements with its own staff, students or with reliable technicians to survey the households
before and after completion of the microprojects.
9.    The UGP will review the proposed evaluation scheme and will sign a formal agreement
with ONS for each set of microprojects indicating the methods of evaluation, the cost and the
deadline at which the evaluation report will be handed to the UGP. The methods will be based on
approved scientific and ethical standards of biological and social sciences. If blood samples are
considered necessary, the informed consent of the participants will be obtained prior to the surveys.
10.   ONGS will be authorized to commission specific evaluation tasks to other centers or
institutions (NGOs, Universities) provided that these institutions are not already part of the
microproject to be assessed. Whenever possible surveys would be grouped in such way as to
minimize transportation costs and duration of field work.
11.  Intermediate beneficiary assessment would also be conducted with participating NGOs to
gauge relevancy of the interventions with respect to beneficiaries' expectations. Effective targeting
of rural groups would be evaluated to ensure that the most disadvantaged segments of the rural
population benefit of project activities. Group discussions with villagers would be the basis of



Annex 8
Page 4 of 7
beneficiary assessments, therefore villagers should have a strong say in the evaluation of the
microprojects and a clear perception of its impact, if any.
12.   To the extent possible, micro-projects' impact on targeted groups would be compared to a
without project situation of similar groups in the area, to assess the changes in standards of living
and nutritional status brought by the project.
b) Nutrition activities
13.   The most valuable input for the evaluation of the nutrition component would be the
information collected by the Auxiliaires de Nutrition Community Nutrition Workers (CNW) during
her monitoring activities. CNW will in particular instruct mothers on how to record episodes of
diarrhea, respiratory diseases and clinical sign of nutritional deficiencies in the children aged 0-5
years that they monitor (Protein-energy malnutrition, iron deficiency anemia, iodine deficiency
disorders, and vitamin A deficiency). Anthropometric indicators for children will include height for
age, weight for height and weight for age. If this has been performed in a satisfactory manner, it
will also be used to evaluate the changes in morbidity among project's beneficiaries.
14.   Family members in vulnerable groups benefiting from the project, will undergo a rapid
survey on signs of nutritional deficiencies including anthropometric measurements (weight, height,
arm circumference and age of children) by the evaluation team. Adults will be interviewed on their
food consumption. Dietary recalls and food frequency records will be used to assess changes in the
dietary pattern of children and adults. If determinations of biochemical indices are necessary as part
of the interventions against iron, iodine or other micronutrients deficiencies, a contract will be made
with a private laboratory for analysis of the samples.
15.   Results of measurements and salient observations made (anthropometry, clinical exam,
biological tests,...) should be explained and displayed to participating villagers. Clear and visible
explanation of progress made should be given and shown regularly to villagers to generate interest
and support for nutrition activities.
c) Micro-projects
16.   Micro-projects evaluation will not be limited to quantifiable outputs and pre-identified
targets but will extend to a qualitative analysis of behavioral changes of groups in community
development and sustainability at the ground level.
17.   A number of indicators will assess the intrinsic qualities of the microprojects from a long
term perspective:
a)    the relevance of the microproject as a response to the identified causes of food
insecurity,
b)    the adequacy of group targeting in reference to the most vulnerable segments of the
community,
c)    the replicability of the intervention considering its cost and nature,



Annex 8
Page 5 of 7
d)   its sustainability in term of likelihood of continuation beyond the micro-project's
life,
e)   the changes in attitude affecting the community's capacity and willingness to
undertake other activities,
f)   the long term impact on the environment of the selected microprojects.
18.   The evaluation of the immediate impact on women cooperatives will compare the
before/after status of relevant indicators on a representative sample of micro-projects. They include:
a)    Diet diversification : frequency of consumption of valued foods such as pulses,
fruits, vegetables, meat and fish.
b)    Nutritional care of children: level of knowledge and practices of care providers.
c)    Revenue: household income, debt situation, performance of the cost recovery
system, income distribution among the group, utilization of income...
d)    Work load: work load of women, changes in use of tools, new technologies....
D.   Training in monitoring and evaluation
19.   Practical training sessions to NGO staff in project monitoring and evaluation techniques
will be given at an early stage by the project monitoring coordinator together with the ONS. This
will include the selection of appropriate indicators, verification of accuracy, data collection
techniques, reliability and statistical validity of data.
Key Monitoring Indicators
Years              1         2         3     Total
Nutrition                     1999     2000      2001
Nbr. ACS/ACN                  40       100       140    140
Nbr. children in growth      6,120     11,040    11,040  28,200
surveillance
Nbr prevented cases of        1,224    2,208    2,208   5,640
malnutrition by supplem.
Feeding, rehab. centers &
surveillance
Overall reduction of malnutrition  4 %  20 %     30 %    30%
Women in lactating/pregnancy    3,060  5,520    5,520   14,100
follow-up                                                            l
Micro-projects
Nbr. Contrats NGOs            10        20       30      30



Annex 8
Page 6 of 7
Income generating  nbr'           30          60         140      140
Socio-economic
- storage nbr.                   10         20         20
- agrculture                     10         20         20
- retail stores, others nbr.     10         20         100
Community Nutrition centers3      17         23         26        26
Nbr. direct beneficiaries
- Income generating              1,500      3,000      7,000
- Socio-economic                 1,500      3,000      7,000
Nbr.direct & indirect benef. 1/   3,000       6,000      14,000
Explanation Chart for Community Nutrition centers
Nouakhott.                                             =        
(6 outlying
neighborhoods)
Nbr of centers   12                 18           =         8
Nbr of children   30                40                40
/center
Total children    360               720               720               _
Nbr of rotations  12                12                12
Nbr total         4320              8640              8640              21600
children
Nouadhibou
(5 outlying
neighborhoods)
Nbr of centers    5                 5                 5
I The number of micro-projects correspond to the number of beneficiaries' groups. Each NGO's intervention may
comprise several micro-project for different groups.
2 vegetable gardens, small irrigation, fish farming, handicraft, food processing, animal husbandry
3See chart above for further details.



Annex 8
_______________     Page  7  of 7
Nbr children/   30            40             40
center
Total children   150          200            200
Nbr of rotations  12          12              12
Nbr total      1800           2400           2400            6600
d'enfants
Total         6120           11040          11404           28200



Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
Annex 9
Calendar for the implementation of the new disbursement procedure
Loan Administrative Change Initiative - LACI
A.          Definition
The new mode of disbursement will require the production of the following quarterly reports:
(i) financial statements, (ii) project progress, and (iii) procurement management. The
following action plan foresees the eventual adoption of LACI after September 30, 2001.
B.          Action Plan
1. Manuel comptable                    Emprunteur        31/03/1999
2. Manuel des procedures administratives et  Emprunteur  31/03/1999
financieres
3. Choix et acquisition du materiel    Emprunteur        31/04/1999
informatique et des logiciels
4. Formation technique sur le materiel  Emprunteur       15/05/1999
informatique et les logiciels
5. Parametrage et demarrage des applications Emprunteur  15/06/1999
6. Ateliers de formation du personnel  Emprunteur        31/06/1999
7. Date d'entree en vigueur du credit  Emprunteur /IDA    31/06/1999
8. Point de depart de l'emission des rapports  Emprunteur  30/12/1999
de gestion trimestriels du projet
9. Evaluation des capacit6s de gestion  IDA              30/09/2001
financiere de passation des marches et
d'execution physique du projet
10. Mise en place eventuelle de la procedure  Emprunteur / IDA   31/12/2001
decaissement LACI



Status of Bank Group Operations in Mauritania
Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                      Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 33
Active Projects
MR-PE-35689      1998   MINISTRY OF HEALTH & SOCI         HEALTH SECTOR                0.00       24.00             0.00         24.38      2.17        0.00
INVEST
MR-PE-1875       1997   GOVERNMENT                        RAINFED NAT RES MGT          0.00       18.00             0.00          16.36       .76       0.00
MR-PE-46650      1997   OMVS                              REGIONAL POWER               0.00       11.10             0.00           9.34     5.54        0.00
MR-PE-1874       1996   MINISTRY OF PLAN                  PUBLIC RESOURCE              0.00       21.00             0.00           7.25     1.79        -.92
MGMT
MR-PE-34106      1996   ISL. REP. OF MTA                  INFRAST & PILOT              0.00       14.00             0.00         10.07      9.08        0.00
DEC.
MR-PE-1857       1995   GOVT OF MAURITANIA                GENERAL EDUCATION            0.00       35.00             0.00         19.31    14.04         0.00
PR
MR-PE-38661      1995                                     FIN/PRIV.SCTR.CAPAC          0.00        7.20             0.00           2.45     2.95        2.55
I
MR-PE-1864       1994   GOVERNMENT                        AGRIC SERVICES               0.00       18.20             0.00           6.70     3.09        0.00
MR-PE-1872       1993   GOVERNMENT                        TECHNICAL/VOCATIONA          0.00       12.50             0.00           6.85     6.91        0.00
L
Total                                                                                  0.00      161.00             0.00        102.71    46.33         1.63
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   54.56              497.11              551.67
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               159.72              159.72
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  161.00              325.10              486.10
Amount sold                                        0.00                63.35               63.35
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               63.35               63.35
Total Undisbursed                :               102.71                3.57               106.28
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
aqX
CDte
Generated by the Operations Information System (QIS)



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
Mauritania at a glance                                                                  10/1/98
Sub-
~Ajottaw~   ~I!ie    ~~e      Development dlamond*
P4opulatjon mid-year (iIi;s Z.4                                  $14        1                    Life expectancy
GNP per capitalAftsmeYfiod, 4$                         450        600       3501 I
GNP (Atlas method, US$ bi                          1: 1           309    722 3
Popuation M%                                           2.5        2.7       2.11
Labor force (s')                     2.7       2.8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1, GN                             Gross
Mvesut rcet91         7);t000i00; estlnitt0ieto00 (laes yea maa     1991-Sn00-i-Li;tt0i;2   capita                  enroUrment   ;
Li-e  .etn  at bErt (years)                              53         2i       59i6i                                             :;
tInfant mrrortaity p  1SQO0live itrths);;t 9t it;0 0gi:t.it|2i010tttt;0f; 90 tt44ti0T78 tt0$j
Child malnuttiition %t dfcifdren: undr5       tt                       E-  !:;::::giS:tg48 : :000i  :g: i Qi .,. .......................... 6  : :fP1 :t  E Access to safe water 
Illiteracy (% of population age 15E)  62     43         47~~~per                                pimar
Gross !Primary enrllment; f% ofE s)ho0l-oe Pula )       78         75        9iteno1 Mauntii                           m
Grow',iMalerZfl                                                 it;      0;t 85    i     4  82;     1ip00  Low-income group
Female  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~72~                      67         81 4      _______________
Economic ratlos*
GrsDP]dmesticinieslqient/GDP                 42.4A     30.8      2          19.0d
Exports of goods and ...e.......ce. s'GDP E  C040 38.5  5 :E     ti38.E    s6:4 5.i3.86453           Trade 45
Gross domesticaigsGPt T                                  7       1a3.90ii   -.1 32i
Gross national saving3s/GOP.0tL S7tEi d:St005 :j202     32 .0T        t17.3 -ilXgl|ili;175.9l00i;       
entacOount balanceiGOP          ..    2~~~~7.4   -4,7 1HI 341!!&
Interest paymenerDItgGop : :  i000000:;;00--0 .::    0010-; 03.9:i04tg; ;0E; :3  j3.0:H  Domestic               Investment
Totaldebt/GOP                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~77.8    217.8  220.7  216 5: Saing
Totatdehtb;tservid,elexprts .:;:             12.5      20.8f i00:;::      '  D-ESR'<tt1Z   17.7  1 '.72
P resent  va#lue of d debt/GOP                  .. .tCE::|tgEELi: :    t  '  i i0XiiL00tSiX. .. : 145  A : -  XfssdS;E,4:
Indebtedness
ilf; ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ 1765 X    0 -:0          10 1957-97  f  19980ittii:1littl19e 997: 88
cavrae emrlgowt,l
GQP                                  1.8       3.3      4,7     S           4.5                -Mauntania
GNPpercapita                        -1 1       1.0      1,9       2.9       2.1                    Low-incomeonup              f
Expt oFo   ad seiMr                  7.8       0 9      7.3Of    -a1 5se.8v ic0esQ3   _          _           _ :
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996       1997      Growth rates of output and investment (.)
('Y of GDP)                                                                          4
Agriculture                                   28.5     26.6      24.8       25.5
Industry                                     33.9      31.1      31.6      29.0      20
Manufacturing                                 ..    13.1        12.0       9.7      o
ServAces                                     37.7      42.2      43.6      45.5    -20       92   93         9S   96
Private consumption                          65.2      80.5      72.2      74.6      401 
General government consumption               31.8      11.8      13.9       122                              1
Imports of goods and services                77.9      79.3      61.8      51 0                      GDI        GDP
(average annual growth)                   1976486  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    3.2      3.2        3.3       9.6    40
Industry                                      2.6       2.6       2.9       -1.8
Manufacturing                                 ..      0.1        9.4     -15.3    20
Services                                      -0.1      3.8       7.2       7.5
Private consumption                           3.1       3.3      -3.1      13.4      o                             9 
General govemment consumption                -9.9       6.6       3.1       -8.0                              s
Gross domestic investment                    -2.0       0.0      27.5       -9.5    -20
Imports of goods and services                 1.6      -0.9       3.0    -11.4                -Exports        ^ rports
Gross national product                         1.5      3.6       4.5       5.5    _
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
Mauritania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic pdcas                              1976     1986      1996      1997     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          T
Consumer prices                                       7.4       4.7       5.0
Implicit GDP deflator                        8.0      7.3       3.6       5.7
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants) 
Current revenue                                      24.8      30.5      26.4             92   93   94   95  9f   97
Current budget balance                               -0.9      12.8       9.6                   GDP deflator -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -8.3       6.6       4.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1976    1986        1996     1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   418       485       413    eoo
Iron                                                142       207       216
Fish                                        ..      274       277       '197    40
Manufactures                                        24
Total imports (cif)                                   400       435       380
Food                                                 el        97        85    200
Fuel and energy                                      27       109        95
Capital goods                                       161        85        88       o
91  92  93  94  9S  98  97
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      83       100       101
Import price index (1995=t00)                          83       102        96               *Exports      *imports
Terms of trade (1995=-100)                            100        97       105   I
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1976     1986       1996      1997     Current account balance to GOP ratIo (%)
Exports of goods and services               201      463        586      497       0
Imports of goods and services               353       637       676       560
Resource balance                            -152    -184        -89       -63
Net income                                   -59      -70       -56       -52
Net current transfers                                  34        94        78          * IIl'I"
Current account balance                              -220       -52       -37    -10
Financing items (net)                                210        101        92
Changes in net reserves                      -13       10       -50       -55    -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        82       53       145       204
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)            45.0     74.4     137.2    151.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS mlillons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         407    1,749     2,415     2,376
IBRD                                        0       69          8         a                       A 6
IDA                                         19      77        359      372                  G 218        8 372
F: 24
Totaldebtservice                              26       94       113        96
IBRD                                        0        10         3         2
IDA                                         0         1         4         5                 _                  c 119
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                           115       71        176       140
Official creditors                        113       130        58        33
Private creditors                          53        3         24       -2        E 1,075                      562
Foreign direct investment                   2         5         5        3
PortFolio equity                            0        0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                 3       29         35       29      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               5       23         36       34      B - IDA    D - Other muftilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        0        6          4        4      C - F                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                   5       16         32       30   1
Interest payments                           0        5          3         3
Net transfers                               5        11        29       27
World Bank                                                                                                         10/1/98
MRTCAAGB



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29621
180                  16'                  14'                   120                  10. -                     F . T -
Spl-ih !       r         ALGERIA
MAURITANIA                                                                             Sohooj               N N
RURAL MOBILIZATION PROGRAM                                                                                  MAURITANIA                  0*
-30'                                                                       ~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30 -  N-okchot
FOR NUTRITION                                                                                                I  MALI
AREAS OF INTERVENTION  - PROTOTYPE  1                                                                    SENE.--- - --
GAL)                          NIGER
RURAL FLUVIAL REGIONS                                                               GAMBIA   _ . 2 f' BURKINA\   o
OTHER RURAL NON-FLUVIAL REGIONS                           MOROCCO                     BISSAU    GNEA               '
-28-           ////// INTERVENTION AREAS                                                             22COTEDOORE                                         >
8     RADIO TOWERS                                                                                                    I
0    SELECTED TOWNS
REGION CAPITALS                                                                  I.
@    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                   j      X%          ALGERIA
-X   -  REGiON BOUNDARIES
- *     INTERNATIONAL                                                                     I
260                   BOUNDARIES                                     ,_  ._     .        . -    -'-                                                 26
I                        AAn Ben Til;
1 l       200       300                                 I 0 Bir Mogre7n                                          Cheggoo.
I    I    I    I    I    I     I 
KILOMETERS                     FORMER
SPANISH                j                     TIRIS                              .                     .
-240                                          SAHARA                 I                ZEMMOUR                              f-                       24-
-~~~ ~ ~ -24' 
.041~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
G30 Zou6rat                            ,            
oZou6rot         0.                         :1        ~MALI
Fd6rik     OTourine                 .                             /
-22!  OTou6jil                                                                             , '                              /      \                  22
T4 i"mI c h l t/OI
|ou'                 cdhtO'             OChoum
NouLLh;-ouw  ', Loeou8r v .  _,, _  . ....7                             .uad6ne
DAKFIL1T       YAt8r                              OChiget        ADRARI
NOUADHIBU    INCHIRI                                   hinguei
200                    ,    '      -           I           oOuieft                                                 !                                20--
Nou6mgkar                Akyouitg -  - '                                                          -/ HODH ECH
'''  .' .- -i-   . .                                TAGANT                             CHARGUI  I
\I 4        Aguill Fai      Tamossqgumit                                         /
> L   O               #9           (3~~~~~~~~ ~     ~~Tidiikias  Tichit     
0                                                      0Tht                                    I
-180    NOUAKCHOTTp  TRARZA                                                            / .                                                            18
Cangar6fa .o Moudj6iri// 
 N6ma
Tibdh    Amour,.
16jT0                                                                                                     BoS.ikounou'    160
- 6                                              Kab                                                                                55v *0           16'-
P                     ~~~~~ODjigu6niI
SENEGAL                   Govroye                                             MALI
Tho otop wos produced by the Mop Des-go Jot of The World B-ok
The .oondores colors, denomntons ond -ny other if-ort-oton
*^1~                              shownoen 0hi0 top do tot o-ply o- the port of The World Book
Gro-p, o-y jodg-ett o- the 9egol stotof ory territory, or -oy
-14O  180                   1 6'                 14-                   12'j                 10'             etdorteteotorooceptoooeofochhocodornet    14_
MARCH 1999



IBRD 29624
I                             I                                        I 
180                 160                 14                 120                  100                     Fo.-     - 
MAURITANIA                                                                   SpanJr I       r        ALGERIA
POVERTY: PERCENTAGE OF POOR HOUSEHOLDS
IN CAPITAL CITY, OTHER URBAN, RURAL,                                                  300-             MAURITANIA
FLUVIAL AND NON-FLUVIAL AREAS                                                                                    i MALI
.\ . _,,__
SENEGALNIE
RURAL FLUVIAL REGIONS                                                                                                 NIGER
OTHER RURAL NON-FLUVIAL REGIONS                         MO  ROCCO                BISGAU,Bi  GUINEA  '  1                 S -
0    SELECTED TOWNS                                        20 iCOTEElVOlB>
-280                                                                                           28 -   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
    REGION CAPITALS                                                               .       86
69   NATIONAL CAPITAL6%
REGION BOUNDARIES
-   -  INTERNATIONAL                                                                         SA                 E
BOUNDARIES                                                                                      ALGERIA
SOURCE: Poverty profile Office National
260        e lo Stistique, Ma 1997                                 _, - -   - -                                                              26-
j                       A;n Ben Tili
0        100      200       300                               j   OBir Mogrehn                                      Cheggao    s
I    I   I I   I        I              FORMER
KILOMETERS                   F OR ME R.j'.
SPANISH               I                    TIRIS
SAHARA                j               ZEMMOUR                                                    24
'     ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                ~~~~ _!0  j4    
URBAN                                             0                                          0 .
(NON CAPITAL CITY)                                        o  o Zouerat                                                              MALI
Fd6rik    OTourine                                                         MALI
_  gg!;00SC_                             ; ~~~~~~~~~         ~~~OTourijil   /j                               ;29
I        -\0                                          I                        ,0"                                  *.    I
\   Lanou6r r ., h-   -.              OC-houm 
Nouddhibou P \                                                    o0uad6ne
DAiLET                   I     At6r          Cn           A DRAR 
NOUADHI  )Uf INCHIRI                             oChinguetti                                    /
-200                                                     0  0O uieft                                                                         20-
' /1         Akj,fipujt0  /    /                                                         HODH ECHj
ATLANTIC   Qou8mghar               '                                                                         H
OCEAN                                                      /               TAGANT    :    CHARGUI I
Aguilrl FPci    Tamosxqit                                         /                        I
I            0                               O iTidiikia         0Ti _ 
10   NOUAKCHOTT O  TRARZA                       a,A( 3RU                                                  L
BoutilimitO    MAgta LafsjarCongarfo r*O Moudi6ria-.   -                   NON-FLUVIAL
BRAKNA         -               Tamchsekket                          0ult
Aleg                             HODH
j   ASSABA              HODH  yo
NOUAKCI4OTT                      IMotgyeI        <3Kif         EL    3         /              3 Nbma 
NOUAKCHO1T r    1;Xffx tiu: _ , 3      ,  Z      Kai)r~~~Ko'u oudji6   GHARBIP    Ot bO     * Arn,urj
uoud ~~~  GHARBI   / ~~ Tim6.dgh.    0        Bossikounoul
160   (CAPITAL)                                        R\Kankosso                     KobenniO   i ODpguent                     0
RURALFLVAL    ~ Y 
"@Safibib s                                 MALI
ThiS -sap os produced by the Mop Design Unit f The Wod Bank.
*ouho  on- th nsp do not inply, ontepo.rtof The World Bak
Gr_up, ny jdgtt a  the lgal stOtuofay territoy, or any
r1 40  118               16                   14'                 1 2                  1 0,           endors-t or-cept-on of -uh bo-ndori-    14'1
MARCH 1999



