Report No. 548a-MAU                                         FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Nouadhibou Port Project
Mauritania
October 13, 1975
Western Africa Projects Department
Ports, Railways, and Aviation Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Wirr,ncy &1ivalonts
(krrency Unit  =  Ougya (UN)
'US$.00        =  UM I1
1           -  us$ O.*"
tIN 1 million - 0S$ 2k,OOD.
Flical reae  (oovenit  id 1trt lAtonome de Nouadkibou)
January 1 - December 31
atom of W A  a            s s   itri
M etric                       _ _   _ _   _   _
1 meter (i)               -  328 feet (t)
1 kilomWeter (ai)            0.62       (i)
1 sqcare kilaoieter ( ):  D3k        t          (eq &i)
1 kilogra-  (kg)          =  2,2 ponds (i)
1 metric ton (tI ton)    5   2020     m    (lb)
1 liter (1)                  0.22 fs g3llif ta1)
0.26 bitih              (ip gi
AbbroviattD-ns Ind ASk2612! 
BGI)M    - Buraeau Citra:L don Au±ipants dt Oure-I't (eowiltMhtl  ?rbco)
CCCE     - Caisse Contrale de Coop6ratioi t&bntf qiq
DPB/DNAA - Direction des PharaS  at galisas/Ahb iation Irternatio*qe
des Aides b kavigation (considtaante, ktA&,§)
BBC      - B%iropoati Economic Oomulity
Zm       - Etablissement Maritim  de Nott-kdiott'
FAC      - Fonds d'&ide et do Goop&ration
KFAED    - Kuwait Fund for Arab 3conomic Development
NAFCO    - Mauritania Fishing _ompany
MIFBRMA  - Mines de Fer de Mauritanie
PAN      - Port Autonome do Nouadhibou
SAMMA    - Soci6t4 d'Acconage et de Manutint4toh de Mauritanie
SORIMA - SociWt5 des Frigorifiques de Mduritanie
SZleAP    - SDci6t6 Mauritanienne de A@che
dwt      - deadweight tons
grt      - gross registered tons
IkOST    - Low Water COrdinary Spring Tides
Mm'      - Mean Low Water
OAL      - Overall Length



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY   .............................................                   i-iv
1.    INTRODUCTION   ........................................                      1
2.    BACKGROUND   ..........................................                      2
A.    Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination   ....                    2
B.    Fisheries   ......................................                    3
3.    PORT INSTALLATIONS, ORGANIZATION, AND OPERATIONS   ....                      5
A.   Facilities and Equipment   ..... ..........                            5
B.  Administration  ....................                                    6
C.  Operations ......................                                       7
D.    Budget, Accounts, Audit, and Insurance   .........                    8
E.    Tariffs and Costs   ..............................                    8
F.    Proposed Improvements   ..... ............                            9
4.    THE PROJECT   .........................................                     10
A.   Description   .......             .............................       10
B.    Costs   ....................            ......................       12
C.    Execution .............................. ........                    13
D.    Ecological Considerations   ........ ..              ............    13
E.    Financing and Disbursements   ....... ..              ...........    14
5.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION   .................................                     15
A.    Present Traffic Trends   .......... ..              .............    15
B.    Traffic Forecasts   ............         ..     ................     16
C.    Assessment of Berth Requirements   ....... ........                  17
D.    Economic Return   ......            ..........................       17
6.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION   ................................                     21
A.    Government Finances in Relation to the
Proposed Project   .............................                  21
B.    Port Finances   ..................................                   22
- Background   ...................................                   22
- Present Position   .............................                   22
- Future Prospects   .............................                   23
- Financing Plan   ...............................                   25
7.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ....               ...... ....     26
This report has been prepared by Messrs. J. Grosdidier de Matons (Senior Port
Specialist), J. Lethbridge (Port Engineer), J. Pelletey (Economist), D. Screwvala
(Financial-Analyst), and F. Bourgois (Consultant, Fisheries Specialist, FAO).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Actual Service Time and Productivity Rates at the Commercial Berths
2.   Details of Cost Estimates
3.   Details of Tenders Received for Port Construction
4.   Estimated Schedule of Project Expenditure
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from the Proposed Credit
6.   Traffic at the Fishing and Commercial Ports
7.   Traffic at the Commercial Berths
8.   Fish Landings, Actual and Forecast
9.   Exports of Fish Products
10. Commercial Berth: Assumptions Used for Port Simulation Model
11. Operating Costs and Profits of Frozen Fish and Fishmeal Industry
12. Economic Return on Consolidated Project
13. Fishing Berth: Forecast Cost and Benefit Streams, Parameters, and
Assumptions Adopted for Calculation of the Economic Return
14. Economic Return on Fishing Berth Extension
15.  Forecast of Cargo Ship Operations at the Commercial Berths
16. Commercial Berth and Approachway, Cost and Benefit Streams
17.  Economic Return on Commercial Berth Extension and Approachway
Rehabilitation
18. Income Statement of Port Authority
19. Balance Sheet Data of Port Authority
20. Statement of Source and AppLication of Funds
ANNEXES
1.   The Transport Sector
2.   Fisheries
3.   Existing Port Facilities
4.   Fishing Port Operations
5.   Nouadhibou Port Legislation
6.   Plan of Action
Attachment: Terms of Reference for Advisors in Port
Organization, Operations, and Accounting
7.   Principal Tariffs at the Port of Nouadhibou
8.   Project Description
9.   Project Implementation Schedule
10. Assumptions Underlying Traffic Forecasts
11. Principal Assumptions for Economic Evaluation
12. Assumptions for Financial Anialysis
GRAPH
Risk Analysis - Cumulative Distribution of Rate of Return on
Consolidated Project



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
MAPS
Ports and Port Traffic (IBRD 11097R)
Northwest Africa Fisheries (IBRD 11098R)
Port of Nouadhibou - Existing Installations and Project (IBRD 11099Rl)






MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        In 1971, the Government of Mauritania asked the Association to help
finance a project to expand Nouadhibou's fishing port facilities to accom-
modate increased fish landings. In 1972/73, a feasibility study was carried
out by consultants Bureau Central des Equipements d'Outremer (BCEOM, France)
with financing by a grant from the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(FAC). On the basis of results of this study, the present project was
appraised in March 1974.
ii.       Nouadhibou is conveniently located near the main fishing grounds
off the coast of northwest Africa (Morocco to Senegal) where approximately
1.5 million tons of fish are caught annually; however, only about 5% of this
catch is currently landed at Nouadhibou for processing. Although the yield
of Mauritanian waters cannot be precisely assessed, landings at Nouadhibou
can be substantially increased without over-fishing, and without unfair
competition to other ports. The fish-processing industry developed in
Nouadhibou during the early sixties, but its facilities have been under-
utilized for several years because of an inadequate fish supply. The
Government has taken several measures to improve this situation: seaward
boundaries have been extended from 12 miles to about 30 miles, territorial
waters have been policed, and agreements signed with foreign companies to
land part of their catches at Nouadhibou. The result of these initiatives
was that in 1973 about 80,000 tons of fish were landed as against 52,000 t
in 1970.
iii.      However, the above measures are only part of a wider Government
strategy in the fishery sector which also includes expanding facilities at
Nouadhibou, and making the port generally more attractive to fishermen. For
example, if the length of the existing Fishing Berth were doubled, landings
of about 230,000 t of fresh fish could be expected by the mid-eighties when
full utilization of port facilities would be achieved. However, in order
to derive the maximum benefit from this proposed extension, efforts would
have to be made to improve port administration and fishing port operations.
The latter are complex because they involve several private or mixed firms,
and var-ious types of services (unloading of different catches, ice crushing
and distribution, bunkering, etc.). These operations are not satisfactorily
conducted at present, however, and this jeopardizes Nouadhibou's competitive
position as a fishing port in relation to Las Palmas (Canary Islands) and
Dakar (Senegal).
iv.       Commercial traffic at Nouadhibou port is expected to increase with
the development of exports of processed fish and imports of ,ry cargo.
Traffic projections take into account the effects of execution of a number



- ii -
of planned industrial projects which will use the port: for example, plants
for explosives, packing/canning, and an oil refinery. Extension of the exist-
ing Commercial Berths is included in the proposed project, and this work would
cons.ltute the first phase of the master plan for port development to accom-
modate the needs of industrial growth in the area.
v.        The port is administered by the Port Autonome de Nouadhibou (PAN),
an authority established only in July/August 1973, and whose staff needs to
be trained, statutes to be improved, procedures set up, and accounting and
finance systems reorganized.
vi.       The project includes:  I. civil works for extension of the fishing
berth by 300 m, and of the commercial berths by 48 m; associated dredging
works and reconstruction of the approachway from the shore to the commercial
berths; construction of a sewerage scheme; construction of various port
administrative buildings, a sailors' residential club, and housing for port
officers; II. procurement of a harbormasters' launch and equipment for
maintenance of navigation aids; III. technical assistance to train PAN per-
sonnel in administration, operations, accounting and finances; IV. consulting
services for additional studies on a repair facility for fishing and other
vessels, for which a pre-feasibility study was completed in 1973, and which
may be required in the future.
vii.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$27.55 million
equivalent (of which US$5.54 million in taxes and duties), with a foreign
exchange cost of about US$18.09 milliom (65%). The proposed Credit will
finance US$8.0 million of the project cost; firm commitments have been
obtained from two co-financers, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Develop-
ment (KFAED) which will provide US$8.3 million, and the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) US$5.7 million; the Government will provide
local costs of US$5.54 million equivalent in taxes and duties. To reduce
the uncertainties of estimating the costs of civil works, tenders have
already been invited and received for the bulk of the civil works, and the
project costs have been developed from these tenders.
viii.     The civil works are planned to commence at end-1975 and to be
completed in about 21 months, i.e. during 1977. Tenders were invited on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Local firms were given the opportunity to tender for the build-
ing works, and in association with foreign contractors for the major civil
works. Consultants and technical assistance experts will be selected on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; terms of reference have
already been agreed in principle with the Government. In addition, the
consultants for supervision of the civil works will be appointed so that
Bank Group procedures are respected and the co-financers satisfied; agree-
ments have been reached that the Association will have the principal role in
project supervision. The Governmnent is presently inviting proposals from
suitable qualified consultants for this task.



- iii -
ix.       As agreed with the Association, the Government has passed a decree
amending tie existing legislation establishing PAN.  The Government and PAN
also agreed to implement a plan of action covering improvements in staffing,
organization and operations, and finance, within specified time limits, and
in consultation with the Association.
x.        The proposed project as a whole will yield an economic return of
about 26% The major benefits for the country will be provided by the Fishing
Berth extension through additional taxes received from foreign-owned fish-
processing plants, exports of fish products, sales of diesel-oil to foreign
fishing vessels, non-repatriated profits, and increased employment opportu-
nities for the local population both on foreign vessels and in the fishing
plants. In addition, extension of the Commercial Berths and reconstruction
of the approachway will result in lower costs for stevedoring and shore-
handling. Further, the expected reduction in the proportion of traffic
diverted to lighterage will allow faster ship turnaround time, and reduced
losses and damage to cargo.
xi.       As there is some uncertainty regarding development of the planned
new industrial area at Nouadhibou and the Government's policy regarding rates
of taxation on the fish-processing plants, exports of fish products, and re-
patriation of profits of foreign concerns, a risk analysis was carried out for
the whole project, and for its major components. Sensitivity analysis confirms
that even under unfavorable conditions where all expected benefit streams are
reduced by 30% from the best estimate, the project would still yield a satis-
factory return of 19%.
xii.      Although past experience showed that foreign fishing fleets were
reluctant to land their catches at Nouadhibou, the recent increase in world
oil prices and the coincident realignment of Nouadhibou oil prices to match
those applicable in competitive ports has made it unprofitable for vessels
to divert from fishing grounds near Nouadhibou to Dakar and Las Palmas, and
the competitive position of Nouadhibou has therefore improved; moreover, by
1977/78, the price of bunker oil will be lower at Nouadhibou than at competing
ports when a new oil refinery goes into operation. Further, fish schools
show a tendency to develop nearer Nouadhibou than the Canary Islands. These
circumstances, combined with the Government's policy to develop the fishing
sector in Nouadhibou, favor the proposed project. The risk of uncontrolled
overfishing is now less because of better protection achieved with foreign
assistance.
xiii.     Until the recent establishment of PAN, there was no separate port
budget, and no significant conclusions can be drawn from past financial data.
however, port tariffs which were adjusted in August 1973, are inadequate to
cover costs, particularly after completion of the present project.  The
proposed reorganization of the accounting system on commercial lines will
enable a cost-based revision of the tariffs. The extent to which tariffs can
be increased has to be carefully assessed having regard to all relevant
factors, mainly the port's competitive position vis-a-vis nearby attractive
ports. Pending this assessment, wlich will be conducted by technical assis-
tance experts under the proposed project, the financial forecasts assume that



- iv -
the entire project cost will be financed from a capital contribution from the
Government, and that additional port revenue of at least UM 10 million (US$0.24
million) will be generated for the half-year ending December 31, 1977, by some
rational tariff revision.
xiv.      The Government has provided assurances that PAN will achieve a
minimum rate of return on fixed a3sets of 6% up to 1977 and 2-1/2% thereafter,
and that PAN will be able to pay to the Government on its total equity an annual
dividend of 3% from 1977 on. This arrangement will be fair, as the Government
will be earning substantial revenue from taxes, etc. The Government has also
agreed to consult with the Association prior to investing more than UN 10 mil-
lion in any one year for facilities for the port other than those included in
the project.
xv.       The proposed project wiLl enable the Government to pursue its long-
range development strategy of usinig additional revenues from fishing, the
country's second largest natural resources, to build a base for growth of
related industrial activities, and for the development of a domestic fishing
fleet. The project is therefore suitable for a Credit of US$8.0 million
equivalent to the Government of Mauritania on standard IDA terms.



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADUIBOU PORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mauritania has asked the Association to help
finance the improvement of port facilities at Nouadhibou, the country's only
deep-water port for commercial and fishing activities.  Traffic at Nouadhibou
is expected to grow rapidly in future with local industrial development, and
particularly with increased fish landings. Inadequate port facilities threaten
to jeopardize the projected development of local fish processing plants, and
to increase ship turnaround time.  Consequently, the Government in 1972 ap-
pointed consultants Bureau Central des Equipements d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM, France)
to prepare a project following terms of reference drafted by the Association.
On the basis of the consultants' recommendations and the Government's request,
the project includes: I. civil works for extension of the fishing berths by
300 m, and of the commercial berths by 48 m; associated dredging works and
reconstruction of the approachway from the shore to the commercial berths;
construction of a sewerage scheme; construction of various port administrative
buildings, a sailors' residential club, and housing for port officers;
II. procurement of a harbormasters' launch and equipment for maintenance of
navigation aids; III. technical assistance to train PAN personnel in adminis-
tration, operations, accounting, and finances; IV. consulting services for
additional studies on a repair facility for fishing and other vessels.
1.02      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$27.55 million
equivalent (of which US$5.54 million in taxes and duties), with a foreign
exchange cost of about US$18.09 million. The proposed Credit will finance
US$8.0 million equivalent of the project cost; firm commitments have been
received from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) to provide
US$8.3 million, and from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
for US$5.7 million; the Government will provide local costs of US$5.54 million
equivalent.
1.03      The Bank Group's previous involvement in the ports sector was through
Loan 249-FR made in 1960 for an iron ore project; the Loan included US$21
million for construction of an ore berth and associated dredging at the port
of Point Central near Nouadhibou. In the highways sector, a Credit (69-MAU)
of US$6.7 million was made in 1964 for construction of the Nouakchott-Rosso
road (200 km) and for a study of the maintenance organization. A second
Credit (159-MAU) was granted in 1969 for implementing the consultants'
recommendations under the abovementioned maintenance study, and for the
purchase of equipment and provision of technical assistance to execute a
highway maintenance and betterment program. A third Credit to continue and
extend efforts under the previous maintenance operation was approved in
October 1974 (Credit 519-MAU, US$3.0 million).



- 2 -
1.04      This report is based on the BCEOM feasibility study (para. 1.01),
on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. J. Grosdidier
de Matons (Senior Port Specialist). J. Pelletey (Economist), D. Screwvala
(Financial Analyst), and F. Bourgois (Consultant, Fisheries Specialist, FAO)
which visited Mauritania in March 1974, and on the restilts of international
tenders for the civil works included in the project received on June 16, 1975.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination
2.01      Details of the transport sector, and of the facilities and services
provided by the various modes, are given in Annex 1.
2.02      The Government's aim in the transport sector is first, to continue
reducing the country's dependence on Senegal for its external trade; second,
to link the east and the west regions as part of a strategy to achieve
national unity, and to help reduce the wide discrepancies in living standards
between different areas; and thir,l, to establish a reliable transport system
necessary to develop the more popualated southern and eastern regions.
2.03      The above objectives are sound, although in selecting individual
projects, more emphasis could have been given to economic priorities.  At
present, priority is given to construction of a two-lane paved highway from
Nouakchott to Nema (1,000 km), vial Boutilimit and Aleg; construction of an
international airport and a deep-water port at Nouakchott; and construction
of the Rosso-Boghe-Kaedi road along the Senegal River. At the present time,
only the last-named project appears clearly economically justified, and it
constitutes an important part of the ongoing Third Highway Project, which
also includes provision for the services of a transport planner/economist to
help the Transport Department of the Ministry of Equipment identify invest-
ment priorities in the sector.
2.04      The Bank Group's object:ive in the sector is to help the Government
build up a transport system and a maintenance capacity which are best suited
to the country's needs. Such an undertaking is a prerequisite to the develop-
ment of the south and southeast regions which include about 85% of the total
population.
2.05      Issues of transport coordination, both in the sense of competition
between modes and the extent to which they complement each other, exist only
in the Rosso-Boghe-Kaedi corridor (about 300 km) where both road and water
transport have seasonal advantages over each other. Road transport is prac-
tically the only mode during the dry season (December to June/July), with
only very little competition from small boats of up to 1 m draught. The
road is partly flooded the rest oi the year, and at that time, transport in
the corridor is accomplished by boats of up to 2.5 m draught. In the past,
this arrangement had generally served transport needs along the corridor;
hlowever, planned large-scale agric:ultural developments would call for improved



-3-
facilities in the near future. The exact transport improvements to be made,
especially on the Rosso-Boghe stretch, have not yet been determined, since
implementing the agricultural projects would involve harnessing the Senegal
River, and that undertaking could have quite serious effects on existing
transport arteries.
B.   Fisheries
Resources and Fishing Grounds
2.06      Fish are abundant along the northwest coast of Africa, particularly
off the coast of Mauritania, because of favorable oceanographic conditions
(see Map 11098R). Resources include species of both pelagic (mid-depth and
surface-swimming) and demersal (bottom-living) fish. The total annual catch
is estimated at about 1.0 million t of pelagic fish, and 0.5 million t of
demersal fish and mollusks; about 0.7 million t are landed in the Canary
Islands, Mauritania, and Senegal, for local consumption or for processing.
There are indications that the present level of exploitation is nearing the
maximum sustainable yield. Details of fisheries and the fishing industry
are given in Annex 2.
Government Strategy for Fisheries Development
2.07      Mauritania has few fishermen, and the domestic market for fish is
very small, except along the Senegal River. Because of this, the opportunity
for the development of fisheries lies mainly in processing and preparing for
export the fish catches from adjoining waters. It is the Government's policy
to:
(i)  protect Mauritania's fish reserves on the continental
shelf;
(ii)  develop a national fishing fleet;
(iii)  encourage foreign fishing vessels to land their catches
in Nouadhibou in order to provide raw material for the
existing local processing industry; licenses are issued
to these vessels to fish in territorial waters as a
condition of such landings; and
(iv) improve facilities and services at Nouadhibou to attract
fishermen to the port.
Present Situation and Short-Term Development
2.08      Mauritania's official territorial waters extend for 30 nautical
miles (55 km), and cover practically the entire area over the adjacent con-
tinental shelf. Vessels fishing in this area are required to have licenses
issued by the Government, and at present, fleets from about 12 foreign
countries (a total of about 300 vessels) are authorized to operate within
Mauritania's sea boundaries. Among these, Spanish, Japanese, and Russian



- 4 -
trawlers presently land demersal fish at Nouadhibou for the freezing and
salting industries, while Dutch anid Norwegian vessels bring pelagic fish for
meal and oil production. Mauritania relies on these foreign fleets to
supply the processing plants at Nouadhibou. Licensing arrangements as of
mid-1973 were expected to yield minimim annual landings at the port of
80,000 t of pelagic fish and 76,000 t of demersal fish. However, insuffi-
cient berthing facilities for trawlers and low operating efficiency of the
port have prevented the achievement of these tonnages, and these limitations
will persist until the works and technical assistance for the reorganization
of port operations provided under the proposed project have been completed.
2.09      The processing industry at Nouadhibou has an effective capacity
under present working conditions of about 140,000 t, but in 1973 it received
a total of only about 80,000 t of fish (68,000 t from the foreign fleets
abovementioned, and the remainder from traditional fleets); exports of fish
products totalled about 34,000 t (including 17,000 t of frozen fish and
12,000 t of fishmeal and oil) to a total value of UM 700 million (US$16
million). To produce this volume, freezing plants worked at about 60% of
their capacity and fishmeal plants at nearly full capacity during peak periods
of the three-month pelagic fishing season. The present trend is to develop
these two processing activities, while allowing the less profitable salting
and drying to decline. At the present time, the fishing sector represents
about 5% of GDP. With the expected 13% p.a. growth of the sector after
completion of the proposed project, its proportion of GDP would increase to
about 9% in the early 1980's, if services are improved to attract fishermen.
2.10      An attempt was made in 1965 to develop a national fishing fleet,
but this was not successful due to lack of competent management, as well
as to inadequate equipment and faulty financial arrangements; however, a new
start to this effort has recently been made. While the exact scope and
timing of development of the national fishing fleet are not known at present,
a Japanese trawler is being used as a training vessel, and trainees are also
aboard 18 other Japanese vessels and 12 Russian ones. Also, agreements have
either been signed or are under negotiation with other countries (such as
Ghana, Kuwait, and Algeria) to obtain fishing vessels as well as technical
assistance and training facilities.
2.11      According to existing agreements, the Russian fleet based at
Nouadhibou should consist of 35 trawlers; however, because existing facilities
for landing, supply, and processing are now fully utilized, the arrival of 23
of these trawlers had to be deferred. On completion of the proposed project,
these vessels would be able to call, and to land annually an additional
11,000 t of fish. Further developcment of fishing activities will also result
from the following: (i) the provision, of a new ice plant with a capacity
of 100 t/day (almost double the present capacity); (ii) increase of fish-
freezing capacity by 100 t/day (present capacity 120 t/day); and (iii) increase
of fishmeal production by 60 t/day (present capacity 130 t/day), involving the
processing of about 25,000 t of raw fish during the peak working period from
September to December. Coincident with worldwide increases in oil prices, the
Government has been able to reduce the relative price of diesel fuel at



-5-
Nouadhibou vis-a-vis the competitive ports of Las Palmas and Dakar, partly
through arrangements to obtain oil directly from Algeria instead of through
Senegal, and partly through a rebate of diesel oil taxes to fishing vessels.
The net effect of these changes is to render unprofitable the diversion of
foreign fishing vessels from the Mauritania fishing grounds to the more distant
ports for unloading, victualling, and bunkering.
Long-Term Development Possibilities
2.12      Trawlers landing fish for processing at Nouadhibou operate within
240 km of the port; they have to keep fish catches in ice, and this limits
their range at sea to ten days. Other freezer trawlers call at Nouadhibou
only to transship their catches to carrier vessels at anchor. It would be
of greater benefit to Mauritania's economy if transshipment were made to cold
storage plants on shore, and if large shipments of frozen fish were then re-
exported. The long-range opportunity for expansion of fishing port activities
at Nouadhibou therefore lies primarily in developing these transshipment
operations whose volume, negligible until 1969, has increased steadily to
about 24,000 t in 1973. Further development can be expected, spurred by
recent increases in bunker oil prices, the realignment of oil costs at
Nouadhibou vis-a-vis competitive ports, and the likelihood of still cheaper
oil in Nouadhibou after the new oil refinery goes into operation there in
1977/78. However, Nouadhibou still lacks many of the facilities and amneni-
ties offered by other ports: cheap fresh water, fast handling services, tax-
free stores, repair facilities, shore facilities for crews; and also flexibil-
ity in police, customs, and administrative procedures, as well as a helpful
attitude towards visitors. As part of the technical assistance services to
be provided under the present project, efforts will be made to provide and
improve these facilities and services as increased fish landings take place
(para. 2.08).
3. PORT INSTALLATIONS, ORGANIZATION, AND OPERATIONS
A.   Facilities and Equipment
3.01      The port of Nouadhibou is located on the western shore of the
Levrier Bay on Mauritania's north coast. The harbor is free from siltation,
and is fairly well protected from the prevailing trade winds blowing from
the north. Access is from the south through a buoyed natural channel 7.9 m
deep. Maximum tidal range is 1.80 m. Pilotage is optional, and when required,
is performed by MIFERMA pilots.
3.02      General cargo and bulk petroleum products are handled at the
Commercial Berth, an island berth linked to the shore by an approachway on
piles. An ocean-going vessel can be accommodated on the outside berth, and
a coaster on the inside berth. Since its frontage is only 80 m, a limited
number of holds on large vessels can be worked, and dry cargo capacity is
estimated at 130,000 t. Small fishing boats landing catches mainly for



-6-
salting/drying use ramps projecting from the approachway. However, most
fislh is landed at the 290 m Fishiig Berth which is currently saturated during
part of thie year due to inadequate productivity. Fish carriers loed processed
fish at both the Commercial and Fishing Berths. Heavy lifts are unloaded by
lighters onto a 150 m Lighterage Wharf. The protected harbor is used for
direct transshipment of fish from trawlers to carriers anchored in the bay.
Bunkers and fresh water are available at most berths; a 250-ton slipway is
used for repairs to fishing vessels. Details of existing port facilities and
equipment are in Annex 3 and Map I11099R.
3.03      All equipment is owned by port users.  Bulk oil is handled through
pipelines. General cargo is handled by mobile equipment which is adequate;
transit and storage sheds and stacking yards are sufficient, although located
far from the Commercial Berths. Fish for fishmeal is unloaded by fixed pumps;
fish for human consumption is unloaded by the fishing vessels' own gear. Ice
is distributed by both fixed and mobile ice-crushers. On the whole, the
equipment for servicing the fishing vessels is inadequate, and in any case,
is poorly positioned with respect to needs (para. 3.09 and Annex 4 on fishing
port operations).
B.   Administration
Legislation
3.04      The port of Nouadhibou was a local department of the Ministry of
Equipment until July/August 1973, when the Port Autonome de Nouadhibou (PAN)
was established by Presidential Decree as an autonomous public body with
authority for planning, constructing, and operating all port facilities.
There are at present indications that the Government may establish a National
Port Authority to supervise all ports.
3.05      PAN is administered by a Director and a Board comprised of seven
representatives of the Government, five of port users, and one of the labor
union; the Chairman of the Board is the Secretary-General of the Ministry
of Equipment. The Board decides on PAN's general policy, and on certain
specific matters, mainly the annual budget. The Director is PAN's legal
representative and its chief executive.
3.06      The port legislation needed elaboration on many points, mainly to
strengthen the position of the Chairman and of the Board in relation to the
Director (who enjoys considerable independence) by organizing planning and
reporting systems, and to establish a sound financial organization. As agreed
with the Association, the Government has suitably amended the port legislation
in February 1975. Details of the previous legislation and amendments proposed
are given in Annex 5. Standard clauses of the Credit Agreement will apply to
ensure that future changes in the amended legislation will not adversely affect
the working of the port.



7-
Management and Staffing
3.07      Management of the port is weak because of the inadequate staffing
situation and the lack of trained personnel for port and maritime adminis-
tration.  The Director of PAN is also the Director of Nouakchott Wharf
(Etablissement Maritime de Nouakchott, EMN), and therefore works only part-
time at Nouadhibou port. His full-time assistants and other staff need
experience and training. There are no regulations for operations or for
policing; also, collection and utilization of statistics need to be improved,
and control of port users to be organized. Maintenance of facilities is poor.
C.   Operations
3.08      Operations are complex because of the diversity of port traffic.
Fishing vessel and fish-carrier operations are conducted by local firms,
mainly fish-processing plants, which pay modest fees to PAN, but no rent on
their fixed installations within the port limits. The Societe d'Acconage
et de Manutention (SAMMA) is a mixed company (23% owned by PAN) licensed to
handle, store, and deliver general cargo, for which it pays PAN a high annual
fee. PAN wishes to operate general cargo with its own forces, in much the
same way as EMN operates Nouakchott Wharf; if this is done, SAMMA would be
eliminated. The proposal is part of a scheme to widen PAN's scope of activ-
ities, equipment, and investments. In view primarily of the shortage of
staff, as well as of SAMMA's satisfactory productivity (para. 3.09), changes
at this time are neither urgent nor advisable.
3.09      Gang-hour productivity on general cargo is good, but labor is
sensitive to changes in handling methods and work schedules, and the labor
union is fairly influential. SAMMA works overtime up to 12-14 hours/day
when necessary. Its overall productivity is satisfactory considering the
small size of most shipments, the limited number of operable holds on each
ship, the narrowness of the access, and the distance between berths and the
storage area. Details of productivity rates at the Commercial Berths are
given in Table 1. In contrast, productivity on the fishing vessels while in
port is far below normal because of port equipment inadequacies and faulty
port operational organization which slows down fish landings and the supply-
ing of trawlers. This low productivity results in a low turnover of about
one ship/day per berth. Details on Fishing Berth operations and productivity
are given in Annex 4.
3.10      There has been considerable concern among port users because of
the harsh enforcement of customs procedures by officers who apparentlyenjoy
wide powers in their interpretation and application of the law. Regulations
appear to be strict and unsuited to the needs of commercial and industrial
operations. Some improvements in this respect will be effected under the
proposed project (para. 3.15).



D).  Budget, Accounts, Audit, and Insurance
3.11      The previous legislative provisions governing the financial powers
of PAN's Board have been suitably strengthened. Initial budgeting has not
been done properly in relation to the port's requirements. The prescribed
accounting plan on which the approved budgets for the second half of 1973
and for 1974 are based, is not fully along commercial lines, and will there-
fore not enable the desired functional budgeting and budgetary control.
Accounting heads are not classified according to the port's principal
activities; as a consequence, accounts do not truly relfect financial results,
and costs of the main services cannot be determined; actual bookkeeping is not
comprehensive. Draft balance sheets as of July 1 and December 31, 1973 were
based on assets at original costs; however, revised balance sheets, including
as of December 31, 1974, have been prepared mainly on the basis of assets as
revalued by BCEOM. These accounts have yet to be audited and approved by
PAN's Board, and need modification for financial analysis purposes. The
port accountant and his staff need training.
3.12      External audit has been entrusted to the Financial Controller of
the Presidency of the Republic, who audits all public corporations. His
professional competence and the scope of his authority are considered
adequate, and his reporting requirements have been extended by the amended
port legislation. Internal audit is almost non-existent.
3.13      Insurance of port properties has been arranged with a private
company; however, revaluation of t:he original assets (including imported
goods to be financed under the project) would now have to be taken into
account for insurance purposes. f'AN is expected to provide insurance for
such risks and in appropriate amounts as consistent with good commercial
practice.
E.   Tariffs and Costs
3.14      When PAN started operations in August 1973, specific tariffs were
set for cargo and services; these tariffs, and the daily charges on vessels,
are detailed in Annex 7. Cargo rates are generally competitive vis-a-vis
those at Dakar and Las Palmas. As of January 1, 1974, daily dues on ships,
formerly levied by the provincial governorship, now accrue to PAN. However,
no such daily dues are levied on vessels landing fish at Nouadhibou, which
are subject to a specific annual levy by the province. Pilotage charges
are paid directly to MIFERMA. SAMMA's annual rent fee for the right to
handle, store, and deliver general cargo was increased in April 1974 from
about UM 3 million to UM 18 millioa (about US$430,000); in consideration of
this, SAMMA was allowed to increase its tariffs, and most of this increase
was applied to general cargo. There is also scope for increasing cargo and
vessel charges bearable by the fishing industry without inhibiting traffic,
and PAN should in future charge rent on the industry's installations on port
lands.



-9-
F.   Proposed Improvements
3.15      The proposed project provides for the services of technical assis-
tance experts to help establish and implement a coordinated plan of action
in all the areas referred to above, with special emphasis on training PAN
staff before extending the agency's scope of activities, and on improving
operations of the Fishing Berths. The improvements include:
(i) appointment of a competent full-time Port Director
after appropriate training;
(ii) improvements in the port administration and organization
covering also accounting/finance and establishment of
cost-based tariffs, and including training programs,
preparation of staff manuals, etc; and
(iii) analysis of operations, followed by provision by port
users of adequate port equipment suitably located,
issuance of port regulations, and licensing of users
to facilitate control.
Annex 6 gives details of the agreed plan of action with specified time-limits,
as well as agreed terms of reference for the technical assistance experts.
In addition to the above improvements, the Government will carry out a review
of its customs procedures and their enforcement (see Annex 6, para. 10); also,
a manpower plan for development of the port and maritime sector is to be imple-
mented in conjunction with technical assistance under the IDA education project
(Credit 459-MAU, US$3.8 million, January 1974) (Annex 6, para. 8).
3. 16     The Government will need to consult with the Association on its
intended establishment of a National Port Authority, and on any proposed
new legislation for that body. The plan of action includes reorganization
of accounting along proper commercial lines, simultaneously with training of
the port accountant and his staff, and strengthening of internal audit with
the assistance of qualified technical assistance experts whose services are
to be provided under the proposed project. For external audit, the modifica-
tions to PAN's legislation provide for extending the reporting requirements
of the Financial Controller to include preparation of a comprehensive report
on annual accounts and management. The plan of action also includes revision
of tariffs on the basis of costs of service provided and ability of the traffic
to bear charges, in order to capture the economic benefits of the project and
to generate revenue sufficient to meet PAN's financial obligations.
3.17      Accordingly, agreements have been reached with the Government as
follows:
(i) that, in conjunction with PAN, it will implement the
agreed plan of action in a manner satisfactory to the
Association; and
(ii) that it will refrain from expanding PAN's activities
until PAN is adequately staffed, and that it will consult



- 10 -
with the Association before any such expansion is
undertaken during implementation of the plan of
action.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project is part of a master plan prepared by consul-
tants BCEOM for development of the port of Nouadhibou. On the basis of the
recommendations in the consultants' report and subsequent discussions with
the Government and the co-financers, the following items are included in
the project:
I.   Civil Engineering Works
A.   Construction of additional length for the fishing berths
(300 m); for the general cargo berth (48 m); replacement
of the approachway to the commercial berths; and associated
dredging works.
B.   Construction of a sewerage scheme and treatment plant
for the industrial fishing plants and other buildings
within the general port area.
C.   Construction of various buildings:  Administrative
buildings for PAN, including an office for the marine
services, the merchant navy and fisheries; a Police
and Health station; a sailors' residential club; three
lodgings for port officers.
D.   Consulting services for supervision of contracts for
the above works.
II.   Equipment 1/
A.   Procurement of a harbormasters' launch.
B.   Procurement of equipment for maintenance of navigational
aids (buoys, lights, lighthouses, etc.).
III.   Technical Assistance
A.   Expert services to assist PAN in port administration,
in accounting and finance, and in the study and reorganiza-
tion of port operations.
1/   Procurement of these items will depend on the results of a study now being
carried out by the Direction des Phares et Balises/Association Internationale
des Aides a Navigation (France) with whom the Government has a technical
assistance agreement. The study is due for completion in October 1975, and
the full scope of the proposed procurement will then be determined.



- 11 -
B.   Training of port personnel in foreign fishing ports.
IV.   Studies for Ship Repair Facilities
Expert services for carrying out studie2 on the need for
and development of ship-repair facilities at Nouadhibou.
Details of the project are given in Annex 8 and shown in Map 11099R.
4.02      The Government has agreed to take measures necessary to finalize
preparation of a port master plan, in consultation with the Association,
within a year from the date of signing of the Credit Agreement for the
proposed project. The Government has also agreed that it will, from time
to time, consult with the Association on its own program and on PAN's program
for investments in facilities for the port; also, that it will consult with
the Association prior to making any investments in facilities for the port
(other than those included in the project) exceeding UM 10 million (US$244,000)
in any one year during implementation of the project (para. 6.17).
Civil Works
4.03      Extension of the Fishing Berths will meet additional requirements
for the immediate future, estimated during the peak season at 11,000 t of
fish for human consumption and 25,000 t for fishmeal. Moreover, increased
productivity is expected following measures to be taken by consultants
reviewing port operations under the proposed project, and this should result
in a further incremental capacity of 25,000 t of food fish and 50,000 t of
fish for fishmeal. On completion of the project, the total length of the
Fishing Berths will be 590 m, with an alongside depth of 6 m; total capacity
will be an estimated 230,000 t (para. 5.05).
4.04      Extension of the Commercial Berth will provide an incremental
capacity of 90,000 t which will be adequate until about 1983, provided that
peak traffic will be partly diverted to the Lighterage Wharf (para. 5.06).
Total berthing length will then be 228 m, with an alongside depth of 8 m on
one side and 7 m on the other. The 210 m approachway linking the Commercial
Berths to shore will be widened from 12 m to 17.5 m. BCEOM has carried out
the feasibility studies and detailed engineering for all the proposed exten-
sions.
4.05      New administrative buildings will be constructed to replace exist-
ing light or temporary buildings that will be demolished to make room for
the proposed extensions. The new buildings planned are: (i) the marine
services office; (ii) administrative buildings for the Port Authority and
for the Merchant Navy/Fisheries; (iii) Police/Health Station; (iv) three
lodgings for port officers; and (v) a sailors' residential club.
4.06      A sewerage scheme will be constructed to serve the industrial fish
processing plants and the administrative and other buildings in the port.
The works include the lift stations, a treatment plant, and a sea outfall
for the treated effluent.



- 12 -
Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
4.07      Technical assistance to be provided under the project will help
PAN establish sound organizational and financial procedures, and reorganize
operations so as to increase productivity. Details of the agreed terms of
reference, which emphasize a low-cost approach for port administration and
staffing, are given in the Attachment to Annex 6.
4.08      BCEOM has conducted a pre-feasibility study of a ship-repair
facility with a 750 t synchro-lift; if constructed, it might attract to
Nouadhibou fishing vessels repaired in Dakar and Las Palmas where repair
facilities are currently congested. Before going ahead with this project,
however, the Government would need to obtain the participation of an
experienced ship-repair firm to finalize project preparation and to parti-
cipate in its execution; the proposed project makes provision for the funds
necessary to finance the required additional studies, which will take into
account ongoing or planned ship-repair developments at Dakar and Las Palmas.
B.   Costs
4.09      The total estimated cost of the project is US$27.55 million equiv-
alent (including taxes), with foreign exchange costs of US$18.09 million
(about 65%). Details of cost estimates are given in Table 2 and summarized
below:
(UM Million)          (US$ Million Equivalent) /1
Local  Foreign  Total      Local   Foreign   Total
I. Civil Works incl.
Supervision         304.95   554.23  859.18       7.43     13.52   20.95
II. Equipment             4.51    17.82   22.33       0.11      0.44    0.55
III. Technical Assistance 2.87    25.83   28.70        0.07      0.63    0.70
IV. Studies               1.83    10.34   12.17       0.05      0.25    0.30
Sub-total         314.16   608.22  922.38       7.66     14.84   22.50
V. Contingencies
- Physical (5%)      15.24    27.71   42.95       0.37      0.68    1.05
- Prices (18.2%) /2 58.27   105.91  164.18        1.42      2.58    4.00
Sub-total          73.51   133.62  207.13       1.79      3.26    5.05
TOTAL PROJECT COST       387.68   741.85 1,129.53    9.46        18.09   27.55
Note:  Figures may not add due to rounding.
/1   Exchange Rate:  US$1 = UM 41.00.
/2   Since tenders have been obtained for the bulk of the civil works under
the project (para. 4.10), price contingencies need to be included only
during the construction period, as it is envisaged that contracts will
be awarded at end-November, 1975. Accordingly, the price contingency
element allows for increases in the cost of civil works as follows:
1976, 14%; 1977, 12%.



- 13 -
4.10      The above costs are based on tenders for the bulk of the civil
works received on June 16, 1975 (Table 3); other costs have been estimated
by the Association. Tender documents for the marine civil engineering works
were drawn up so that tenderers would submit prices for the works as shown
on the drawings, and would also submit alternative designs and prices for
the approachway to the commercial berths. The lowest tenderer submitted an
alternative design which was slightly lower than the consultants', but the
Government felt that the disadvantages of the alternative design were such
that they did not offset the slight reduction in cost; the Association
agrees with this reasoning. The cost of the project allocable to PAN as
the Government's additional equity will be exclusive of half the cost of the
administrative buildings and the total cost of the navigation aids equipment,
sailors' residential club, and ship-repair studies (para. 6.03).
C. Execution
4.11     The Government (Ministry of Construction) will be responsible for carrying
out the project, with the assistance of consultants. An estimated schedule for
implementation of the project is shown in Annex 9. Construction is scheduled to
start by end-1975 and be completed by end-1977. Experts to provide technical assis-
tance for port administration, operations, and finance will be appointed through
contract with specialized firms. All consultants/technical assistance experts will
be selected on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. This arrange-
ment, as well as terms of reference for all the proposed services (about 90 man-
months), has been discussed and agreed with the Government. The question of project
supervision has also been discussed and agreed with the Government, PAN, and the
co-financers, to ensure that Bank Group procedures will be respected, and that the
Association will have the principal role in this supervision.
4.12      Construction of the civil works will be executed by contract follow-
ing international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Each bidder was invited to prepare a combined offer for the marine works, sew-
erage scheme, and the various buildings included in the project, and another
offer for each of these components separately; the latter arrangement was to
encourage local contractors who can undertake building construction to bid on
this part of the project. Bid preferences for local contractors have been
or will be granted in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The Government
has decided that all materials and equipment incorporated in the project will
be subject to the normal customs duties and levies regardless of their country
of origin.
D.   Ecological Considerations
4.13      Fish stocks are renewable, and in the case of pelagic species
(sardinella), highly mobile. Octopus and mollusks, whose life is limited
to one year, can be caught in larger quantities than at present without
depleting the stock. Depletion of other species is likely to result more
from the uncontrolled operations of fishing fleets than from the increase
of catches landed at Nouadhibou, which will remain a modest proportion of
the total yield. Moreover, the development of fishing activities at
Nouadhibou will lead to a better conservation of stocks, since the activity



-- 14 -
of factory ships in the area adjacent to Mauritania will be reduced; there
will consequently be less spoilage of catches which presently occurs when
these ships discharge at sea large volumes of species unattractive to them.
The only impact that the proposed project civil works will have on the
environment is the creation of an area of calm water behind the new approach-
way, and improvement in the effluent discharged into the bay as the new
sewage treatment plant goes into operation; the latter point is important,
as the water quality presently leaves room for concern.
E.   Financing and Disbursements
4.14      The co-financing agencies aave given a firm indication of the
maximum contributions which they are prepared to make towards the cost of the
project, as indicated below:
Cost          ------Financing Arrangements-------------
Item             (US$ Million             Joint Financing       Parallel Financing
Equivalent)        KFAED  CCCE   IDA  Govt.   KFAED   CCCE
I. A. Civil Works
(incl. contingency)   18.99             2.70  5.09  7.06  4.14        -       -
B. Sewerage Scheme
(incl. contingency)    2.48              -      -     -    0.54      1.94    -
C. Buildings                3.49             -     -      -    0.76      2.73    -
(incl. contingency)
D. Supervision   A          0.79            0.28  0.22  0.29   -          -      -
B + C       0.25             -     -      -     -        0.25    -
II. Equipment
A. Launch                   0.05                               0.01       -    0.04
B. Navigational aids        0.50                               0.10     0.40   -
III. Consulting Services         0.70             -    0.35  0.35   -
IV. Ship-repair Studies         0.30             -     -    0.30   -
Total                27.55            2.98  5.66  8.00  5.55       5      032   0.04
5 70



- 15 -
The financing plan is therefore as follows:
KFAED     :US$ 8.3 million
CCCE      :      5.7
.LDA      :      8.0
Government:      5.5
Total   : US$27.5 million equivalent
4.15      The contribution shown as being financed by the Government
represents the value of the taxes and duties included in the project costs.
The civil works contractors will pay the normal duties and taxes applicable
during the contruction period.
4.16      Signature of the KFAED and CCCE Loan Agreements will be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit. Disbursements from the IDA Credit
Account are scheduled as follows:
(i)  US$7.35 million towards the cost of the civil works,
including supervision by consultants; and
(ii)  the balance of US$0.65 million towards the cost of
technical assistance and consulting services for the
ship-repair studies.
4.17      Table 4 shows the estimated schedule of expenditure over the
project implementation period. Table 5 shows the estimated schedule of
disbursements from the proposed Credit. Any funds remaining in the Credit
Account on completion of the project will be cancelled.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Present Traffic Trends
5.01      Nouadhibou is basically a fishing port where landings of the fish
catch and commercial traffic generated by the fishing industry comprise 70%
of total cargo tonnage (Table 6). Port facilities are becoming increasingly
inadequate to handle this traffic. The major bottleneck is the shortage of
berthing space at the Fishing Port (Berth and Ramps), which accommodates
about three-quarters of all ships berthing at Nouadhibou (Table 6). There
is at present no congestion at the Commercial Berths which, in addition to
commercial traffic, also accommodate about 15% of the traffic in fishing
vessels to relieve congestion at the Fishing Berth. The lack of facilities
at Nouadhibou causes fishing vessels to divert from that port; for example,
only about 30% of the contracted number of Russian trawlers can be accom-
modated, and the remainder have to deliver their catches to factory ships
at sea.



- 16 -
5.02      In 1973, total traffic at Nouadhibou was about 210,000 t, of which
80,000 t were fish landings, 21,000 t petroleum products for bunkering fishing
vessels, and 108,000 t dry cargo traffic, the latter increasing at about 10%
p.a. Dry cargo traffic is generated mainly by MIFERMA (47%) and the fishing
industry (40%), with shipments comprising principally imports of spare parts
and exports of frozen fish. The average size of these shipments is small
(580 t in 1973), but their specif:Lc value is high (US$765 per ton, twice the
average for ports on the West African coast). Cargo ships are generally
small, with small coasters numerous. Passenger traffic is negligible.
B.   Traffic Forecasts
5.03      Future trends in commerc:ial traffic are expected to follow a
completely different pattern from that observed in the past. This is due to:
(i) new industrial development in Nouadhibou (for example, plants for explo-
sives, packing/canning, a small electric steel plant, and an oil refinery);
(ii) additional traffic expected in 1976/77 and 1981/82 following extension
of MIFERMA mining operations, and the renewal of MIFERMA's railway track;
(iii) elimination of oil imports at the commercial port due to development
of locally refined products; and (iv) additional exports of fish products
generated by the proposed extension of the Fishing Berth. Total dry cargo
traffic is forecast to reach about 285,000 t in 1983, of which about 125,000 t
in exports of fish products. Annex 10 gives the assumptions underlying the
traffic projections, which are detailed in Table 7.
5.04      Since present traffic trends indicate that the extended Commercial
Berths will be fully utilized by 1983, the possibility of accommodating addi-
tional traffic pertaining to a proposed steel plant complex has been excluded.
The present appraisal does not take account of this recent.project, for which
the capacity, construction schedule, and siting (Nouakchott vs. Nouadhibou)
are still to be determined. If the project does materialize at Nouadhibou,
the increase of traffic at the berths will justify undertaking a second phase
of port extension.
5.05      The size of future fish landings will depend to a substantial degree
on Government policy regarding fishing agreements. Long-standing agreements
with foreign fleets (Spain, Japan, Netherlands, Norway), and more recent agree-
ments with Kuwait, Ghana, Russia, Algeria should provide by 1980 landed volumes
which come close to the proposed port capacity at that time. In addition,
plans exist for further fishing agreements with the Ivory Coast, Rumania,
Italy, and Japan. On this basis, :he assumption that full utilization of
port landing capacity will be achieved by 1983 appears reasonably conserva-
tive. By then, total traffic at the Fishing Berths would be about 220,000 t,
of which 65,000 t demersal or trawler fish, and the rest pelagic fish for
production of fishmeal. Also by that time, landings at Nouadhibou could
represent about 15% of catches along the northwestern coast of Africa as
compared with the present 5%. Tab:Le 8 gives details of actual and forecast
traffic of fish landings, and Table 9 shows figures for exports of fish
products.



- 17 -
C.   Assessment of Berth Requirements
5.06      Due to the irregularity of forecast traffic trends at the Commercial
Berth and the variety of ship operations, berthing requirements both for solu-
tion "with" and "without" for the period 1975-86 were analyzed through the
Bank's Port Simulation model. Values of operational parameters used for the
simulation were determined from an analysis of ship calls during 1972-74, and
from additional information on handling rates provided by stevedoring companies
and fish plants. The simulation indicated that with a two-shift system of 16
hours/day, combined with the expected 25% increase in productivity in handling
operations (increase in number of hatches worked following berth extension,
and acceleration of shore operations following widening and rehabilitation
of the approachway), the total capacity of the extended berth could reach
about 220,000 t. Even so, up to 25% of the traffic would still have to be
diverted to the lighterage wharf during peak periods, but the cost of this
diversion would remain within acceptable limits. The proposed project will
permit reduction by about one-third of the average stay of ships in the port,
with the main effect arising from faster loading of frozen fish.
5.07      The estimated capacity of the Fishing Berth assumes a reduction of
about 50% in present service time of trawlers by doubling the very low
unloading rate (3.5 t/hour), speeding up ice supply from 4 t/hour to 12 t/hour,
and utilizing berthing space more effectively (Annex 10).
D.   Economic Return
5.08      For the purpose of the economic evaluation, the economic cost of
the proposed project (with taxes excluded, shadow prices for local labor,
and foreign component) is estimated at UM 836 million (mid-1975). This
amount includes construction costs of UM 446 million for the Fishing Berths,
and of UM 273 million and UM 117 million respectively for the Commercial
Berths and the approachway; including additional costs for buildings, sewerage
system, technical assistance, consulting services, and physical contingencies,
which have been allocated to the three project components in proportion to the
construction costs involved. The principal assumptions used in the economic
evaluation are given in Annex 11 and Table 10. Details of operating costs
and profits for fish-processing are given in Table 11. Shadow pricing has
been used for costs and benefits, in particular labor costs.
5.09      The economic return was estimated by comparing the proposed invest-
ment with the "without" solution. The latter is not a complete "do nothing"
solution, however, as it has been assumed that even without the project, the.
pressure of congestion will make it necessary for some significant improve-
ments to be undertaken. The values of some parameters are quite uncertain,
and will depend largely on Government decisions regarding: (i) the extent
of industrial development in the region which will directly affect traffic
levels; (ii) future tax rates on fish product exports; and (iii) the per-
centage of profits of foreign firms retained locally; and (iv) participation
of the Government in development of the fishing industry. A systematic sensi-
tivity and risk analysis was therefore conducted for the entire project and
for its principal components.



- 18 -
Consolidated Project
5.10      The project as a whole will yield a rate of return of about 26%
over a period of 25 years, and a first-year benefit of about 34% (26% only
if associated development costs of the fishing sector are included) (Table 12).
Even in the event of an exceptionally unfavorable economic situation where all
benefit streams would be reduced by 30% (due to traffic at the Commercial
Berths or increases in operational productivity at the Fishing Berths being
lower than expected), the project would still yield a return of 19%. These
results have been confirmed by a risk analysis based on a sample of 200 possible
combinations of cost and benefit streams within the range ±30% from the best
estimate. There is only an 18% probability of obtaining a rate of return
lower than 20% (see Graph). Net present value of the project amounts to
UM 1,416 million (US$34.5 million) at 12% interest rate, and the benefit/cost
ratio is 2.0. Total quantifiable net project benefits, estimated at US$1.1
million in 1978, are expected to increase to US$10.6 million by 1983, and have
been assumed to remain constant at that level for the remainder of the project
port life, as full capacity of the extended Commercial and Fishing Berths will
be reached by that time.
Fishing Berths
5.11      Important differences can be seen between the several components of
the project.  The Fishing Berth has the highest rate of return (30%) due to-
expected increases in exports of fish products, and in taxes on fish-
processing activities. When full utilization of berthing facilities is
achieved, these additional taxes will amount annually to about UM 154 million
(US$3.8 million). Other direct benefits include non-repatriated benefits of
fishing plants (US$3.1 million p.a.), additional labor in fishing plants
(shadow priced at 50% of nominal wages) (US$0.6 million p.a.), additional
wages of Mauritanian sailors (US$0.4 million p.a.), and some additional taxes
on sales of bunker (diesel oil). These benefits will in fact only partly
compensate for recurrent costs incuded by development of the fishery sector
(increased capacity of fish plants, additional recurrent costs for development
of the domestic fishing fleet, housing and public facilities), the total amount
of which is estimated at about US$2 million p.a. Table 13 gives forecast cost
and benefit streams and assumptions, and Table 14 the details of the economic
return calculation.
Commercial Berths
5.12      On the basis of present: tariffs, the economic return on this item
averages 15%. Benefits accruing from extension of the berths are: (i) reduc-
tion of ship-waiting time equivalent to US$1 per ton of cargo; (ii) decrease
in ship operating costs estimated at US$2.9 per ton; this includes the reduc-
tion of service time (US$1.7 per ton) due mainly to decreased lighterage,
and of stevedoring costs due to the greater average number of hatches to be
worked following berth extension; and (iii) savings on loss and damage as a
result of decreased lighterage (1.2% of average cargo value of US$900 per ton).



- 19 -
5.13      There is some uncertainty regarding the percentage of savings on
cargo ship operations which will finally pass to Mauritania. Since the
recent pooling arrangements among Shipping Conference members for operations
in the country, freight tariffs are based not only on efficiency of operations
at Nouadhibou, but also at Nouakchott (on which are applied a 20% surcharge
over the rates for Nouadhibou). Analysis of dry cargo shipments shows that
during the forecast period, no important changes are expected in the compe-
titive position of conference and charter or tramp vessels. Conference line
vessels will continue to carry about 45% of dry cargo freight (imports for
MIFERMA and for the inhabitants of Nouadhibou, and some equipment for con-
struction of new plants); charter or tramp vessels will carry the remaining
55% of the traffic (of which three-quarters will be exports of fish products).
For calculation of the economic return, it has been assumed that the entire
savings on charter or tramp traffic would derive directly or indirectly to
Mauritania by reducing the freight costs of imports and exports. In order
to take account of possible increases in freight tariffs during the construc-
tion period, and the importance of traffic of foreign-owned industrial plants,
it has been assumed that only 80% of the savings on Conference liner operations
would accrue to the country. The 15% return obtained under these assumptions
is satisfactory.
Approachway to General. Cargo Berths
5.14      Replacement and widening of the approachway will eliminate the
existing 10-ton maximum load limitation for operations between the berths
and the shore, and will help reduce the more expensive lighterage operations
for the heaviest loadings. Savings of about US$1.6 per ton are expected
from higher handling rates and lower costs on shore operations. Trucks and
trailers will have direct access to the Commercial Berths, and the present
method of handling cargo in units of 2 or 3 tons with small carry-cranes
will be limited only to high-value items. These more adequate handling
conditions will also permit a reduction of on-shore losses estimated at 0.3%
of cargo (mainly fish products). Substantial savings will also be obtained
on maintenance costs for the approachway, which is now almost at the end of
its useful life. Without the project, about US$0.7 million would have to be
spent within the next four years to maintain its existing level of service.
On these assumptions, the investment yields a satisfactory economic return
of 23% over a period of 15 years.
Commercial Berths and Approachway Combined
5.15      For both improvements envisaged at the Commercial Berths (construc-
tion of the extension and approachway), the economic return would be 18%.
If total benefits were reduced by 30%, the return would fall to 13% over a
period of 25 years. Net present value at 12% will amount to UM 170 million
(US$4.2 million), and the benefit/cost ratio to 1.4. First-year benefit
amounts to UM 51 million (US$1.26 million), and first-year benefit/cost
percentage to 15%. Port simulation and cost parametric analyses indicate
that a useful complementary temporary improvement of berthing facilities at
one of the Ramps located near the Commercial Berth could be undertaken



- 20 -
(dredging to 4.5 m, extension of about 10 m, and connections for supply
facilities). Such improvements wrould relieve the burden of operations at
the Commercial Berths during construction of its extension or periods of peak
traffic, and have therefore been included in the present project.
5.16      Risk analysis confirms the 18% rate of return obtained from best
estimates. There is a 90% chance that the rate will be within the range
of 15-25%. Table 16 gives data from the port simulation model; details of
the rate of return calculation are in Table 17.
5.17      Estimated economic returns on the civil works items of the proposed
project are as follows:
Consolidated Project            26%
Fishing Berths                  30%
Commercial Berths               15%
Approachway                     23%
Commercial Berths and
Approachway combined            18%
Other Benefits
5.18      The port extension is also expected to generate substantial indirect
benefits which are not quantified in the economic evaluation. Most important
of these will be additional employment in sub-contracting activities of the
fishing industry, and training of local labor. Also, the expected industrial
development of the area around Nouadhibou will facilitate urgently needed
improvements in the level of urbart services.
Conclusion
5.19      The economic evaluation shows that additional cash receipts accruing
to the Government from the project: (mainly taxes on fish exports, on fish
processing plants, on sales of diesel oil to fishing vessels, and-Government's
share of non-repatriated net benef-its to foreign enterprises), will increase
from about UM 130 million in 1978 to about UM 250 million in 19S3 when tne
port facilities will be fully utilized. These receipts, together with additional
revenues expected from fishing rights (conservatively estimated at about UM 25-
30 million), would permit the Govetrnment to (i) give PAN the financial support
necessary to achieve its financial objectives (para. 6.01); (ii) participate
more actively in financing development of the fishing sector; and (iii) initiate
its long-range strategy to use part of the revenues from fishing, its second
largest present natural resource, for development of the rural or traditional
sector.



- 21 -
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Government Finances in Relation to the Proposed Project
6.01      Although the fishery sector accounts for only about 5% of Mauritania's
GDP, it makes a significant contribution to public revenues in the form of
direct and indirect taxes and fishing rights fees, and in this respect it is
vital to the Government. The proposed project will, directly or indirectly,
contribute to increased net Government revenues according to the following
estimates:
Nature of Additional
Revenue/Expense                                   Amount (UM million)
1977    1978    1979    1980    Total
I.   Additional Revenues
Additional taxes fishing sector
Processing plants (exports,
corporate  taxes, etc.)             35      66      102       137     340
Supply of oil products
(bunkering to foreign fleets
and plants)                         8      15       24        29      76
Net benefits not repatriated
(estimated 70% for Government)        20      40       60        70     190
Fishing rights' fees                  26       28      30        32     116
Other benefits (including improve-
ments at the Commercial Berth)         1        4       6        10       21
Total                 90      153     222       278     743
Less:
II. Additional Expenses (Government
participation)
Inyestments for development of
the fishing sector (fishing vessels,
plant expansion, public utilities)  57        120     130        80     387
III. Net Additional Revenues (I-II)        33       33      92       198     356
IV.  Dividend from PAN                     16       31      31        31     109
V.   Total Net Additional Revenue          49       64      123      229     465
Return on the port project cost
(UM 1.13 billion)                    4.3%    5.7%   11.0%    20.5%



- 22 -
6.02      The table shows that over the period 1977-80, the Government will
earn net additional revenue of EM 465 million (US$11.3 million). In addi-
tion, the Government can receive from the port during this period, a minimum
dividend of UM 109 million (US$2.6 million) on its assumed total equity.
The Government would therefore recover the entire project cost within seven
years of its implementation, and would earn after 19- an annual return of
about 21% on the additicnal equity contribution it will make to PAN through
the proposed project.
6.03      Of the total estimated,project cost of UM 1.13 billion (US$27.5
million equivalent), half the cost of the administrative buildings and the
entire cost of the navigation aids equipment, sailors' club, and studies
for development of ship-repair facilities, are finally bearable by the Govern-
ment; the net total cost of the project allocable to the port as the Govern-
ment's additional equity is thus UM 904.88 million (US$22.07 million).
B.   Port Finances
Background
6.04      Until the establishment of PAN in July/August 1973, Nouadhibou
port was administered by the local Public Works Department. There was no
separate budget. Charges on vessels and cargo were those prescribed by the
Government in 1961. Revenue was credited to the Government, and expenditure
was covered by allocations from its budget. Consultants BCEOM collated and
reported the receipts and expenses of the port for the years 1967-72; these
statistics have been relied upon, after allowing for estimated depreciation,
and used in the present financial analysis for comparison with data for
subsequent years.
6.05      Under the amended port legislation, PAN would have to earn, after
meeting all operational expenses including depreciation and taxes, a financial
return on fixed assets sufficient to cover debt and interest charges, and to
provide adequate working capital and reserves for contingencies and for port
development. To allow attaining these financial targets, it is essential
that deficiencies and anomalies in the budgeting system be rectified, and
that tariffs be cost-based. Technical assistance for this purpose is pro-
vided under the proposed project (para. 3.15).
Present Position
6.06      Table 18 gives details of revenue and expenditure for the last
three complete years when the port was administered by the Government, and
for the second half of 1973, the initial operational period of PAN. The
table is summarized below:



- 23 -
(in UN Million)
Operating   Operating      Net Operating   Working   Operating   Rate of
Year              Revenues    Expenses  /1 Revenue/Deficit   Ratio         Ratio      Return
%          %%
1970                5.98          9.65           (3.67)         69          161
1971                7.51         10.73 /2        (3.22)         69          143
1972                9.64          9.83           (0.19)         45          102
July 1 to
Dec. 31, 1973    8.96 /3        5.05            3.91           12          56       3.0 /4
Note:  Figures for 1970-72 pertain to the Government accounts as collated by
BCEOM.
/1   Including estimated depreciation.
/2   Increase due to major repairs.
/3   Including UM 2.33 million for the previous period.
/4   On net fixed assets in use.
Operating revenues show an upward trend; nevertheless, results are unsatis-
factory. Net operating deficits were realized until 1972; as regards the
second half of 1973, if the arrears income were excluded, the net operating
revenue would have been sufficient to pay a dividend of only 2% p.a. on the
Government equity in the form of original assets transferred to the port.
6.07      No balance sheets were kept over the period when the port was
directly under the Government. Based mainly on BCEOM's valuation of the
port's fixed assets as of January 1, 1973, their net value as of July 1, 1973
has been estimated by PAN at about UM 130 million. This value appears in
PAN's opening balance sheet, and will represent the Government's initial
capital contribution. The net value of fixed assets as of December 31, 1973
has been computed by PAN at about UM 128 million, including a small addition
made during the half-year (Table 19). Cash has increased from UM 1.11
million to UM 5.83 million at December 31, 1973. Cash is placed with two
banks, and earns interest at 5.5% p.a. The ratios of current assets and
liquid assets to current liabilities for the half-year are satisfactory.
Receivables from trade represent about 23% of gross revenue, but for the
most part have not been outstanding for more than two months.
Future Prospects
6.08      The Association's assessment of the future financial prospects of
Nouadhibou port indicates that with implementation of the agreed plan of
action, the port should find it possible to meet all the obligations specified
in para. 6.05, as well as to pay a reasonable dividend to the Government on
its total equity.



- 24 -
6.09      The above conclusion is based on the premise that the port should
have no difficulty in introducing, from July 1, 1977, cost-based revised
tariffs which would increase annual operating receipts at least 45% (UM 10
million for half-year ending December 31, 1977). Based on these tariff
increases, and on increasing interest revenue from cash surpluses retained
in the Renewal and Expansion Fund, the port would then be able to pay to the
Government a dividend on its total equity of 3% from 1977. Other principal
assumptions made are described in Annex 12. Details of the forecast revenue
and expenditure accounts based on these assumptions are given in Table 18.and
summarized below:
(UM million)
Rate of Return
Operating  Operating  Net Operating  Working  Operating    on Average Net
Year  Revenues   Expenses      Revenue        Ratio      Ratio       Fixed Assets
1974    26.64       14.09       12.55          24        53             10.1
1975    36.64       16.63       20.01          24        45             17.1
1976    39.07       18.85       20.22          29        48             18.5
1977    54.88      32.32        22.56          24        59              6.9
1978    70.98      45.75        25.23          21        64              2.6
1979    75.42      47.90        27.52          23        63              3.0
1980    81.53      50.46        31.07          24        62              3.5
6.10      The exact tariff level will be established from the studies to be
carried out by technical assistance experts financed under the proposed
project.
6.11      Some increase in Government revenue from fees for fishing rights
has been allowed for as part of the economic benefits of the project. The
Government is alive to the need for developing the fishing sector, and it can
be assumed that it will consider such relevant factors as the tonnage and
market value of the species, when fixing fees for new licenses or renewal of
existing ones.
6.12      If, for sensitivity purposes, a shortfalU of up to 10% in the esti-
mated additional traffic in 1977 at the Commercial Berths is assumed, the
net operating revenue would decline by about UM 2 million. It should be
possible to generate this additional amount through tariff increases in
order to maintain the financial rate of return, and the dividend, at the
desi.ed minimum levels indicated earlier. However, should there be a short-
fall of 30% in such additional traffic as assumed in the extreme economic
sensitivity case, it would be difficult to recoup the loss of operating
revenues of UM 6 million through tariff increases without inhibiting traffic,
and the anticipated 3% dividend p.a. would probably fall to an average of
slightly over 2% p.a. in view of the total benefits accruing to the Govern-
ment from the project, this could still be considered acceptable.



- 25 -
Financing Plan
6.13      The sources and application of funds over the project period (1975-
78), on the assumptions mentioned in Annex 12, are detailed in Table 20 and
summarized below:
UM       US$ Million
Million      Equivalent      Percentage
Source of Funds
Net internally generated (after
allowing for dividend and
increase in cash)                          8.07          0.20              1
Government capital contribution            904.88         22.07             99
Total                                912.95         22.27             100
Application of Funds
Capital expenditure:
Non-Project                                1.00          0.02
Project                                  904.88         22.07             99
Investment in SAMMA                          6.02          0.15              1
Increase in working capital                  1.05          0.03
Total                                912.95         22.27             100
6.14      The annual cash surplus improves continuously up to 1976, tapers
off in 1977, and then increases again from 1979 due to better receipts.
Without the generation of additional revenue from 1977, the cash surplus
would be inadequate for the port's needs, and the financial position would
be correspondingly weak.
6.15      The forecast balance sheet data are in Table 19.  Financing of the
entire project cost allocable to the port will be by a Government capital
contribution. The accumulated cash balance of UM 180 million as of December 11,
1980, will represent the assets of the Reserve Fund and the Renewal and Expan-
sion Fund to be created under the amended legislation. This balance is not
excessive in view of the high project cost and the consequent large provision
for depreciation, as well as the probable need for further development of the
port. The balance will be re-cycled into the national economy through the
banking system. Because of the accrual of interest-earning cash balances,
the ratios of current and liquid assets to current liabilities are pre-
dominantly in favor of the former.



- 26 -
6.16      On completion of the project, the net fixed assets in use will
increase to UM 964 million at the end of 1977, then decline to UM 882 million
at the end of 1980. The financial rate of return on the average value of net
fixed assets in use will be 6% in 1977, decline sharply thereafter, and oscil-
late at about 3.5% due to broadening of the average asset base and stagnation
of net operating revenue (Table 18). The operating ratios are satisfactory.
The working ratios are also satisfactory, but since it is desirable that PAN
should maintain these, the Government has agreed that PAN will maintain a
working ratio of not more than 35% during 1975 and 1976, and not more than
30% in 1977. and thereafter. The turnover ratio declines in later years as
the asset base widens.
6.17      In addition to the agreement reached with the Government for its
consultation with the Association regarding investments in facilities for
the port (para. 4.02), the Government has also agreed to the usual Bank Group
debt limitation condition under which PAN will not, without prior approval of
the Association, incur any long-term debt unless its net cash revenue is at
least 1-1/2 times its maximum future debt service requirement.
6.18      In order to allow PAN to achieve its financial objective and to
ensure success of the financing plan, an understanding has been reached with
the Government as follows:
(i)  that it will make a capital contribution to PAN
equivalent to the entire cost of the project allocable
to the port (estimated at about UM 900 million);
(ii)  that it will not levy income tax on PAN for a period
of 25 years; and
(iii)  that (a) it will take or cause PAN to take such measures
as necessary to enable PAN to achieve net operating
revenues, sufficient to yield annual rates of return
on net fixed assets in use of not less than 6% up to
1977, and of not less than 2.5% thereafter; and (b) it
will ensure payment by PAN to the Government on its
total equity of an annual dividend of at least 3% from
1977 onwards.
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, the question of project supervision was
discussed and agreement reached with the Government, PAN, and the co-
financers, that Bank Group procedures will be respected, and that the
Association will have the principal role in this supervision (para. 4.11).



- 27 -
7.02      During negotiations, the following principal items were discussed
and agreed with the Government:
(I) that it will, in conjunction with PAN, implement the
agreed plan of action in a manner satisfactory to the
Association; that it will not expand PAN's activities
until PAN is adequately staffed; and that it will consult
with the Association before any such expansion is under-
taken during implementation of the plan of action (para.
3.17);
(ii)  that it will (a) take measures necessary to finalize
preparation of a port master plan, in consultation
with the Association, within a year from the date of
signing of the proposed Credit Agreement; (b) from
time to time consult with the Association on its
program. and on PAN's program for investments in facilities
for the port; and (c) consult with the Association prior
to making any investments in facilities for the port
(other than those included in the project) exceeding
UM 10 million (US$244,000) in any one year during imple-
mentation of the project (para. 4.02);
(iii) that PAN will maintain a working ratio of not more than
35% during 1975 and 1976, and not more than 30% in 1977
and thereafter (para. 6.16);
(iv) that it will ensure that PAN will not, without prior
approval of the Association, incur any long-term debt
unless its net cash revenue is at least 1-1/2 times
its maximum future debt service requirement (para.
6.17);
(v) that it will make a capital contribution to PAN
equivalent to the entire cost of the project allocable
to the port, and that it will not levy income tax on
PAN for a period of 25 years (para. 6.18); and
(vi) that it will (a) take or cause PAN to take such measures
as necessary to enable PAN to achieve net operating
revenues sufficient to yield annual rates of return on
net fixed assets in use of not less than 6% up to 1977,
and of not less than 2.5% thereafter; and (b) ensure
payment by PAN to the Government on its total equity
of an annual dividend of at least 3% from 1977 onwards
(para. 6.18).



- 28 -
7.03      Signature of the KFAED and CCCE Loan Agreements will be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (para. 4.16).
7.04      The proposed project. is suitable for a Credit of US$8.0 million
equivalent to the Government of Mauritania on standard IDA terms.
October 13, 1975.



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBDU PORT PROJECT
Actual Service Time and Productivity Rates at the Commercial Berth
Average Cargo (tons)                   Ship Time in Port (Hour.)              Tons/Hour in Port  -/                   Tons/Working Hour  6/
Traffic                       Total  East Apron 2/ West Apron 3/         Total  East Apron   West Apron    Total   East Apron   West Apron         Total   East Apron   West Apron
1.    J r Cargo                 543         679             313            59        54            67          9.3      12.6           4.7          24.0       32.5          12.1
Nixed cargoes 4/             432         574             213            51        42            64          8.6      13.6          3.3           21.5       33.6          88.6
lxport frozen fish           762         803             562            81        82            78          9.4        9.8         7.2           25.5       27.2          17.6
Bagged salt, provisions
for fishing vessels          576        666              448           62         47            83         9.3       14.2          5.4           24.1       31.7          16.1
Fishmeal (bags)              448           -             448           82          -            82          5.5        -           5.5           15.3         -           15.3
Cement                     1,020       1,279             605           57         68            39        17.9       18.9         15.4           46.7       52.5          34.0
2. Oil Import                   844         802           1,013            20        19            21         42.7       41.1        48.6           92.5       89.2         104.8
3. Total                        579         697             361            54        49            64         10.7       14.3         5             27.5       36.4          14.6
NOTfS:
1/  Lighterage operations excluded.
f/  Length 77 a, draft 7.5 m.
3/  Length 55 m, draft 6.0 a.
1/ No proper exploitation of ship manifests is made in Nouadhibou.  The only information available on traffic commodity groups is fbr full
cargo ship loadings (cenent, frozen fish, etc.). Traffic of larger cargo liners is classified "mixed cargoest.
5/ For an average of 2.5 hatches worked.
Z/  Based on the present average of 9 hours per day, 5.5 days per week.
Source: Bank mission's analysis of ship-call records for year 1973 and first quarter &P 1972 and 1974.
August 1974.



Table 2
HAUIUANI
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Details of Cost Estimates v
U--    Million -------    -- US$ Million Equiv.k-
Lccal    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
I,  Civil Works                          -                     __
A.  Commercial berth                72.86      129.522/ 202.38       1.78       3.16      4.94
Fishing berth                  120.31      213.89Y/ 334.20      2.93        5.22      8,15
Approachway                     32.69       58.ll.2!  90.80     0.80        1.41      2.21
(627o38)                        (15.30)
B.  Sewerage Scheme 1/              29.52       52.48    82.00       0.72       1.28      2.00
C.  Buildings: various 1/           46.12       69.18   115,30      1.12        1.69      2.81
D.  Supervision of construction
of civil works                   3.45       31.05    34h50      0.08        0.76      0.84
II. Equipment
A.  Harbor Master's launf  i/        0.41        1.62      2.03    001         0.04      0.05
B. Navy  aids equipment !            4b10       16.20    20.30      0.10        0.O40     0.50
III. Technical Assistance -
A.  To PAN Sp. Services               2.87      25.83    28.70       0.07        0.63     0.70
B.  Training of PAN        )
IV. Studies 1/
A.  Ship repair facility             1.83       10.34    12,17       0.05       0.25      0.30
V. Contingencies
A.  Physical at 5%                   15.24      27.71    42e95       0.37        0.68     1.05
B.  Price at 18.2%                  58.27      105.91   164.18       1.42       2.58      4.00
Total Project Cost         387.68      741.85  1129.53      9.46       18.09    27.55
m                                  -
1/ Estimated by Bank staff,
2/ Local and foreign components 36% + 64% respectively from bids received June 16, 1975,
/  Exchange rate of US$1 =  441h.00
4/  Including all taxes and duties,etc..



Table 3
MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIEOU PORT PRWJECT
Details of Tenders received for Port Construction
1.       Tenderers were invited to bid for the works "as designed", and also to
submit alternatives for reconstruction of the approachway as an open-piled struc-
ture in lieu of the combination rock armor/sheet pile earthfill causeway proposed
by the consultants. In para. 2 below,"A"is for construction of a new piled approach-
way 9 m wide  alongside the existing structure, and "B" is for demolition of the
existing structure and reconstruction of the entire approachway as a piled struc-
ture with two lanes each of 6 m width.
2.       Four tenders were received for Lot 1 as follows:
UM           Ratio
Societe des Grands Travaux de l'Est (GTE)
As designed                                   627,373,883       (100)
Alt rnatives: Piled approachway "A"           571,609,898
"1       "1    "B"           618,167,278
Construction period: 21 months
Entreprise de Travaux Publics de l'Ouest (ETPO)
As designed                                   675,414,329      (107.6)
Alternatives: None offered
Construction period: 30 months
Polensky et Zollner/SATOM/E.G.B.
As designed                                   695,488,194      (110.8)
Alternatives:  Piled approachway "A"l         670,780,384
,,     11      '"B"         772,301,769
Construction period: 24 months
Entreprise Morillon Corvol Courbot (EMCC)
As designed                                   752,589,183      (115.6)
Alternatives: None offered
Construction period: 21 months
3.       It can be seen that the tenders are closely spaced (15.6%).  The low bid
is submitted by a firm which has a good reputation, was responsible for construction
of the original port works at Nouadhibou, and has carried out other major engineering
works in Mauritania. The tender seemed to be well prepared and presented.



TABLE 4
MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Project Expenditure
IDA Fiscal Year                             Cumulative Expenditure
and Quarter Ending                             at End of Quarter
(U8$ million)
1975/76
December 1975                                        2.58
March 1976                                           3.90
June 1976                                            7e32
1976/77
September 1976                                      11.83
December 1976                                      16.34
March 1977                                           20.73
June 1977                                           23.17
1977/78
September 1977                                      25.37
December 1977                                       25.61
karch 1978                                           25.85
June 1978                                           26.10
1978/79
September 197t                                      27.55



TABLE 5
MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOIJADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from the Proposed Credit
IDA Fiscal Year                Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                  at End of Quarter
(USg million)
1975/70
December 1975                           o0.5
March 1976                              1.34
June 1976                               2.07
1976/77
September 1976                          3.17
December 1976                           4.51
lMarch 1977                             5.73
June 1977                               6.54
1977/78
September 1977                          6.95
December 1977                           7.15
March 1979                              7. 31
June 1978                               7.54
1977/78
September 1978                          8.00



L;'AURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Traffic at the Fishing and Commercial Forts
1971        1972        1973        %
Total Calls
Commercial Wharf                          270          287        -293        7
Fishing Port                            7.001 O45O3             3.,676       93
7,271       5,74       3,969       in
Brthings
Commercial Wharf -/                     1,237                     786        26
Fishing V.harf                          1,744        1,871      1,637        54
2,198       1 '917        64        20
Total                        5,1079 3,5O 7
GRT (00o)
Co.mmercial wharf                         311          324        372        57
Fishing Port                              188          148        279        43
79-9        472         051-     100
1raffic (100 t)
Commercial Wharf                           96          12        129        62
Fishing Port                               57           67          78       38
m3          T9          207      io00
1/  Fishing Wharf and Ramps; traffic includes small fishing craft.
2'/ Including utilization of the Wharf by fishing vessels for bunkering water and diesel-oil.
Source: PAN
July 1974.



MIAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU FORT PROJECT
Trffic at the Cooercial Wharf
(000 tons)
- -- -- - - ----Actual ----- --- --- - --  -------- -- -- - ---- - ---- -- -- -- - ------- - ------ -- ------ - - - --- - ---- -Forecast - -- --- -- ---- - ------ ---- --- - ---- ---- ------ ------------- ---------------------- __  _ __ __
1l70      1971       1972      1973      1974      1975      1976            1977              1978              1979               1980               1981                1982
Withoz   With    WithouWt ith   Witho-   With    without  With    without   with              Without   With        __it_o_   with
I. DIPORTS
Salt                     7          8         8          7         4        4          4         4        5         4        6        5        7        5         8        5         8         5         8            5        8
Goodf for Nouadhibou    10         11        14         12        13       14         16        is       20        20       24      22        28       25        33       28        38        31        43           33       48
Population
Mifarma Railway renewal
equipasnt               35         37        39         40        35       35         30        30       30        30       30      30        30       30        30       30        30        30        30           30       30
Guelba new mine eon-
struction                          -                               -        5         30        30        30                                                                        3535-
*truction   ~  ~          ~_                       _ 3  3~ -~ -    -
Subtotl               52         56        64         62        52       58         80        82        85       54       60       57       65       60        71       98       in        101       116           68       86
Planned new industriee   -          -         -          -        14        40        40        30       33        28       31       20       21       20        23        21       26        21        26           21       26
Oil refinery construc-
tion                      -         -         -          -         -         -         -        30       35        40       40        -        -        -         -         -        -----
Other (fisheries and
otbr industriea)         2          3         4          4         4        4          5         5         5        5        7        7       10      10         12       12        13        14        17 16                 20
Subtotal                2         3         4          4        ia       44                   6 o5      a       _         7        27       31      30         35       33        39        35        43          -a        46
Total tuports Dry
Copr rts Do y     54        59         68         _         70      102       125        147     15.       127      188       84       96       90       106       131      150        136      159          105       IJ2
Oil                       -        _         21         21        _        34         39        44        49       10       10       _        _        _         _        _         _         _         _            _        _
Total Imports Traffic  54          6         89         87       100      136        163       191       2.       in.      149       84       96      90        106      131       150       136       159          L05      132
II. gXPORTS
iah prodccts            24         27        29        35         39       45        48         54       58       56        86      56      103        56      119        56      122         56      125           56       125
Planned new industriea   -          -         -          -         -         2        Ll        12       12        14       14       15       15        15       15       17        17        17        17           17       17
Otber induced activities 2          2         3          8         2        2          2         2         2        2        2        3        3        4         6        5         9          7       10           2        11
Total aports Dry
Careo                    26        29                   la        41       49         63.       68       82        72      102       74      121       75       140        78      148        80       152           82      153
III. TOTAL DMT CARCO
TRAFIC (Imports +
Exports)                80         88       100       109        1n       1j         186       215       M        2in      240     158       217      165       246      209       298       216       311         X97       .S5
IV. GRAND TOTAL
(including oil)         80         97       121        130        41      15         224       259      23        209      250     18        21       165       246      209       298       2                      187      28;
* With and witbout the proposed project.
1/  Excluding traffic pertaining to a possible steel plant ProJect  (oifing and capacity of which in not determined).
Source: BCEOM, PAN. FAO and Bank mission estimates.
Septmber 1975.



4AURITAIIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
H sh Landings. Actual and Forecast
(00tons)
Total Landings           Landings of Frozen Fish    Landings of Fresh Fish                            Landings of Fresh Fish at the Fishing Wharf
(All Port Facilities)        (Mainly for Canning)         (All Port Facilities)                 Total                  Demersal Octopus                 Pelagic
Year             Without '       With 2       Without         With         Without          With         Without         With         Without         With          Without         With
1973                80                            2                            78                          66                            12                          14
1974                S2                            2                            90                          73                           16                            57
1975               108                            3                           105                          86                           19                            67
1976                                              3                           l1'i                         90                            22                           68
;977               121           153              4             4             117           149             ih            127            25             33            70             94
t97P               125           192              4             5             121           187            98            161            27             43             71            Li.
1979               125           228              4             6             121           222            98            192            27             53             71            139
1980               126           253              4             7             122           246            98            214            27             64             71            150
19f1               126           256              4             7             122           249            98            218            27             65             71            i J
1982 and after    126            260              4             7             122           253            98            221             27            65             71            15e
I/ ;.tithout - Without the project (including some anticipated improvements in ice production and distribution, working hours, fish pumps capacity, etc.)
With    - With the Projp.t.
Source: BC3CO, PAN, FAO and Bank .ission esti,.ates.
Sepcembfi 1975



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Exports of Fish Products
(000 tons)
Total Exports
Drv, Salted         Frozen           Fishmeal             Canned                Oil      of Fish Products
Year      Without!_  With_!  Without   With   Without   With   Without   With   Without   With   Without   With
1973         4                  17                 10                 1                 3                 35
1974          3                 19                 13                 1                 3                 39
1975          3                 22                 15                1                  4                45
1976          3                 25                 15                 1                 4                48
1977          3        3        29      39         16       19        2        2        4         5      54        68
1978          3        4        31      49         16       25       2         2        4         6      56        86
1979          3        5        31      59         16       29        2        3        4         7      56       103
1980          3        5        32      70         16       32        2        4        4         8      56       119
1981          3        6        32      72         16       32        2        4        4         8      56       122
1982 and
after         3        6        32      75         16       32        2        4        4         8      56       125
1/ With and without the proposed project.
Source: BCEOM, PAN, FAO, and mission estimates.
September 1975
0
%.D



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUAlfIBOU POitT P1ROJECT
Commercial Berth
Assumptions Used For Fort Simulation Model
Ships Category No                           1                   2                 3                     4                     5                      6                   7                8
1.  GRT Class                                 Less than 1500       Less than 2000        2000-6000             6000-9000         More than 9000            6000-9000             2000              2000
2.  Ship Type                                Small Coasters!/ &   Other small         Small Liners &   Medium size Liners   Liners berthing   Liners (lightering   Oil Tankers  Vessels taking supplies
Frozen Cargo Vessels        Coasters       Cement Trampers        General Cargo          at the Wharf          operations)                          (cargo ships)
3.  Average Length (meters)                          60                    75               110                    130                  145                    140                65               75
4.  Average Draft (meters)                          4.5                  5.0                6.5                    7.0                  7.5                 7 to 9               5.5              5.5
5.  Hatches Worked:  Without*                       1.7                  2.0                2.5                   3.0                   3.0                    2.7                -                -
With *                       1.7                  2.3               3.2                    4.0                  4.0                    2.7                 -                -
6.  Average Cargo (177):  Without                   330                  400                900                  1000                  1100                    960              1000
With                   330                  450               1000                  1200                  1400                   960               1000               -
7.  Arrivals (1977)2/: Without                       69                   53                 90                     55                   15                     30                47               40
With                       76                    60                95                     62                   18                     19                50               50
8.  TonsAituh /working hour:  Without               5.7                  7.2               15.1                  13.9                  15.3                   10.5                -
With               6.5                   8.7              18.9                   16.7                 18.7                   10.5                 -                -
9.  Mean Service Time (H):  Without                  45                    37                32                     32                   32                     45                19               10
With                  40                   30                 22                    24                    25                    45                 19               10
10.  Erlang Coefficient Arrivals                       1                     1                 1                      1                    2                      1                 3                1
Service time               3                     3                 2                      2                    2                      1                 4                1
11.  Ship Waiting Cost (US$/hour)                     50                    70                115                  170                  200                    200                 80               60
12.  On board handling costs alongside
(US$/ton)                 Without                 4.5                  4.0              3.8                    3.4                  3.4                    5.2               0.8               -
With                   4.2                  3.6              3.4                    2.9                  2.9                    5.2               0.8               -
13.  Berthing priorities   3/                       West                  West               East                 East                   East                 Lighter            East              West
Lighter                East              Lighter              Lighter               Lighter                                   West              East
Lighter
With and without the proposed project.
1/  Mainly 3anarian  small coasters (imports for supplying   other fishing vessels and processing plants).  Includes some fishing vessels unloading miscellaneous cargoes (salt,
fishing equipment, food, frozen products for canning ...).
2/ Mission estimates assuming slight increase of average cargo with traffic increase.
/  East (longer external apron); west (smaller internal apron); lighter  (lighterage).
Source:    Mission Estimates.
September 1975
o



TABLE 11
MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Operating Costs and Profits
of Frozen Fish and Fishmeal Industry
(US$ per ton)
Frozan Fish           Fishmeal and Oil-/
1. Sale price (FOB)                                       740                         295
Costs (for existing capacity)
Raw materials                          320                        78
Manpower local                          20                        23
Manpower foreign                        14                        17
Fuel, electricity, water                22                        26
Maintenance, repairs,
miscellaneous supplies                18                        25
Storage, packing                        22                        14
Transport to factory and to ship        14                         6
110                      111
Overheads                               18                        17
Depreciation                            14                        24
32                       41
2. Total cost (taxes excluded)                            462                         230
3. Gross margin before taxes                              278                          65
4. Taxes
Export taxes                            30                        10
Other taxes (imports, corporate,etc.) 48                           9
78                         19
5. Net benefit                                            200                          46
6. Direct benefits for Mauritania             2
Additional salaries, domestic labor/                8                          11
Taxes                              3)              78                          19
Profits, equity, non-rapatriated -                 36 to 70                    134
7. Costs for increase of the capacity of
the placets (US$ million)                             22                           3
8. Mauritania share in development costs of
the placets (US$ million)                              6                           1
1/ Average cost per ton of total output including both fishmeal (80%) and fish oil (20%).
2/ Salaries net of recurrent costs.
3/ Based on progressive increase of the participation of Mauritania in the capital of
the processing plants (up to 25% by the mid 80's).
4/ Annual rent paid to Government (US$200,000) based on fishmeal production of 15,000 tons.
Source: FAO and mission estimates
September 1975



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADMIBOU PORT PROJECT
Consolidated Project - Extension of the Fishing Berth and the Csmmercial Berth and Rehabilitation of the Approachway
Economic Retorn of the Proposed Investments
1.     Internal Rate of Return
(a)   "Best estimate" - 26.2%
(b)   With traffic reduced 15% - 22.8%
(c)   With traffic reduced 30% - 19.0%
2.     Sensitivity Analysis (Bate of Return with Fellowing
Variations from "Best esti:satss")
Envisaged variations in cost or benefit streams fron
"best estimates" (%):                                                               -30         -20.        -15         "Best Estimate'           15         20          30
1.    Investmnt costs                                                              32.8         30.2        29.0             26.2                 23.9       23.2        21.9
2.    Recurrent costs                                                              27.3         28.1        27.6             26.2                 24.9       24.3        23.2
3.    Benefits from additional processing and export of fish prodocts              20.9         22.7        23.6             26.2                 28.8       29.6        31.2
4.    Wages of Mauritanian sailors + supplies vessals                              25.3         25.6         25.8            26.2                 26.6        26.7       26.8
5.    Savings on ship operations at the Couvnercial Berth                          25.6         25.8        25.9             26.2                 26.5       26.6        26.8
6.    Savings on shore operations (Approachway rehabilitation)                     25.6         25.8        25.9             26.2                 26.5       26.6        26.8
3.     Present Value - Benefit-Cost Ratio
Interest Rate %                                                                               Present Value (million UM) Best Estimate                               Net Benefit/Investment Cost Ratio (Beat Estlmate)
1                                                                                                    687.9                                                                              5.24
8                                                                                                    248.8                                                                              2.72
10                                                                                                     188.0                                                                             2.33
12                                                                                                     141.6                                                                             2.03
15                                                                                                      90.9                                                                             1.69
4.     First Year Benetits (mil.Lon UM)                                                                                   Best Estimate
Total Investment coat and recurrent costs-conntr-ction Berth and Apprsc.'cwsy                                          83.6
First year net benefit (year  5 - 1979)                                                                                28.6
% BYB                                                                                                                  34.2
5.     Cost Parametric Anal,sts
Amount of investment cost corresponding to a given rate of return (for "best estimate" and various voriatisns in net benefits streams)
Rate_of Return (%)                       First Year Benefit i%)                                      Corresponding Calculated Investment Cost (Million UM)
(based on construction cost only)                                 (for Pssible variatinn  in the net berefit stres)_
-15%           Base          +15%
19                                    7.7                                                            1128           1327          1526
21                                    8.8                                                              982          1155          1328
23                                   10.1                                                              862          1014          1166
25                                   11.4                                                              761           895          1030
27                                   12.5                                                             672            807           913
29                                   13.9                                                              596           742           823
6.     Risk Analysis
(a)   Possible variations of cost/benefit stream  from "best estimate" (%)                  -50            -30           -20            -10            0            10           20            30           50
(b)   Probability (%) associated with each range of variation in costs or benefits
Investment costs (construction, consulting, buildings, etc.)                            -             5              10            35            35           10             5
Recurrent costs fishing sect-r                                                          -              5             20             20           20            20           15
Recurrent costs doring construction of the Berth                                        -              5             15            25            40            10            5
Total benefits from processing and export of fish products                             10             10             20            20            20            10            5             5
Benefits from bunkering operations                                                     15             10             10             15           15            15           10            15
Additional wages of Maoritanias sailors                                                15             10             10            15            15            10           10           15
Savings on ship operations at Commercial Berth                                          -             10             20            20            20            20           10
Savings on shore operations (mainly from Approachway reconstroction)                    _             10             20            20            20            20           10
(c)   Results of the risk analysis
Rate of return from mean of probability distribution of rate of return = 26.3%
Probability to have a rate of return less than 20% - 18%
Probability to have a rate of returs falling between 20 and 30% - 51%
Source:  Bank mission
September 1975



bAURITAN A
APPRAISAL OF NOUADhIBOU PORT PROJECT
Fishing Berth
FORECAST COST ASD BENEFIT STREAMS'  (MILLION UM). PARAMETERS AND ASSUMPTIONS ADOPTED FOR CALCULATION OF TOE ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ C ost   Strem- - _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _          __ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _   _ B esefit  Ot-a -   _ _  _ _ _  _ _ __  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _                      Ba.- fits.  _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Saveatosni         nReurfent Coets Fishing Srte                                                                                       Additional Wages   Additionl Wages               BSpplyD
Cests /1       Total       Fish Pleets t2    DPomstic /3            Others: I4                 Additional   Net BseRfita /6           Unskilled Laboe    Ma_ritesian Sailors           Operations        Total          Teial Direct  Net Ditect
__________                 ______________       Fishitg Fleet       Fehlc Utilll¶ts            Taxes /5       Nests- etited           Fiah Plnets /7       and ForainR Vessels         benefit./9        Costs      Benefits       Dsmefita
Ne.    Years
1      1976                                260                                                -                      -                      -                  -                      -                       -                      -           260             -         -260
2      1977                                 lBS          82              28                  37                     17                     35                 22                      5                       4                      8            262           74          -88
3      1978                                   6         170              74                  46                     50                     66                 43                     11                       7                     15           176           142          -34
4       1979                                            I84              74                  55                     SS                    102                 71                     16                      12                     24            184          225           41
5      1980                                             117              49                  27                    41                     137                103                     21                      14                     29            117          30h          187
6      1981                                              96              43                  27                     26                    144                114                     22                      15                     31             96          326          230
7      1982                                              70              30                  27                     13                    154                129                     23                      16                     32             70          334          284
8-25   1983-2000                                         54              14                  27                     13                    154                129                     23                      16                     32            54           354          300
1.     ShBdo- priced cota itnaidina construction sea ts (e-stingBc.i.s in. led) and 5h% of total 000cr4   of addi-itoi costs Ror f               oildings, -esa1ltisg setvicee,  sehnical  ssit..noce, etc.
2.    FPr inarsase of fish plant capacity.  Estimated resp-cti-ely at us$ 6 million and US$ I millio- for fro=en planto med fioh e.s   plants (see Table 11).
3.     Assuting parchase of ai  additional Maorit-ai-n seinees by 1983/85.  Purcbhas  east satiF-ted at US$ 450,000 par .sit and  net additLionl ep-rsting cents (mainitane..    equipsnai, fishing squipmenC) at US$ 110,000 per v                            Issel/year.
4.     Assungi.  progressive iarease to 2.5 tin. prsent lees  of axpenditures by 1983.  Total cost esttmated at U0$ 4 million.
5.     Ta-es as axports of fish products end tax on B.I.C. (tax en bh.efits):  Total tan revenues at respsctively US$ 78 and US$ 19 psr toe  for fr-san products  ead ffshmeal and oil (races of 1974).
6.     See Tabls 11.
7.     Differases between arccunting and shades. peides.  Domestic labor pretise -.50.
8.     Assuming as iacsane of 450 Ma-ritsnia- sailors by the aid-80'a.
9.    Tlaes inulsded is sales of oil produtrs to the fereign fOshiag fleets aod  -srtia  (Boost 502 of taces) inclsded in the oil consumption of thc foreign proceastig plants.
sPerce:  Bank einsten
Sepimbher 1975



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADRIBOU PORT PROJECT
Fishing Berth Extension
Economic Return on the Proposed Investment
1.   InternaL rate of return
a)   Traffic best estimate       30.6%
b)   Traffic - 15%               25.4%
c)   Traffic - 30%: 21.4%
2.   Sensitivity analysis                                                                                 Value of the I.R.R. (%)
a)   Variations (%) from "best estimates" in costs or benefits                   - 30%         -15%        Best estimate         + 157         + 307
b)   Costs and benefit streams
1.  Investment costs                                                   37.1         33.5              30.6             28.2          28.3
2.  Associated development costs fishing sector                        35-3         32.9              30.6             28.6          26.3
3.  Additional taxes fishing plants                                    2'6.4        28.5              30.6             32.7          34.8
4.  Net profits non-repatriated                                        27.4         29.0               n._             32.2          33.8
5   Oil suppliis                                                       =;8.i        30.2              30.6             31.0          31.5
3.   Present value net benefits - benefit/cost ratio
Interest rate %                                                                   Present value (UM million)             Benefit/cost ratio
1                                                                                       5644                                5.74
8                                                                                       2101                                3.05
10                                                                                       1613                                2.63
12                                                                                       1243                                2.30
15                                                                                        849                                1.93
4.   First year benefit                                                                     Construction cost only               Construction costs + recurrent costs
Total construction cost (US million)                                                        446                                1219
First year benefit:  year 4; 1979 (UM million)                                              225                                  354
% F.Y.B.                                                                                   50.5                                29.0
5.   Risk analysis
1.   Variations (14%) from best estimates in costs and beoefits                        - 60        - 40        - 20         0         20        40         60
2.    Associated probability to each interval of variation
Construction cost                                                                               10         40        40         10
Development cost fishing sector                                                    5            10          10       20         35        20
Benefits                                                                          10            20         20        20         20        10
3.    Results risk analysis
Distribution mean      28.7h
Probability to have an I.R.R. less than 20% - 10%
Probability to have an I.R.R. between 20 and 35% = 76%
Source: Bank mission
September 1975



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Forecasts of Cargo Ship Operations at the Commercial Berth /
(2 Shifts of 8 hours/day)
Total Cargo
Tonnage general           Cargo Ship                                      Waiting Time/           Service Time/2           Ship Waiting
cargo                     Arrivals                Average cargo           Ship (Hour)             Ship (Hour)              Time Hours P.A.                    Lighterage /3
Year        Without*    With*          Without   With          Without    With         Without   With          Without   With          Without   With            Without                 With
'000 tons   %    '000 tons    X
1976          186        186             278      278            670      670           4.50      (11.00)        42        (50)          1251     (3058)           54       29       (74)     (40)
1977          215        235             316      321            680      730           5.00        2.55         42         37           1580       818            64       30        54       23
1978          199        240             288      320            690      750           5.10        2.25         42         34           1469       720            57       29        58       24
1979          158        217             225      289            700      750           2.00        0.90         41         34            450       260            43       27       53        24
1980          165        246             235      307            700      800           2.50        1.10         41         35            588       337            45       27       60        24
1981          209        298             290      350            720      850           4.60        3.00         42         36           1334      1050            62       30        74       25
1982          216        311             291      363            740      860           4.90       3.45          43         36           1426      1252            65       30        78       25
1983          187        285             252      331            740      860           2.70        1.21         42         36            680       439            52       28        70       24
*    With and without the proposed project.
1.   From port simulation model.  Based on cargo ship performances given in Table 10.
2.   Average including lighterage operations.
3.  For following queue management rule. Berthing priority at the Berth given to larger ships. Waiting time limited  to  about 107. of service time.  Two ships worked simultaneously
at lighterage if necessary.
()   Figures in brackets for construction period (Berth extension + reconstruction of the Approachway).
Source: Bank mission
September 1975



MAURITANIA
APPR4IS4L OF NOUAINI8OU PORT WROJCT
Comercial Berth and Aoproachway
Coat & Bmefit Streams "Best Hypothesis"
(Million UM)
Tons                   Cost Streams                                                                 Direct Benefit  Streams_______
Geeral Cargo   Investment    Total RecurrentVY   Ship  Waiting3/   Stevedorin  4/ Tim  Servicing    Cargo Losses 6/  On Shore-V                      Cargo Losses 8/   Berth  9/
(000 tons)     Costs /1 Berth Costs in Period          Time Savings          Costs             The Ship            savingse     Handling Costs          Savings    Maintenance
No      Year        Without  With   & Approachway  of Construction                                                                     (LiSM1te96)  (Approachway)            On Shore        Savings
1            2       3           14                 5
1        1976         186      186        238                45(5)                                  (                 (i)                (9)              (5)                   (10)            5
2        1977         215      235        148                                     4                  5                  7                 3                5                      8            10
3        1978         199      240           4                                    9                 11                 15                 6               11                      18           15
4        1979         158      217                                                6                  9                 13                 3               10                     15             5
5        1980         165      246                                                9                 10                 14                  5              10                      17            5
6        1981         209      298                                               14                 13                 18                 9               13                     20             5
7        1982         216      311                                               16                 13                 18                10               13                     21             3
8        1983 and    187       285                                               11                 12                 17                 6               12                     19             3
after
1.   Including physical contingencies and 46% of additional costs for buildings, sewage   supervision, technical assistance etc.  Shadow priced for domestic labor and foreign components.
2.   Total of recurrent costs given in () in benefit streams.
3.   From port simulation model and cost per ship/day given in Table 10.
4.   From port simulation model and productivity of derrick and on board handling costs given in Table 10 including additional cost for traffic diverted to lighterage.
5.   From port simulation model, ship waiting time cost and on board handling productivity given in Table 10.
6.   From port simulation model for volume of traffic diverted to lighterage.  Additional cargo losses on lighterage estimated at 1.2%.  Value of cargo is US$ 900 per ton.
7.   For traffic at the Berth.  Savings mainly from Approachway rehabilitation and widening.
B.   From improvement on shore handling conditions due to rehabilitation of the Approachway.  Based on reduction of cargo losses on shore 0.3% (Conservative estimate).
9.   Assuming maintenance costs for Approachway equivalent to 33% of cost of a new construction during the next four years, and routine and periodic maintenance at 5% of
construction cost thereafter.
Source:  Bank mission
September 1975



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Economic Return on Commercial Berth Extension and Approachvay Rehabilitation
1.   Internal rate of return
a)    For traffic best estimate                     17.8%
b)     "                           reduced 15%:   15.7%
c )    "      "     "         "      "      30%:   13.2%
2.   Sensitivity analysis
a)    Envisaged variations (%) in costs or benefits stream                                         - 30%          - 15%         Best estimate          15%          30%
b)    Cost of benefits
1.    Investment costs                                                                  24.5         20.6                17.8             15.6          13.7
2.    Recurrent costs during the construction period                                    18.4         18.1                                 17.4          17.1
3.    Ship waiting time savings                                                         17.1         17.4                                 18.2          18.4
4.    On board handling costs savings                                                   17.0         17.4                                 18.2          18.6
5.    Savings on tLme for servicing the ship                                            16.7         17.2                                 18.4          18.9
6.    Cargo losses savings (lighterage operations)                                      17.4         17.6                                 18.0          18.2
7.    Shore handling costs savings                                                      17.0         17.4                                 18.2          18.6
8.    Shore cargo losses savings                                                        16.5         17.1                                 18.4          19.1
9.    Approachway maintenance savings                                                   17.3         17.5                                 18.1          18.4
3.   Present value - benefit cost ratio
Interest rate                                                                    Present value (T1M million)                Benefit cost ratio
1                                                                                      1235                                   3.85
8                                                                                       387                                   1.92
10                                                                                       266                                   1.63
12                                                                                       173                                   1.41
15                                                                                        69                                   1.17
4.   Investment cost parametric analysis
(amount of investment costs corresponding to a given rate of return ) for best estimate and ± 15% variations in net benefit streams
Rate of return (7):                                                                   First year benefit (7.                  Corresponding construction costs (UK million)
- 15%       base       + 15%
13                                                                                      11.5                                     452          531        611
15                                                                                      13.2                                     394         463         533
17 (actual)                                                                             14.9                                     347         408         470
19                                                                                      16.8                                     309          363        417
21                                                                                      18.8                                     276          325        374
5.   Risk analysis                                                            -50        -40        - 30       - 20       -10        0                                           50
a)   Possible  variations of cost/benefits from best estimate (%)
b)   Probability (%) associated to each range of variation
-     Investment and recurrent costs                                                       5         10         35          35         10         5
-     On board shore handling operations                                                  10         20         20          20         20        10
-     Cargo losses savings                                                                 5         15         20          30         20        10
-     Ship waiting time                                             5          5           5         10          15         20         10        10         10         10
-     Approachway repairs and maintenance                           5          5          10         10          20         20         10        10          5           5
c)   Results of the risk analysis
Mean of the I.R.R. (from  I.R.R. probability distribution):    18.3%
Probability of a rate of return less than 15%                  :     8.0%
between 15 and 25%          :    90.0%
Source: Bank mission
September 1975



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
PORT AUTONOME OF NOUADHIBOU
Income Statement as of December 31 each year
('000 Ouguiyas)
___________________-- - Actuals--                -      ------------------ Forecasts -------------------------------------__
Prior to establishment of PAN          -----------------------------------  After establishment of PAN------------------------------------
1970          1971           1972       July I to          1974           1975          1976           1977           1978           1979          1980
Dec 31,1973         _                                                              
OPERATING REVENUE
Wharfage on
Fish, fresh (unloaded)                         1600          1500           1800       1776               1917           3240          3420           4590           5760           6840           7590
Fish, processed (loaded)                        -              -             -          471               1172           2300          2450           3400           4300           5150           5900
Oil in bulk (unloaded)                           71             61           208        211                345           1190          1330           1680            350             -
Oil (for ship's use)                               2/                                   235                465            340            370           730            890           1040           1070
Other cargo                                    1734-         264621         3214-'      904               3561           5040          6280           7080           6960           4560           5080
Transhipment                                       -             -              -         230                 183          1500           1800          2100           2400           2700           3000
Hire of Slipway                                   461            529           586        240                443            500            250            -              -              -
Dues on vessels                                   314            323           424         175               3057          3200           3660          5040           5390           5530           5950
Rents                                            1800          2449           3407       1827              14351          18000          18000         18000          18000          18000          18000
Miscellaneous (incl. supply of water,
electricity and ice)                            -               -             -         565               1145           1330           1510          2260           2930           3600           3940
Unallocated previous revenue                       -              -              _       2330
Additional revenue to be generated                 __                           _                             _              _             _           10             24000          250GO          31000
Total                                5980          7508           9639       8964              26639          36640         39070          54880          70980          75420         81530
OPERATING EXPENSES
Personnel                                        110          1100           1100        592               2936           3500           3850          4427           4870           5357           5893
Maintenance                                                                                 11                879          2000           2400          2880           3456           4147           4977
Fuel and stores                                  3020          4100           3200           3               486           1000           2200          2640           3168           3802           4,562
Water and electricityj"'                                                                   148                810          1000           1100           1210          1331           1464           1610
Miscellaneous                                      _             _              _         329                1239          1500           1650           1815          1996           2196           2416
Sub-total Cash outgoings             4120          5200           4300       1083               6350           9000         11200          12972          14821          16966         19458
Depreciation                                     5530           5530          5530       3769                7575          7485           7505         17759          27912          27918          27978
Amortization of intangible assets                                                                             -              -             -            1435           2870           2870           2870
Provision for doubtful debts                      -              -             -          200                 165           150            150            150           150            150            150
Total                                9650         10730           9830       5052              14090          16635         18855          32316          45753          47904         50456
Net Operating Revenue (Deficit)                 (3670)         (3222)         (191)      3912              12549          20005         20215          22564          25227          27516          31074
Interest revenue                                  -             -              -           44                 117          1870           3465          5170           6875           8690          10725
Other revenue                                     -             -              -         1096                -              276            276            276           276            276            276
Dividend payable to Government                                                                               -               -             -           15551-/        31101          31101          31101
Sub-total                             -             -              -         1140                117           2146          3741         (10105)        (23950)        (22135)       (20100)
Net Income (Deficit)                (3670)        (3222)          (191)      5052              12666          22151         23956          12459           1277           5381          10974
Working Ratio (M)                                  69             69            45         12                  24            24             29             24            21             23             24
Operating Ratio (%)                               161            143           102         56                  53            45             48            59             64             63             62
Average Net Value of fixed assets in use  125250             119715         114185    130780              124045         116707        109411         535069         950524         923109        884623
Turnover (Gross Op. Rev. as % of Net
Value of fixed assets in use)                     5              6             8          7                 21             31             36            10              7              8              9
Return on Av. net fixed assets in use(%)            -             -              -          3.0                10.1          17.1           18.5            6.94-         2.6            3.0            3.5
Times Dividend covered by Net Op. Rev.                                                                         -              -             -               1.45          0.81           0.88           1.00
1/ Adjusted for purposes of analysis
T/  Includes revenue on processed fish
3/ Half-year's dividend
4/  Represents average for two half-years
Source:  BCEOM, PAN and Bank Mission
September 1975



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
PORT AUTONOME OF NOUADHIBOU
Balance Sheet as of December 31 each year
('000 Ouguiyas)
--------- Actualsl/-----------           ------------------------- Forecasts  -----------------------------
June 30    Dec. 31
ASSETS                                                  1973        1973          1974          1975          1976          1977          1978          1979           1980
Fixed Assets
Gross value
Land                                            18000       18000         18000         18000         18000         144500       144500         144500        144500
Depreciable Assets                             112225      113509        113693        113893        114093         863973       864173         864973        865473
Less:  Accumulated depreciation                      -         3769         11344         18829         26334          44093         72005         99923        127901
Net Depreciable Assets                           112225      109740        102349         95064         87759         819880        792168        765050        737572
Net Fixed Assets in use                          130225      127740        120349        113064        105759         964380        936668        909550        882072
Work-in-Progress                                     -          -            -           106000        542180            -            -             -             -
Net Fixed Assets                                 130225      127740        120349        219064        647939         964380        936668        909550        882072
Current Assets
Cash at Bank and on hand                            1109       5831         20078         49900         81411         113057        144961        180345        221807
Receivables and payments in advance                  -         3966          3555          3300          3200            3000         3100          3200          3000
Inventories                                          -          -             122           122           122             125          130           140           150
Others                                               -            12            11           11             11             15           15            15             15
Total                                        1109        9809         23766         53333         84744         116197       148206        183700         224972
Less Current Liabilities
Payables                                              94        467           219           200           200             250          250           225           225
Provisions                                           -          200           365           515           665             615          765           915           865
Total                                          94         667           584           715           865            865         1015           1140          1090
Net Current Assets                                    1015       9142         23182         52618         83879          115332       147191        182560        223882
Intangible Assets                                                                                         16040           27265        24395         21525         18655
Investment in SAMMA                                    -          -            6017          6017          6017            6017         6017          6017          6017
Total Net Assets                           131240      136882        149548        277699        753875        1112994      1114271       1119652        1130626
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Equity Equivalent
Government                                       131240      131830        131830        237830        690050        1036710       1036710       1036710       1036710
Reserves and Retained Earnings                      _          5052         17718         39869         63825           76284        77561         82942         93916
Total                                      131240      136882        149548        277699        753875        1112994      1114271       1119652        1130626
Ratio of Current Assets to
Current Liabilities                                   11.8       14.7          40.7         74.6            98.0          134.3        146.0         161.1         206.4
Ratio of Liquid Assets to
Current Liabilities                                   11.8        14.7         40.5          74.4           97.8          134.2        145.9         161.0         206.2
L/ Adjusted for purposes of analysis
Source: BCEOM, PAN and Bank Mission
September 1975



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
PORT AUTONOME OF NOUADHIBOU
Source and Application of Funds as of December 31 each year
('000 Ouguiyas)
---- Actualsl/---           -------------------------- Forecasts------------------------------
July 1 to Dec. 31
1973          1974          1975          1976          1977          1978          1979           1980
Source of Funds
Operating Receipts                             8964         26639         36640          39070         54880         70980         75420         81530
Less:
Cash outgoings                                 1083          6350          9000         11200         12972          14821         16966         19458
Cash generation from operations                7881         20289         27640         27870         41908          56159         58454         62072
Interest receivable                              44           117          1870          3465           5170          6875          8690         10725
Government subvention (Revenue)                1096           -             -              -             -             -             -             -
Government subvention (Capital)                 590           -          106000        452580        346300            -             -             -
Other receipts                                   -            -             276            276           276           276           276           276
Net decrease in working capital                  -             42           236            100            43           _             -             -
Total Funds Available                      9611         20448        136022        484291        393697         63310          67420         73073
Application of Funds
Capital expenditure
Non-project                                  1284           184           200           200            200           200           800           500
Project                                        -            -          106000        452580        346300            -             -             -
Investment in SAMMA                              _           6017           -             -
Dividend on Government's equity                  -            -             -             -            15551-/       31101         31101         31101
Net increase in working capital                3605           -             -             -             -              105           135             10
Total Funds Applied                        4889          6201        106200        452780        362051         31406          32036         31611
Cash surplus for the year                      4722         14247         29822         31511         31646           31904        35384         41462
Cash balance at start of year                  1109          5831         20078         49900         81411          113057       144961        180345
Cash balance at end of year                    5831         20078         49900         81411        113057          144961       180345        221807
Working capital - Increase or decrease
Decrease in Payables                             -            248             19          -             -               -             25           -
Increase in Receivables                        3966           -              -            -             -               100          100           _
Increase in Inventories                          -            122            -            -                3              5           10            10
Increase in other assets                         12           -              -            -                4            _            _             _
Sub-total                             3978           370            19                           7            105          135             10
Less:
Increase in Payables                            373           -              -            -               50            -            -             -  3
Decrease in Receivables                                       411           255            100           2O0-           -            -             200-
Decrease in other assets                                         1           _            _               _             _            _             -
Sub-total                              373           412           255           100            50            -            -               _
Net Increase or (Decrease)                     3605            (42)         (236)         (100)          (43)           105          135             10
1/ Adjusted for purposes of analysis
2/ Half-year's dividend
3/ Set off against provision for doubtful debts                                                                                                            3
Source:  BCEOM, PAN and Bank Mission                                                                                                                      o
September 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
IIAURITANIA
NOUADIIIBOU PORT PROJECT
The Transport Sector
A.   Economic Setting
1.        Mauritania covers a total land area of about one million km2, of
which about two-thirds are largely barren, arid parts of the Sahara desert,
and the remainder mostly savanna grassland. The population of about 1.2
million, which has grown at 2% p.a. over the past decade, is concentrated
around Nouadhibou and Nouakchott, and along the Senegal river in the south.
Because of the combined effects of low population density, long distances
between towns and settlements, harsh climatic conditions, and poor road-making
soils, the provision and maintenance of transport infrastructure is expensive
and technically difficult, and the operation of vehicles is costly, arduous,
and often hazardous.
2.        About 90% of the active population are subsistence farmers and
nomadic herdsmen, yet agriculture, livestock-raising, and other traditional
activities generated in 1972 only about 31% of the Gross Domestic Product
(GDP). This traditional sector grew at about 4% p.a. between 1960-68, but
production fell between 1969-72 due to severe drought conditions.  The corres-
ponding annual increases in mining activities (generating about 36% of GDP)
during the periods abovementioned were 19% and 6%. Per capita GDP increased
from US$110 in 1962 to US$170 in 1972.  However, individual incomes of most
of the population have probably not increased over the decade, as growth was
limited to the modern sector, which employs only about 10% of the active
population, and whose activities are located 600-- 700 km from the center of
thle agricultural zone.
B,   The Transport System
3.        Transport infrastructure consists essentially of about 7,000 km of
roads (mainly earth tracks), about 740 km of privately-owned railways serving
the mining sector, a deep-water port and a wharf, two international airports,
and about 19 airstrips for domestic services; in addition, the Senegal River
provides for almost half the year about 600 km of navigable waterway between
Rosso and Bakel (Gourai). The system is generally adequate to serve the needs
of external transport. For internal services, roads presently constitute
practically the only mode; river transport was once significant, but has now
dwindled to a few small itinerant craft which provide infrequent services;
internal air transport has proved essential in helping alleviate the effects
of the recent drought, but is too costly to attract significant and continuous
demand.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Highways
4.        The road network totals some 7,000 km, of which only about 460 km
are paved and another 560 km are all-weather laterite roads; the remainder are
earth tracks.   The trunk system comprises three principal axes:  a northern
axis stretching 700 km from Rosso in the Senegal Valley to Atar in the north,
an east-west axis from Rosso to Nema, and a central axis Boghe-Aleg-Tidjikja.
Except for the first axis and some sections of the second, the roads have no
definite alignments, as vehicles drive cross-country choosing their own paths,
5.        Although the density of the network follows quite well the pattern
of population distribution and of economic activity, access to most areas of
the country is limited to little more than half of the year. Sandstorms in
the north and floods during the wet season in the south cause frequent traffic
interruptions which, because of poor maintenance organization, are unneces-
sarily prolonged.
6.        The traditional sector of the economy is still at the subsistence
level, and therefore does not generate much traffic. Most passenger traffic
occurs in the modern sector, ancl is largely restricted to the Rosso-Nouakchott-
Akjoujt road. Goods traffic, except that generated by the mining industry,
consists almost entirely of imports (basic foodstuffs and petroleum products),
most of which enter through Nouakchott or Rosso. Until the results of up-
coming agricultural programs start being felt, movement of agricultural produce
and local goods will continue to represent only about 10% of total traffic.
Railways
7.        The only railway in the country is owned and operated by Mines de
Fer de Mauritanie (MIFERMA), the iron-ore mining company located in the north.
Although traffic is largely confined to shipments of ore from deposits near
Zouerate to the port of Nouadhibou (amounting in 1972 to about 8.4 million
tons), small amounts of general merchandise (about 7,000 tons in 1972) and
limited passenger service, are carried on the back-haul. In order to allow
development of this general traffic, and to ensure better connections between
Nouadhibou and the rest of the country, the ongoing IDA Third Highway project
provides for improvement of the road linking the railway stop at Choum with
Atar, the trade center of the northwest.
River Transport
8.        Transport on the Senegal River was once an important mode for the
agriculturally productive southern region, with about five power crafts and
several barges owned and operated by a Senegalese firm, but there are now only
infrequent services by a few small boats. At the time when operations were
efficient, river transport was a useful complement to road transport along
the Rosso-Boghe-Kaedi corridor, and if revived, could still play, an impor-
tant role for carrying bulk low-cost commodities. This possibility is being
studied by the Organisation pour la mise en valeur du fleuve Senegal (OMVS) in
the context of an overall strategy to harness the Senegal River and develop
its valley.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Ports
9.        Details on port facilities and operations are provided in Annex 3.
Airways
10.       The air service network is sufficiently well developed to help over-
come the long distances over largely inhospitable regions, and to compensate
for the lack of surface transport capacity, especially to remote and seasonally
isolated areas. There are two international airports, at Nouadhibou and
Nouakchott, but only the former can handle long-range jet aircraft. There
are also 19 airstrips for domestic services which can accommodate DC-3 and
DC-4 type equipment. In spite of this internal air transport capacity, how-
ever, passenger demand has been limited, principally because the cost of air
fares still remains far beyond the means of the average local traveller. For
transport to remote areas, however, it is not inconceivable that on a total-
cost basis (i.e. infrastructure and operating costs), air transport for pas-
sengers and perishable goods, in combination with the use of off-road vehicles
for other goods, could be an economically cheaper alternative to the more con-
ventional road transport used under prevailing conditions.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MAURITANIA
NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Fisheries
A.   Fishing Grounds and Resources
Geographic and Oceanographic Conditions
1.        The Mauritanian continental shelf, from Cap Bojador to Cap Vert,
covers approximately 85,000 km2; its maximum width is about 130 km at the
latitude of Banc d'Arguin (200 20' N 170 30 W), immediately south of
Nouadhibou, but it narrows down toward the south. The coast of Mauritania
proper extends from Cap Blanc to the Senegal River, and is 670 km long.
Along this shore, trade winds from the northeast tend to blow surface waters
away from the coast. This results in upwelling which brings nutrient matters
from the sea bottom to the surface.  The presence of these nutrients and the
activation of photosynthesis by the intense sunlight favor the development of
marine life. Mauritanian waters are consequently rich in marine resources.
However, there are seasonal fluctuations as the area is influenced: (i) dur-
ing winter by the Canaries current flowing from the northwest; and (ii) from
July to September and it December by the inflow of tropical waters from the
South.
2.        The coast is desertic, mostly low and straight, and without shelter.
Sand drifts along the coastline make it difficult to establish ports; the only
existing shelter is the Bay du Levrier protected by the peninsula of Cap Blanc,
on the eastern shore of which the port of Nouadhibou has been built. Because
of this lack of ports, the international fleet of fishing vessels which ex-
ploits the resources of the Mauritanian continental shelf, is mostly based in
Las Palmas in the Canary Islands.
Resources
3.        The main fish species caught in coastal waters are gray mullet, vari-
ous species of croakers or corvinas (familia Sciaenidae) the principal of
wnich is Sciaena aquila, and the spotted sea bass (Morone punctata).
4.        The main fish demersal species caught by trawlers belong to the sea
bream family (familia Spaidae), but Cephalopod molluscs, including octopus,
cuttlefish and squid, are also abundant. The main pelagic species include
Sardinella eba, Sardinella aurita, and horse mackerel (Trachurus sp. and
Caranx sp.). Most of these resources are intensively exploited, total catch
being estimated at 0.5 million tons for demersal fish, and 1.0 million tons
for pelagic. The potential yield of sea bream stocks on the continental shelf
extending west off Senegal, Mauritania and Spanish Sahara is estimated at



ANNEX 2
Page 2
160,000 tons, about the 1972 catch in this area. Cuttlefish and squid poten-
tial yield is estimated at 65,000-100,000 tons, and catch in 1972 was 65,000
tons; 130,000 tons of octopus were taken in 1972, while the potential yield
was estimated at 150,000 tons. Stocks of Sardinella and horse mackerels are
very probably also fully exploited.
Territorial Waters
5.        In order to control the exploitation of the continental shelf extend-
ing off the Mauritanian coast, the Government in 1972 extended its territorial
waters to a limit of 55 km from the base line Cap Blanc-Cap Timiris, and south
Cap Timiris, 55 km from the low-water shore line.  As a result, territorial
waters include practically all the continental shelf within a 200 m. depth.
B.   Present Fishing Activities
Small Scale Fisheries
6.        The only purely Mauritanian fisheries activity is carried out by
200 fishermen belonging to the Imraguen tribe (500 persons) established in
islanrs north of Cap Timiris (Map 11098R). The Imraguen fish in shallow
waters, catching mainly gray mullet and corvina. Fishing gear are gill nets
30 m long, 1.5 m high, supported by poles held by fishermen for shutting in
fish schools in shallow water. Fishing seasons are from October to December
and in harch-April. Fish is salted. The roe of red mullet is processed
separately into a htighly valuable product called "poutargue" similar to
compact driJcd caviar.
7.        Total production by Imraguen fishermen is about 1,000 tons per year
with a value of possibly US$100,000; 40 percent of this value is derived from
"poutargue", which is exported.  Imraguen boats (canoes or small sailing boats)
call from time to time at Nouadhibou to get water and supplies.
African Canoes
8.        Senegalese, Ghanaian and even Dahomean fishermen also carry out
small-scale fishing.  They visit Mauritania seasonally with th4ir canoes, and
pru;ide thie fish-freezing and fish-drying industry with high quality fish
caught by angling. In 1973, about 100 canoes visited Nouadhibou; but they
are likely to be less numerous in 1974 since exchange restrictions might
hamper the transfer home of their benefits by foreign fishermen. The canoe
fleet landed an estimated 1,500 tons in 1973.
Mauricaniaui Fishing Corporation (SOMAP)
9.        In 1965, the Government of Mauritania decided to establish a mixed
corporation, the Societe Mauritanienne d'Armement a la Peche (SOMAP), to pur-
chase a fleet of fishing vessels which would supply the local industry with
fish. A fleet of six stern trawlers, two tra*ler-freezers, three purse-seiners



ANNEX 2
Page 3
and two refrigerated cargo vessels were built in France and the Netherlands at
a total cost, including ancillary equipment, and interest charges, of CFAF
2.5 billion (US$5.0 million equivalent), of which about CFAF  2.0 billion were
suppliers' credits and other loans. The company was run mainly by expatriates.
The inadequacy of ships and equipment, poor management, the company's weak
financial structure which imposed heavy interest charges, the lack of trained
local personnel and crews, the high costs of operation led to a failure, and
the company ceased to operate in 1969. After the sale of ships and a moratorium
on some of its debt, it left a debt of some CFAF 1.9 billion. This has been
paid off by the Government by drawing from the amounts collected as fishing
rights on foreign ships fishing in Mauritanian waters.
Spanish-Canarian Vessels
10.       Until 1972, the bulk of the fish processed by the plants established
in Nouadhibou was delivered by vessels owned and operated by fishermen from
the Canary Islands who contracted with fish plant owners. Catching fish for
drying was their main activity.
11.       More than 100 of these vessels still operated at Nouadhibou in 1973;
this number has now dropped to about 60, ranging from 5 GT to 140 GT. Four of
these vessels are trawlers, the others are purse-seiners. Depending on the
season, they catch corvinas, sea breams and other shallow water species, or
pelagic fish (mainly Sardinella eba). Shallow water species are delivered to
the fish-drying or freezing industries, and sardinella is for fish-meal plants.
12.       These vessels generalLy make daily trips, and unload their catches
either at the private pier of the SIGP (Societe Industrielle de Grande Peche)
drying plant, or at the Ramps located along the Jetty connecting the Commercial
Wharf to shore. They do not utilize the main Fishing Wharf.
13.       A Spanish-Canarian company also operates three purse-seiners belonging
to the Mauritanian Government. These have a Mauritanian crew, and one has a
Mauritanian skipper.
14.       The interests of processing companies have now shifted from drying
towards freezing and fish-meal processing (para. 27). As a consequence, the
number of contracted short-range Canarian vessels has been reduced. The pro-
cessing industry now relies mainly on off-shore trawlers which supply the
freezing plants all year round, and on large purse-seiners which supply the
fish-meal plants.
Lobstelr _Fishery
15.       The Mauritanian coast has been a traditional fishing ground for
French lobster boats. This resource, probably because of the development of
trawling, has now diminished. Ilowever, a few boats are still operating under
license in Mauritanian waters, Part of the catch is landed in Nouadhibou and
kept alive until it can be shipped by plane; 58.5 tons of lobster were ex-
ported by air in 1973,



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Japanese an(d Russian Trawler Fleets
16z.      Eighteen Japanese stern trawlers are permanently based in Nouadhibou;
they deliver all their catch to local freezing plants. These vessels range
from 100 to 290 GT; their trawling gear is specially rigged to catch octopus,
squid and cuttlefish which make up to 90% of their landings. Trips are of 5-6
days, the average catch per trip being 10-20 tons of fish; supplies needed are
12 tons ice and 12 tons diesel oil per trip; vessels operate about 225 days per
year. In addition, a 250 GT trawler is used as a training ship for Mauritanian
crews. Total annual landings by the Japanese fleet are estimated at 12,000 tons.
17.       Twelve USSR vessels also operate at Nouadhibou.  These are 20 year-
old side trawlers of 270 GT, using a standard trawl rig; 70% of catch is
octopus, squid and cuttlefish. Trips are an average of 4 days, stay in port
between trips being one day. Average catch by trip is 7-8 tons; supplies are
8-10 tons of ice per trip. To comply with the agreements passed with Mauritania,
the USSR should base 35 trawlers in Nouadhibou; however, because landing, supply
and fish processing facilities are already used at maximum capacity, the ori-
ginally planned arrival of 23 additional vessels had to be postponed.
Purse Seiners
18.       The purse-seining fleet which supplies fish-meal plants with pelagic
fish (mainly sardinella) is under Dutch and Norwegian flags. Its vessels
operate in conjunction with factory ships which remain outside Mauritanian
waters; part of the catch is landed at Nouadhibou either by the fishing ves-
sels or by refrigerated carriers. The amount to be landed is determined by
agreements signed with the Mauritanian Government. Fish is caught by 16
purse-seiners of 150 to 500 GT; carriers are vessels of 400 to 550 GT. In
1973, 41,700 tons of pelagic fish were landed in Nouadhibou by the Dutch fleet,
and the carriers, under Norwegian flag, landed 3,700 tons.
Deep-sea Fleet of Licensees
19.       The fishing grounds off the continental shelf extend over more than
2,800 km from the coast of Morocco to Cap Vert in Senegal, with seasonal
shifting of fish schools. Ports and shelters are in limited number. As a
consequence, vessels with a long operating range are necessary. Deep-sea
freezer trawlers are used for catching and freezing demersal fish (factory
trawlers), whereas pelagic fish is caught by vessels supported by factory
ships for fish processing. USSR and Japanese companies have accepted to
station trawlers in Nouadhibou on condition that freezer (factory) trawlers
would also be authorized to operate in Mauritanian waters without having to
land fish in Nouadhibou. Under these agreements, 15 large Russian factory
trawlers (2,000 GT) are fishing pelagic Sardinella and horse mackerel, and
14 Japanese deep sea trawlers, ranging from 7,000 GT to 2,000 GT, are trawl-
ing for cephalopods. Their annual catch is estimated at 80,000 tons.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
20.       Similarly, the Norwegian and Dutch purse-seiners, which land part
of their catch in Nouadhibou, have been fishing for their own factory ships.
The catch thus processed by the Norwegian factory ship amounted to 135,000
tons in 1973.
21.       Agreements with several other countries allow deep-sea fishing
enterprises to operate in Mauritanian waters without having to deliver any
fish in Nouadhibou. Thus, Greek companies can operate 26 freezer trawlers
with a total tonnage of 14,000 GT, and two Italian trawlers of 800 GT to 900
GT are operating at present in Mauritanian waters. About 20 Panamanian ves-
sels (Portuguese-owned) of 30 to 55 m LOA are also licensed for fishing in
Mauritanian waters. Other agreements with Kuwait, Algeria, Ghana, Italy,
etc. are pending or have been recently passed.
22.       Revenue from fishing rights paid by licencees increased to about
US$4.7 million equivalent in 1973.
C.   Fish Processing
Processing Plants
23        Existing processing plants, which include fish salting and drying,
freezing, canning, and fish-meal and oil production, are operated by six
different companies:
(i) SIGP (Societe Industrielle de Grande Peche) has been operating
a fish salting/drying plant since 1919. It processes fish from
small scale fishermen, from the Canarian vessels, and from the
Japanese vessels.
(ii)  EGA (Entreprise Generale Atlantique) has been operating a fish
drying plant since 1974 ,and a fish freezing plant since 1970.
Its sources of supply are canoes and Canarian vessels.
(iii) IMAPEC (Industries Mauritaniennes de Peche) was established in
1967 by a Spanish Government agency (Instituto Nacional de
Industria) under an agreement with the Mauritanian Government.
It consists of a fish-processing complex which includes salting/
drying plant, freezing plant, cold storages, and fish-meal and
oil plant. Raw material was first supplied by Spanish (Canarian)
vessels; this was however insufficient, and fish for freezing
is now supplied by the Russian and Japanese fleets. Raw material
for fish-meal is supplied by the Norwegian and Dutch purse-
seiners. IMAPEC also buys tuna for canning from vessels operat-
ing off the coast of tropical West Africa.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(iv)  COtAPIC (Compagnie Mauritanienne pour la Peche et le Commerce),
a mi*ed company, with a 5 percent Mauritanian Government parti-
cipation, has leased and has been operating since 1970, a fish-
meal plant (built in 1966) owned by the Government. COMAPIC is
now in difficulties over a foreign currency deal and might not
resume operations in 1974, in which case the Government will
have to appoint a new tenant.
(v) MAFCO (Mauritania Fishery Company), which associates several
Japanese fishing companies, has been operating since 1971 a
freezing and cold storage plant built in 1965 by a French-
Mauritanian enterprise (SURVIF). This plant provides ice to
the Japanese trawler fleet, and buys and processess cephalopods
(octopus, squid and cuttlefish) landed by these trawlers.
(vi)  SOFRIMA (Societe Frigorifigue Mauritanienne) is a joint
Mauritanian (53%) and Japanese (43%) enterprise, which operates
the Government-owned cold storage and freezing plant located on
the fishing quay. SOFRIMA does not trade in fish. It freezes
and stores fish delivered by fishing fleets, such as the Russian.
In addition, SOFRIMA supplies ice to all vessels except the
Japanese trawlers, which are supplied by MAFCO.
Processing Plants in Spanish Sahara
24.       Two small processing plants with a total maximum capacity of about
80 tons per day, located at Guera (10 km from Nouadhibou) in Spanish Sahara,
process fish landed in Nouadhibou by some of the Spanish vessels, and by the
three existing Mauritanian purse-seiners when these land pelagic fish. Total
amount of fish thus exported to Spanish Sahara was 2,800 tons in 1973.
Capital Invested in Processing Plants.
25.       The value of buildings and equipment of the various processing
enterprises is estimated as follows:
US$ million
SIGP                               0.4
LGA                                1.1
IMAPEC                             8.0
COMAPIC                            2.0
MAFCO                              3.5
SOFRIMA                            3.2



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Fish Processing Activities
26.       Salting/drying is the oldest processing activity in Nouadhibou.
About 11,000 tons of fish were processed in 1973 by SIGIP, EGA and IMAPEC
which produced and exported 3,000 tons of salted/dried fish (Table 9). Most
of it was exported to Congo and Zaire (about 2,000 tons each). Demand is
high for Mauritanian dried fish in Central Africa where the annual market
is at least 30,000 tons. Although the total theoretical capacity of areas
equipped for fish drying would be 16,000 tons, the three plants in Nouadhibou
have never produced more than 6,600 tons. The existing companies intend to
reduce their fish salting/drying capacity because of the increasing demand
for more profitable frozen fish.
27.       Freezing and cold storage plants have become the most important
activity. A total of t5,500 tons were frozen in 1973 by MAFCO, SOFRIMA,
IMAPEC and EGA; 10,700 tons of mollusks were sent to Japan and 3,600 tons
of fish were exported to Italy.
28.       The theoretical capacity of freezing plants would total about 170
tons per day, but their equipment is old and has been poorly maintained in
the past. As a consequence, the effective capacity is only about 100 tons
per day. Present landings by Japanese, Russian and Spanish vessels, which
deliver their catches to freezing plants, is estimated 60 to 65 tons per day
as an average. Allowing for catch fluctuations, this means that plants are
working close to full capacity.
29.       Total fish storage capacity can be estimated at about 4,000 tons.
It is used for frozen fish waiting to be exported and for frozen tuna to be
processed by IMAPEC's cannery.
Canning
30.       In 1973, IMAPEC canning plant processed 2,000 tons of fish, i.e.,
produced 800 tons of canned products. These were exported mainly to Germany
(370 tons), France (270 tons) and Italy (160 tons). IMAPEC intends to double
its present canning capacity.
Fishmeal
3i.       The plants depend for raw material (sardinella) on the Dutch and
Norwegian pelagic fleets; sardinella seiners shift to fishing grounds with
the occurrence of sardinella schools along the continental shelf, and deliver
their main catch to the factory ship to which they are attached. These fish-
ing fleets operate in the vicinity of Nouadhibou from September to early
December; during this period, they deliver part of their catches to Nouadhibou.
Fishmeal plants then work at a level close to full capacity during about 100
days in a year.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
32.       Revenue from taxes on exports of fish products rose from US$0.22
million equivalent in 1971 to US$0.43 million equivalent in 1973.
D.   Fisheries Development
Projected Short-Term Expansion of Fisheries Activities
33.       Under the existing arrangements with the Soviet Union, 23 additional
Russian trawlers are scheduled to be based at Nouadhibou as soon as available
facilities will permit. At present, ice production constitutes a major
bottleneck.
34.       Once IMAPEC has completed the construction of its new ice production
plant (theoretical capacity 100 tons/day), an additional 80 tons per day will
be available daily, which would just cover the requirements of the existing
fleet and of the 23 additional trawlers. New facilities are also planned for
freezing (100 t/day) and cold storage (3,500 tons of fish at -25°C), tuna
canning (20 t/day), and fish-meal (60 t/day).
Possibilities for General Fisheries Development
a)   Increase in landing of fresh fish by foreign vessels
35.       Because Mauritania territorial waters are at the center of a rich
fishing area which extends from the southwest coast of Morocco to Senegal,
Mauritania could induce foreign fishing vessels to land larger catches in
Naoudhibou without having to increase total fishing effort in national waters.
At present, the availability of berthing and vessel servicing facilities in
Nouadhibou is a limitation to this potential increase in landings.
36.       The proposed project, which will extend the existing 290 m long wharf
by another 300 m, would create favorable conditions for this increase. Provision
of a mere length of quay, however, will not be sufficient. It will be necessary
to provide also adequate equipment for fish landing (including mobile cranes for
food fish unloading and additional pumps to convey pelagic fish to fishmeal
factories) and for distribution of ice, fuel, water and other supplies to the
fishing fleet. The layout of this equipment needs to be carefully planned
(see Annex 3).
37.       Assuming that these facilities will be provided at the same time as
the Fishing Wharf is extended, the amount of food fish landed in Nouadhibou
could increase by about 50,000 tons,and the amount of fish for meal and oil
production could increase by about 100,000 tons.
b)   Landing of frozen fish
38.       Landing of fish for processing in Nouadhibou cannot be increased
indefinitely, as it is caught by trawlers which preserve their fish in ice,
and have to restrict the duration of their fishing trips to less than ten days.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Trawlers operating beyond the range of ice boats preserve their catch by
freezing it on board, which gives a better quality product. In the case of
valued species, such as cuttlefish, the selling price of products frozen on
board can be 30% more than for fish frozen ashore.
39.       Fishing vessels call at Nouadhibou in increasing numbers to trans-
ship their frozen catches to refrigerated carriers. At present, transshipment
is conducted at anchorage directly from trawler to carrier, and might take
considerable time, because small quantities are handled by each trawler.
Thus, cost and time would be saved if trawlers could deliver their catches
to cold storage plants ashore; carriers would then pick up large quantities
at a time from the cold plants. This new system of operations is starting
to develop: a fleet of ten Italian trawlers of about 200 GT is planned to
land its catch in Nouadhibou for periodical reshipment by carriers. The
first of these trawlers called at Nouadhibou in March 1974.
40.       The volume of operations involving landing of frozen fish, storage,
and reshipment, can be developed at Nouadhibou if adequate facilities are made
available. These would consist not only of landing quays and cold storage
rooms, but of all services required by modern fishing fleets, such as mainten-
ance and repair facilities for vessels, tax-free stores, amenities for crews,
etc. The adequate provision of all these services by well-managed enterprises
in Nouadhibou would bring considerable benefits to the Mauritanian economy.
41.       Demand for these services would develop in such a way that, in a
long-range perspective, the volume of frozen fish landed and stored in
Nouadhibou would greatly exceed that of iced fish landed for processing.
This new development could be the objective of a new investment project
which is included in the Bank Group lending program for 1978.
c)   Development of a Mauritanian Fishing Fleet
42.       The Government also intends to gradually develop a Mauritanian
modern fishing fleet which consists at present of three purse-seiners
operating with Spanish management. Agreements are being negotiated with other
countries (Ghana, Algeria, Kuwait) for obtaining new fishing vessels and the
technical assistance to operate and maintain them. Meanwhile, crews of future
vessels are being trained. A technical school located in Nouadhibou has a
fisheries section with about 30.students. Foreign vessels operating with
Mauritanian licenses to fish in territorial waters carry Mauritanian trainees,
and a Japanese trawler is used as a fisheries training vessel with 16
Mauritanian trainees.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MAURITAN IA
NOUAI)IIIBOU PORT PROJECT
Existing Port Facilities
A.   NOUADHIBOU
General
1.        Nouadhibou (formerly Port Etienne) is situated in the Levrier Bay,
one of the largest bays on the western coast of Africa, lying between the
long promontory of Cape Blanc and the main shore (Map 11098); the Bay is 45
km long in a north-south direction,and 35 km wide at the entrance. It has a
general depth of 10 to 12 m, but is studded with numerous shoals. Nouadhibou
is located on the western shore of the Bay, thus facing east toward the main
shore. The port is built in Cansado Bay, a small bight (6.5 km wide) inside
Levrier Bay.
2.        Levrier Bay is in the trade wind zone.  Winds are fresh (25 km/h)
and persistent (97% of the time), and may reach 60 km/h between March and
October; they blow generally from northeast to northwest. Occasionally
during September (the rainy season further south) strong gusts of wind blow
from the east and the south-east; however, it never rains.
3.        LevrLer Bay is free from ocean swell wave activity, but choppy sea
conditions are present nost of the time because of the fresh prevailing northerly
trade winds. These conditions make it impossible for small fishing craft to
use the fishing berths during the period from November to January. Currents
are feeble in Cansado Bay, and the spring tidal range is only 1.80 meters.
There is no history of siltation in the area.
4.        Access to the port of Nouadhibou is from the south via a 22 km
buoyed natural channel. Pilots are not compulsory, but can be requested
through MIFERMA who will arrange a pilot. This service is only available
in daylight hours although the channel is lit.
5.        Nouadhibou has been used by Spanish, and later French fishing ves-
sels for about 50 years. Fish were landed at small private piers belonging to
local fish-drying plants; a number of these piers are still in service outside
the existing port area. In 1957, the cormnercial berths and approachway were
built to accommodate ocean-going vessels, as well as a lighterage wharf to
land equipment for MIFERMA. In 1968, FED financed the construction of the
Fishing Berths.
6.        Port facilities are as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(a)  Commercial Berths:  This consists of a double-sided island berth
(80 m x 22 m) connected to the shore with a piled approachway
with a maximum permissible axle load of 10 t. The outer berth
has a least depth of 8 m and can accommodate ocean-going vessels
up to 140 m length; the inner berth with a least depth of 6 m
is used for coastal vessels up to 70 m long. Refined petroleum
products and LPG are discharged at outer berth through pipelines
laid to a tank farm ashore. Bunkers and water are available.
Permanent mooring dolphins are provided.
(b) Ramps: Three 20 m long ramps, dredged to 3-4 m and built
perpendicular to the approachway which links the Commercial
berth to the shore, accommodate small fishing craft, port
service boats, and pleasure craft.
(c) Fishing Berths: This is a 290 m long piled bulkhead, dredged
to 6 m LWST. Water ancl bunkers are available. The apron is
narrow and difficult to operate because of the proximity of a
freezing plant (para. 8).
(d) Lighterage Wharf: This consists of an area of reclaimed land
lying to the south of the commercial berths and fronted by a
sheet piled bulkhead with a least depth of 1.5 meters along-
side. Heavy lift cargo is lightered to this wharf because of
the limited carrying capacity of the approachway to the com-
mercial berths.
Commercial Port Ancillary Facilities
7.        Back-u  facilities consist of some 21,800 m2 of open storage areas
and some 6,000 m- of transit sheds and warehouse-. Since the commercial
berths are remote and connected by a narrow approachway some 500 m distant,
cargo-handling is slow and tedious. The equipment includes two 20 and 25 t
cranes for heavy lifts, 16 mobile cranes, 2 tractors, and 12 trailers for
general cargo operations. One tug and two flat-lighters are used for heavy
lift lighterage. There are no fixed quay cranes. All equipment is owned by
SAMMA.
Fishing Port Ancillary Facilities
8.        A freezing plant belonging to a state-owned company (SOFRIMA) is
established on the quay; the plant includes a large unused fish market which
restricts the area of the apron. UTnloading of fish for processing to fish-
meal is handled by two hydraulic pumps (20 and 40 t/hour), with a pipeline
to local factories. They are located at the northern end of the Wharf, near
a fixed ice-loading installation. Ice is also distributed by mobile flake
ice crushers belonging to local fish-processing plants. Water and bunkers are
available. The planning of the Wharf and its ancillary facilities has been
rather poor; this somewhat restricts operations, which are described in detail
in Annex 3.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Ship-Repair Facilities
9.        PAN owns a marine slipway with a hauling capacity of 250 tons.
Since it is established north of the Fishing Wharf in an area which will be
used for the proposed extension, it will have to be relocated, probably south-
ward of the Lighterage Wharf. There are no workshops, and thus vessels needing
repair must either sail to other ports, or effect temporary repairs using their
own crews and facilities on board.
B.   POINT CENTRAL
10.       Point Central is MIFERMA's iron ore loading facility.  It is situ-
ated on the western shore of the Levrier Bay, 15 km southward of Nouadhibou.
Access is from the south through a channel dredged to 13.5 m LWST, permitting
ore carriers of up to about 120,000 t to leave the port at high tide. The
facility is an L-shaped pier with two berths, 460 and 300 m long respectively,
for ore carriers and oil tankers. Ore is loaded by conveyors at rates up to
of 6,000 tons per hour. Operations are conducted day and night, and 9 to 12
million tons of ore are exported annually.
C.   NOUAKCROTT
11.       Nouakchott Wharf is situated 10 km from the capital city of Nouakchott.
The coast is sandy and low, and offers no protection; depths are 10 to 18 m,
4 to 5 km from shore. Winds blow from the north from October to June, and
sandwinds are frequently experienced. Gales from the southwest are heavy,
and swell develops rapidly.
12.       Nouakchott Wharf, a steel pile pier, is built perpendicular to the
coastline.  It has an access jetty 330 m long and a pier head 120 x 20 m.
Ships remain at anchorage 2 to 4 km off the coast; since there is no protec-
tion, they depart in the event of bad weather. All operations are conducted
by lighterage: lighters are loaded and unloaded by fixed cranes on the pier.
Ancillary facilities (including stacking yards, transit sheds, and a submarine
pipeline for tankers) are owned by the Port. In 1973, dry cargo traffic
amounted to 153,000 t, consisting mainly of grain imports (68,000 t), sugar
(23,000 t), general cargo (26,000 t), and copper exports (29,000 t).



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MAURITANIA
NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Fishing Port Operations
A.   Fleet Serviced
1.        The fleet presently using Nouadhibou Port for landing catches and
for servicing, is composed of:
(i)  4 Spanish-Canarian trawlers (maximum GT 135 t);
(ii) 56 Spanish-Canarian and 3 Mauritanian purse-
seiners (maximum GT 150 t);
(iii) 19 Japanese trawlers (GT from 100 to 300 t); and
(iv) 12 Russian trawlers (GT 360 t).
(See Annex 2, paras. 11-17).
2.        In addition, two fish transport vessels and 25 purse-seiners
from the Dutch and Norwegian fleets land part of their catches for fishmeal
production during a peak 3-month season from September to early December.
B.   Berthing
3.        Berthing and landing facilities are described in Annex 1.  They
consist of three Ramps and the main Fishing Wharf; in addition, small private
piers belonging to salting/drying plants are used for landing the catches of
small under 20 t GT fishing vessels.
4.        The Ramps are used by vessels of under 150 t GT; these include the
Spanish-Canarian -and Mauritanian seiners which call every evening to land
their daily catch.  This fleet once consisted of more than 150 vessels, but
has now decreased to about 60, of which only 27 are over 20 t GT.  As a con-
sequence, the Ramps which were congested in the past, are now adequate.
5.        The Fishing Wharf is permanently used by the Japanese and Russian
trawlers which call every four to six days.  During the pelagic fish season,
purse-seiners and fish carriers compete with the trawlers for berthing.
C.   Fish Unloading
6.        There are no fixed cranes nor derricks to unload fish.  At the
Ramps, trawlers and purse-seiners use their own derricks and unload fish
directly into trucks. At the Fishing Wharf, trawlers using their own gear
unload 12 kg boxes on the quay; boxes are then palletized and carried to the



ANNEX 4
Page 2
processing plant by fork-lift trucks. Rate of unloading is 3/4 ton/hour,
wlhich is low.  Pelagic fish is pumped directly from the holds of fishing
vessels to the processing plants. There are two pumps, 20 t and 40 t/hour in
capacity.
D.   Ice Distribution, Water, Fuel, and Power
7.        Ice is distributed by two fish processing plants, Societe des
Frigorigiques de Mauritanie (SOFRIMA) and Mauritania Fishing Company (MAFCO).
SOFRIMA's production of 35 tons/day is distributed by an overhead conveyor/
distributor; MAFCO's production of 49 tons/day is distributed at three 2-ton
mobile tanks with belt conveyors. Thus, ice can be distributed at three
berths simultaneously; at each berth, the rate of distribution is about
4 t/hour, which is slow, and is one of the main bottlenecks preventing
efficient quay use.
8.        Water distribution is at the rate of 8 t/hour.  Water supply in
Nouadhibou is limited at present to 3,000 m3/day. This is sufficient to meet
present needs, but does not allow for large industrial expansion. A survey of
the phreatic waterlayer which supplies Nouadhibou is being made to determine
whether a large tonnage can be pumped.
9.        Diesel oil is at present distributed at the rate of 40 m3/hour.
Total requirement for the present fleet is estimated at 2,500 tons/month.
Existing storage is for 3,400 tons.
10.       There is no provision for supplying power to fishing vessels; there-
fore, vessels have to keep an engine running throughout their stay.
E.   Pattern of Operations and Quay Use
(i) Trawlers
11.       Trawlers generally sail at night from the fishing grounds, and begin
operations in port during the morning (between 6 to 8 a.m.). The cycle of
operations includes successively fish landing (4 or 5 hours), fishhold cleaning
and sanitizing (1 hour), bunkering fuel and water (1-1/2 hours for water and
112 hour for fuel), and loading ice (3 to 4 hours). The total cycle requires
nine or ten hours for a trawler provided it does not wait for ice; however,
it requires at least 13 hours for the next vessel to take ice, and 17 hours in
case of a USSR trawler coming third in line at the SOFRIMA supply berth.  Under
these conditions, only one cycle can be completed in a day's work, and each
berth can receive only one vessel per day for unloading.
12.       Every day, there are at least five or six trawlers alongside the
fishing quay. Two of the Japanese trawlers and the 12 Russian ones have an
overall length (OAL) of 40 m, and require 45 m for berth. Other Japanese
trawlers are about 30 m OAL and require 35 m for berth. These trawlers re-
main all day at the quay. They occupy in total 200 or 240 m of quay practic-
ally every alternate day, leaving 60-100 m to other vessels.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
13.       I'resent patterns of quay use involve a waste of berth facilities.
A rearrangement of activities is needed so tihat a trawler can complete its
cycle of unloading and supplying in one half day, allowing each landing berth
to be used by two trawlers every day. This would be possible if the unloading
time of fish were shortened, and if ice distribution facilities were provided
to deliver 20 tons per hour. Under these conditions, the pattern would be:
unloading of 15 tons       - 3 hours        )
cleaning fish holds)                        ) - at the berthing quay
fueling            )       - 1-1/2 hours   )
receiving water    )
receiving ice              - 3/4 hour         - at the ice distribu-
tion berth
Vessels would be moved alongside the Wharf on a double line. Vessels ready
to sail or waiting their turn for supply would occupy the outside line. Ves-
sels in operation would occupy the inside line and stay at the berthing quay
not more than 4-1/2 hours.
(ii) Pelagic Seiners and Fish Carriers
14.       Seiners and fish carriers come to Nouadhibou only to deliver their
catches to the fishmeal processing plants; they do not load ice; water and
fuel are supplied during unloading of fish. In 1973, out of a total of 39,000
t pelagic fish, 27,000 t were delivered during the peak season from September
to early December; carriers alone landed 25% of total. Unloading operations
can start at any time of the day; duration of call, which depends on tonnage
to be landed, is eight hours average for carriers and two hours for seiners.
15.       Fish carriers occupy daily, during eight hours on average, a 50 m
berth in front of the fish pump. During the peak season, they have priority
at this berth because their cargo is not refrigerated and must be processed
immediately. During the slack season, this berth is occupied by trawlers
waiting their turn to use the nearby ice distribution conveyor.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MAURITANIIA
NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Nouadhibou Port Legislation
A.   Past Situation
1.        Prior to July/August 1973, the Port of Nouadhibou was a department
of the local agency of the Ministry of Equipment and Public Works. The local
Director of Public Works acted as Port Director; only the Harbor Master, a
French technical assistant, was specialized in port matters; port budget was
included in the national budget; revenues accrued to the Government. (Details
of statistics on port finances are given in Table 18).
B.   Present Legislation
2.        On April 24, 1973, the Government issued Decree 73-107 establishing
the Port Autonome de Nouadhibou. The Decree refers to the Public Authorities
and Corporations Act (67-122) of July 18, 1967, and follows closely the pattern
of Decree 68-232 of July 15, 1968, establishing Etablissement Maritime de
Nouakchott (EFN), the statutory body for operating the Wharf at Nouakchott.
3.        PAN was established to manage, maintain, operate, renew, improve, and
extend all port facilities at Nouadhibou. Shorehandling could be conducted
inside the port area only with PAN's staff and equipment. In addition to the
port area placed under PAN's jurisdiction, all construction within a wider
area adjacent to the port's limits requires PAN's authiorization.
4.        The Board of PAN has seven Government representatives (from the
Ministries of Equipment, Transport, Planning, Industry, Finance, Commerce,
and the local Governor); five representatives of port users (shipping lines,
fishiing companies, forwarding agents, Chamber of Comierce, fish-processing
industry); and one representative of the labor union. In addition, the Board
could call to meetings any qualified person as a non-voting member. All
members are appointed for three years by the Minister of Equipment, who also
appoints the Chairman (presently the Secretary-General of the Ministry).
PAN's legislation sets out the Board's powers in general terms; specific
powers are also provided, but the enumeration is not limitative; the Board
has all the powers necessary to enable PAN to fulfill its purposes.
5.        A Consultative _Committee of nine Board members is set up "to control
the good functioning of current operations within a framework established by
the Board."
6.        The Director is PAN's chief executive.  lie is appointed by the
Minister of Finance upon proposal of the Minister of Equipment.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
7.        Thie Treasurer (Agent Comptable) is appointed by the Minister of
Finance and is responsible to the Supreme Court (Audit Section), an arrange-
ment which is standard in most French-speaking countries of West Africa.
8.        Accounting is in principle set up on commercial lines.  There is
one operating and one capital budget. Surplus accrues to a Reserve Fund to
finance port extensions. Audit is performed ex post facto by the Financial
Controller, who is an agent of the Minister of Finance.
C.   Assessment of Present Lepslation
9.        As noted above (para. 2), the existing legislation closely follows
thie statutes of Etablissement Maritime de Nouakchott (EMNT). However, condi-
tions in Nouadhibou are different from those prevailing in Nouakchott; also,
the present statutes are incomplebte on many points, or do not conform to the
latest development in port legislation. If the port is to function adequately,
thie following improvements are required:
(i)   the Board's powers over the Port Director should be strengthened;
(ii)   the Port Director should have coordinating powers over the
Government agencies operating in the port;
(iii) Budgetary and reporting procedures should be improved;
(iv)   financial and investment policies and objectives should be
clearly defined; and
(v)   A Renewal and Expansion Fund should be created.
D.   Changes Proposed in. Legislation
General
10.       Changes proposed were aimed at improving the present legislation in
light of the Association's experience in other countries. The changes were
in line with the tradition of administrative law prevailing in Mauritania,
and with existing basic law of the land.
11.       Specific changes and additions were mainly:
Organization
(i) The Board should be consulted by Government Departments
(Police, Health, Customs, etc.) on matters of interest to
the Port of Nouadhibou.
(ii) The Director should have coordinating powers within the
port area over the actions of Government Departments partici-
pating in port operations.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Position of the Director
(i) The Director should prepare a quarterly report on operations
and finance, which should be presented to the Board through
its Chairman.
(ii) The Director should report immediately to the Chairman any
drawing from the Reserve Fund; such drawing should be
approved by the Board.
(iii)  The Director should submit the budget to the Board before
October 15 of each year. Also, he should submit accounts,
including balance sheet, etc., for the past year before
March 31 of each year.
Finance
(i)   The Board should approve the budget before November 15 of
each year: it should approve the accounts, including balance
sheet, etc., for the past year before April 30 of each year.
(ii) PAN's financial policy should be clearly defined: annual
budget to be balanced without need for a subvention to cover
operating expenses and debt and interest charges or dividends;
rate of return to be obtained; self-financing by PAN of part
of its development; Government participation in PAN's equity.
Tariffs should be cost-based.
(iii)  Two Funds should be established:  A Reserve Fund for unexpected
expenses and temporary shortage of current revenue; and a
Renewal and Expansion Fund.
(iv)  Duties of the external auditor should be extended to management
audit.
Planning
(i)   All development programs and extension projects should be
supported by an economic justification and a financing plan
before they are submitted by the Director to the Board, and
by the Board to the Government.
12.   An amended Decree 75035 was issued on February 8, 1975.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Plan of Action
Introduction
1.        The Government of Mauritania wants to build up a sound port adminis-
tration at Nouadhibou. Its policy is that PAN should: (a) provide the best
service to traffic at the lowest economic cost to the country; (b) control
the use of port facilities in cooperation with users, without hampering their
day-to-day operations, and without developing unnecessary bureaucracy; and
(c) maintain its financial viability, and possibly pay a dividend to the
Government. An understanding has been reached on this policy.
2.        The Government intends to use the services of Advisors/Technical
Assistants (Advisors) to help improve port administration and organization,
train personnel, draft staff manuals and port regulations, analyze operations,
and issue recommendations for improvements. The Government also intends to
implement the consultants' recommendations, agreed by the Government and
Association, particularly with a view to improving port operations for users.
3.        Under the headings below are enumerated a number of objectives in
the fields of staffing, organization, operations, and finance, which the
Government intends to achieve within the time-limits specified. Both the
substance and the dates constitute the objectives.
Organization and Operations
4.        By January 1, 1976, PAN will engage Advisors acceptable to, and
subject to terms of reference agreed with the Association, who will:
(a)  recommend to PAN's Board the steps necessary to improve
the present organizational and administrative structure
to enable it to fulfill its statutory responsibilities
and objectives;
(b) recommend to PAN improvements in the quality and productivity
of commercial and port operations,and assist PAN in issuing
manuals and drafting port regulations;
(c) advise PAN and the fishing industry established at the port
on berthing and servicing facilities needed to meet the needs
of the various fleets;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(d)  train PAN's personnel in management, administration, and
control of operations;
(e) advise Government and PAN on finalization of the Port
Master Plan; and
(f) assist the Port Director in implementing the measures
in items (a) to (c) above.
5.        By April 1, 1977, on the basis of the studies and recommendations
of Advisors, PAN will issue port user regulations which would include general
conditions for granting licenses and concessions. PAN will issue licenses
stipulating, inter alia, (i) the type and quantity of equipment to be used
for port operations; (ii) the amount of fees to be paid to PAN; (iii) produc-
tivity levels to be achieved; and (iv) penalties to be enforced in case these
productivity levels are not achieved by the dates specified.
6.        By July 1, 1977, PAN will implement the Advisors' recommendations,
and by October 1, 1977, will evaluate the results achieved.
7.        By October 1, 1977, productivity of fishing port operations,
including loading of frozen fish, will be increased by at least 30% in
relation to the average productivity during the last quarter of 1974.
Staffing
8.        By September 1, 1976, the Government will set up an overall man-
power plan for the port and maritime sector. The plan will include:
(a) determination of staffing needs; (b) job descriptions; (c) training
programs; and (d) procedures for transfer of maritime personnel from one
Government Department or agency to another. Review of PAN staffing resources
and needs will be made with the assistance of the Advisors referred to in
para. 2 above, and a study of manpower resources and requirements, in parti-
cular in the fishing and maritime sectors, will be made in collaboration
with the manpower specialist provided under the Education Project (Credit
459-MAU).
9.        By November 1, 1976, the Government will appoint a full-time Port
Director for the Port of Nouadhibou, after providing this executive with
adequate training for the post.
Customs
10.       By July 1, 1976, the Government will appoint a committee to review
the existing customs regulations and procedures and their enforcement, with
the participation of interested Government agencies and users, in order to
attract traffic to Nouadhibou through improved customs services. The Govern-
ment will consult with the Association before December 1, 1976 on the conclu-
sions and recommendations of the committee.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Ship-Repair Facility Studies
11.       The Government will take the necessary steps to obtain assistance
of an experienced ship-repair firm for drafting terms of reference for market
and engineering studies. By June 1, 1976, the Government will employ experts
acceptable to the Association to carry out the studies; the experts will be
recruited under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
12.       By December 1, 1976, the Government and PAN will consult with the
Association on conclusion of the market study, and exchange views on action
required to carry out the engineering studies.
Finance
13.       By January 1, 1976, PAN will engage Advisors acceptable to, and
subject to terms of reference agreed with the Association. The purposes of
the Advisors' services will be:
(a) to formulate a clear statement of PAN's financial objectives
so that it can attain a satisfactory balance between profit-
ability to cover its financial obligations (including those
under the Credit Agreement with IDA) and future growth require-
ments on the one hand, and its position as a public service
entity on the other;
(b) to reorganize PAN's accounting system on proper commercial
lines so that accounts will accurately reflect financial
results, and costs of principal services can be readily
determined;
(c) to introduce within PAN a system of management accounting;
(d) to undertake cost studies and recommend a cost-based
tariff system;
(e) to provide suitable training to PAN's accountant and his
staff, and to prepare a comprehensive budget and accounts
manual; and
(f) to organize and introduce an adequate system of internal
audit.
14.       By July 1, 1977, PAN in consultation with the Association will
implement the Advisors' recommendations, and by October 1, 1977, evaluate
the results achieved.



Attachment to
ANNEX 6
Page 1
MAURITANIA
NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Agreed terms of reference for consultants on management, port operations and
accounting
I.   Introduction
1.        The Mauritanian government recently established the Nouadhibou auto-
nomous port authority (PAN), an agency responsible for management and develop-
ment of the port of Nouadhibou.
2.        The Port of Nouadhibou comprises a commercial and a fishing port.
Traffic through the port consists mainly of general cargo (108,000 tons per
year), imports of crude petroleum products (21,000 tons per year), unloading
of fish (80,000 tons per year) and exports of frozen fish, fishmeal and fish
oil (34,000 tons per year). Although in absolute terms the volume of traffic
may seem quite small, the operations are complicated because of the wide
variety of activities involved.
3.        Port operations are at present the concern of a number of different
companies. One deals with lighterage, handling and storage. The fish-
processing firms handle the unloading of fish and the supply of ice. Export
of fish products is the responsibility of the fish-processing firms and an
independent handling enterprise. PAN is responsible for coordinating all
these operations. A project for the expansion of the port installations for
both fishing and cargo vessels is under study. It would be financed by sev-
eral multilateral and bilateral agencies: the International Development
Association, the Kuwait Fund, and the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique.
4.        In view of PAN's development prospects, it is important that:
(i) its staff be increased in number and their professional com-
petence considerably improved;
(ii) the procedures governing its operation, organization, and
administration be made more effective;
(iii) its accounting and management systems be improved.
5.        With this in view, the Government has decided to recruit a maximum
of three or four experts in the administration and organization of ports in
general and of fishing ports in particular, and in accounting. These experts
will be recruited from personnel belonging to or seconded to a bureau or firm
with the necessary experience in port management and also with international
experience in the planning and operation of fishing ports, the provision of
technical assistance and the installation of port facilities.



Attachment to
ANNEX 6
Page 2
II. Oblectives
6.        The experts' task will cover both the planning and execution of
measures in the following spheres:
(i) Organization: to recommend to the competent authorities all the
measures they consider necessary for the improvement of PAN's
internal organization, to enable it to carry out its statutory
responsibilities and objectives.
(ii) Finance: to assist PAN in improving its accounting system and
its financial operations, including a study of tariffs and their
structure.
(iii) Operation: to advise the government on port operations with the
aim of ensuring the highest possible productivity of both fishing
and commercial port operations and providing for port security.
(iv) Planning of port installations (superstructures): to advise the
Government on planning and construction of suitable port instal-
lations to meet the needs of the fishing fleet and to ensure
the best possible utilization of these installations.
(v) The experts will also assist the Government and PAN in the
execution of the various measures they recommend.
For the planning aspects of their task, the experts will report directly to
PAN, to the various competent authorities other than PAN, and to IDA. With
regard to execution, they will deal principally with the Director of PAN, to
whom they will be directly responsible.
III. Description of Work
A.   General Observations
7.        The experts will need to familiarize themselves with the constitu-
tion and legislation of Mauritania, and to inform themselves of the loan and
credit agreements concluded between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania and
IDA and other lenders concerned in the project.
8.        In determining PAN's needs in terms of personnel, equipment, proce-
dures, etc., the consultants shall take into account the limited financial re-
sources of Mauritania and avoid involving PAN in any unnecessary administra-
tive expense.
9.        The experts shall acquaint themselves with all aspects of the devel-
opment and operation of the port of Nouadhibou, and with the responsibilities
of the various agencies concerned in management and operation of the port.



Attachment to
ANNEX 6
Page 3
1l).     'Ilic experts slhall consult the individuals and departments concerned
as often as may be necessary to obtain the information and opinions they need
for the performance of their task; the Government will facilitate all necessary
contacts.
B.   Administration and organization
11.       The expert in administration and organization shall begin by anal-
yzing all the available data regarding the organization, responsibilities and
goals of PAN. Thereafter, he shall:
(a) prepare an organizational manual and an organization chart
setting out the objectives and main lines of responsibility
of PAN, and assist in setting up the new administrative struc-
ture; and
(b) establish a system of job classifications and descriptions,
setting out the duties and responsibilities of each position
and service, together with the minimum qualifications required.
12.       He will also be responsible for defining the necessary qualifications,
experience and background of PAN personnel. In particular, he shall:
(a) define the procedures and criteria for selection of qualified
personnel;
(b) consider to what extent the present personnel meet the require-
ments and recommend any necessary corrective measures;
(c) identify training requirements and organize vocational training
programs, either on or off the job, for personnel in all depart-
ments or operational sectors of PAN; and
(d) undertake a study of present policies and practices in the areas
of recruitment, performance and progress evaluation, promotion,
discipline, salary scales, grades, etc. and make any recommenda-
tions that he may consider necessary.
C.   Finance and accounting
13.       The finance and accounting expert shall:
(a)  set up a financial planning system that will enable PAN to meet
the financial goals assigned to it;
(b) improve the accounting system in line with appropriate commercial
practices, so that, in particular, the cost of the various serv-
ices rendered by the port can be determined;
(c) review the present budgetary control system;



Attachment to
ANNEX 6
Page 4
(d) review the present tariff structure, to ensure that while
tariffs are based on the cost of the services rendered, they
also take account of the need for Nouadhibou to be competitive
with neighboring ports;
(e) prepare detailed manuals setting out accounting and budgeting
methods;
(f) review the internal auditing system; and
(g) review the statements of account and the statistical data showing
the volume of traffic, ships' operations, and waiting time at
anchor.
D.   Port Operations
14.       The port operations expert shall:
(a) propose methods of improving the utilization of port installa-
tions with a view to the efficient and economic operation of
the port;
(b) prepare a port operations manual laying down the conditions
of use of the port services, the rules governing priority of
access to the wharfs, and productivity standards to be met by
the handling and lighterage companies operating in the commer-
cial and fishing ports; and
(c) draw up a preventive maintenance program.
15.       With regard to the operations and installations of the fishing port,
he shall:
(a) determine the present availability of water and electric power,
and the present and future needs of the fishing fleet and of the
processing plants;
(b) analyze the operations of. the fishing fleet and the fishing
industry, and define, inter alia: (i) the nature of the
operations of each group of fishing vessels; (ii) the various
operations involved in unloading fish; (iii) the methods of
handling fish products in the storage sheds (both receiving
and shipping out); (iv) the operation and output of the water,
fuel oil, and ice distribution installations;
(c) assess the present and future needs of the fishing fleet and
the processing plants in terms of equipment and installations
necessary for unloading of vessels, supply and distribution
of ice, water, fuel and other ships' supplies;



Attachment to
ANNEX 6
Page 5
(d) determine the optimal siting of installations and equipment
for the most efficient use of wharves and anchorages;
(e) draw up a plan of expansion of the port installations in the
light of the expected expansion of the various fleets, the
fish processing plants and cold storage facilities; and
(f) lay down procedures for cooperation between PAN, other public
services operating within the port and private users (shipping
fleets and industry).
E.   Timetable of services to be performed by the experts
16.       The experts shall prepare and submit the following reports within the
time limits specified below:
(a) within 4 months 1/ from the starting date of their mission, a
preliminary report containing: (i) their preliminary conclu-
sions or proposals regarding the nature of their mission,
(ii) a first list of recommendations, and plans for their
implementation;
(b) every three months from the date of submission of the prelim-
inary report, progress reports 2/ describing the work accom-
plished during the previous three months, and giving the plan
of work for the next period, a forecast of progress in the im-
plementation of the approved recommendations, a list of pro-
posals, plans, programs and recommendations not yet approved,
and a summary of the results achieved so far, together with a
list showing the dates of arrival and departure and the number
of days' work of each of the experts;
(c)  a final report within 24 months (or on any other date agreed
between the Government and IDA) summing up the work accomplished,
the consultants' conclusions and recommendations, the conditions
necessary for implementation of the approved recommendations,
together with a list of recommendations awaiting approval or
implementation, and a list of all the manuals prepared and
brought into use.
The reports mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (c) above should include a very
brief first section summarizing the consultants' main conclusions, proposals,
plans, programs and recommendations, and indicating to what extent the approved
recommendations have been put into effect. All the reports and all published
working documents and manuals shall be in French.
1/   Number of copies and distribution to be decided later.
2/   The period of three months between progress reports is merely indicative;
the actual intervals will be agreed later with IDA.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MAURITANIA
NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Principal Tariffs at the Port of Nouadhibou
I.   Tariffs on merchandise and supplies
(approved by PAN's Board with effect from August 18, 1973)
Nature of charge                     Unit of charge        Rate in UM
Miscellaneous cargo                             Ton                  40
Fish (unloaded)                                  "                  30
Fish (loaded)                                    "                   50
Oil (unloaded)                                   "                  35*
Oil (for ship's use)
- for trawlers discharging
at Nouadhibou                            "                  10
- for other vessels                         "                  50
Supply of water to vessels                       "                  50
Supply of ice
- to trawlers discharging
at Nouadhibou                           "                   10
- to other vessels                          "                  20
Transhipment at quay (loading)                   "                   50
Transhipment in roadstead                                           30
Warehousing                           (per day, per sq. meter)        4
* From September 26, 1973; until then, rate was UM 10/ton.
II. Charges on vessels
A. Daily charge on vessels (under Decree of January 4, 1964)
(1)  Anchorage at quay                          Rate in Um
Vessels of 5 to 20 g.r.t.  ) grace period    60
Vessels of 20 to 150 g.r.t.) of 24 hours    200
Vessels of 150 to 1000 g.r.t.                  400
Vessels of over 1000 g.r.t.                    800



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(2)  Anchorage in roads
Vessels of 5 to 150 g.r.t. ) grace period    30
Vessels of over 150 g.r.t. ) of 30 days
(equipped for fishing)                        100
Vessels of over 150 g.r.t.
(other than fishing vessels and
pleasure boats)                              200
(In practice, only charge (2) is levied on vessels anchored in Repos Bay).
III. Regional Daily Charge on Vessels
(Instituted by the Governor of the 8th Region From June 1970)
Category                                       Rate in UH
1)  Vessels not exceeding 150 g.r.t. and
vessels discharging or dolivering salt                   1000
2)  Vessels of 150 to 1000 g.r.t.                            2000
3)  Vessels over 1000 g.r.t.                                 3000
The charge applies to:
(i)  Commercial vessels anchored at a public or private quay, and com-
mercial vessels anchored in a roadstead and proceeding to tranship
cargo or passengers.
(ii)  Cruise ships of regular lines.
(iii)  Fishing boats which are not subject to a yearly specific charge, or
which are so subject but engage in transhipment operations in a
roadstead or at a quay.
IV. Pilotage charges of the Maritime Service of the port of MIFERMA
For two movements, in and out, 2 UK per net registered ton with a
minimum levy of 4000 UM. For all supplementary movements, 1 UM per g.r.t.
with a minimum levy of 2000 UN.
Hire of pilot-boat, 2000 UN per hour or part of an hour.
V.   SAMMA's Handling Tariff
(Increased by 25% from April 1974 and subject to local tax of 13.64%).



ANNEX 7
Page 3
A.   Handling on board                                  Rate in UM
Class 1  Bagged cargo (up to 80 kg per bag or
unit per ton .................... ...          74
Cargo in bales (Up to 200 kg per bale)
per ton          .........                     74
Cargo in drums (up to 200 kg) per ton          74
Class 2  General cargo in cases, cartons, or
pallets per ton    ....................        80
Class 3  Bulk cargo handled in bucket
per ton ......................0.....           77
Class 4  Long parcels 8 meters long and over
(iron bars - girders - beams - rails,
etc) per ton ...  ...............           171
Class 5 Heavy lifts
(a) from 1000 to 3000 kg per ton  ..          140
(b) fro-m 3001 to 6000 kg per ton ..          276
(c) over 6000 kg per ton ... .......          348
Class 6 Voluminous parcels measuring 5 CBM or
more per ton,  per CBM ...........            80
Class 7 Dangerous explosives,
obnoxious cargo. per ton  .....              109
Class 8  Reefer Cargo (in holds or containers)
per ton .......... o.............            136
Class 9  Vehicles (cars and trucks) tractors,
spacers, etc.....
(a) up to 1500 kg per unit per ton            210
(b) from 1501 to 3000 kg per unit
per ton ...... .... .. o ......           276
(c) from 3001 to 6000 kg per unit
per ton ......................            451
(d) over 6000 kg per unit heavy lift
rates class 5
MINIMUM 500 KG
B.   Lighterage
50% of handling on board tariff (in and out)



ANNEX 7
Page 4
C.  Labor in overtime or standby on board
a.  OVERTIME (PER GANG HOUR)
Rate in UM
Weekdays from 05.00 to 08.00    ..........        1,043
12.00 to 14.00 ..........           1,043
18.00 to 22.00 ..........           1,043
22.00 to 05.00 ..........           1,422
Saturdays from 12.00 to 22.00  .........          1,043
Sundays
Holidays from  06.00 to 05.00 ..........          1,778
05.00 to 22.00   ..._..            1,422
22.00 to 24.00 ..........          1,778
b. STANDBY
Rate in UM
Normal hours (per gang hour)                        888
Overtime (As per overtime rates)
c. OPENING AND CLOSING HATCHES (PER HATCH)              370
D).  Supply of labor
Cleaning hatches, miscellaneous works (per gang hour)  888
E.   Supply of small handling gear
Per ton handled                                           7
Tug                           per hour                1,680
Barge 150 tons cap.                                     402
Pontoon 350 tons cap.                                 1,000
Crane Hyster (3.5t)                                     740
Crane Goowald (Heavy lifts)                           3,000
Crane Austin (7 t)                                    2,140
Fork-lift                                               740
Tractor-lorry                                           500
Trailer                                                 140
Heavy trailer                                           600



ANNEX 7
Page 5
G.   Shore-handling
(From under ship's tackle to stacked in shed or on stacking area)
Class 1 - Salt - wheat - rice - cereals - sugar - edible
oil - potatoes - cement - dried fish
per  ton   .......    ....  ,.  ...             100
Class 2 - Coal - charcoal - ordinary soap - petrol -
kerosene - lime - plaster - bentonite -
iron and steel scrap (export)
per  ton   ..    .    o...*.....          ..    345
Class 3 - N.O.C. Goods
per  ton  .................... * #...* ........ ,   740
Class 4 - Rails - Iron bars, beams, rods more than 12
meters in length
Heavy lifts 1 to 3 tons each
per ton,.** ........o..........               lp. 1,040
Class 5 - Cars, trucks, heavy lifts more than 3 tons each
per ton.. 1,400
Class 6 - Reefer Cargo - Cold room stored cargo
per   ton   *  ........          .... ..... . .-#  1,500
Minimum invoicing: 500 kg



ANNEX 8
Page 1
MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Project Description
1.   Scope of the Project
I.   Civil Engineering Works
Al. Extension of the existing Fishing Berths by a further 300
meters with a least depth alongside of 6 m. The resulting berth will then be
590 m long. No buildings are to be constructed behind the berths, but the
area will be filled and levelled for the future erection of facilities for
associated industries (ice factories, fish processing, etc.).
A2. Extension of the Commercial Berths by 48 m with a least depth
alongside of 8 m on the east side and 7 m on the west side. The length of
the island berth will be 128 m when completed. The structural system for
the extension is similar to that of the original works.
A3. The reconstruction of the approachway from the shore to the
Commercial Berths. The existing piled structure will be demolished and re-
placed by an armored fill causeway which will be much wider (17.5 m) and
capable of carrying heavily loaded vehicles and cranes. An alternative open-
piled structure was included in the tender documents in the event that the
causeway proved to be too expensive.
A4. Extension of one of the ramps, used by small local fishing
craft, off the approachway by a further 10 m,and dredging alongside to
provide a least depth of 4 m.
B.   The construction of sewerage scheme to serve the various port
buildings and the industrial plants associated with the port. The scheme
consists of a simple layout of gravity collectors, two lift stations with a
550 m pumping main to a treatment plant,followed by a 500 m gravity sea out-
fall. The system has additional capacity for future port extension.
C.   The construction of administrative buildings to replace
temporary buildings to be demolished to make way for the new works. The
buildings to be erected are: (i) marine services office; (ii) port author-
ity, merchant navy, fisheries administrative buildings; (iii) a police/
quarantine/health station; (iv) three lodgings for port officers; and (v) a
residential sailors' club.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
D.   The supervision of construction of the above works by a
suitably qualified firm of engineering consultants appointedin accordance
with Bank Group guidelines, and which are acceptable to the co-financers.
II.   Equipment Procurement
A.   The purchase and delivery to site of a launch for the use of
the harbor master. The launch will be such that it can be used for light
towing tasks when required, and possibly for servicing the navigation buoys.
B.   The procurement of equipment for the maintenance of navigation
aids. (The scope of this item is not yet known. The Government has a techni-
cal agreement with DPB/INAA, and procuresequipment and spare parts on a grant
basis. DPB/INAA are presently carrying out a detailed study of needs for
the country as a whole which is due for completion in October 1975. The
results of this study will be used to determine the scope of this procure-
ment.) This will possibly consist of a small buoy tender; workshop equipment;
spare parts for lamps; spare buoys and moorings.
III.   Technical Assistance
A.   40 man-months of technical assistance by port advisors,
including one fishing port specialist and one accountant/financial expert.
B.   Training program consisting mainly of fellowships to foreign
fishing ports (preferably in French-speaking countries).
IV.   Studies for Ship-Repair Facilities
Provision of expert services to study the need for and
development of ship/fishing vessel repair and maintenance facilities at
Nouadhibou.
2.   Civil Works Design
(a) Feasibility studies and detailed engineering of the proposed berth
extensions have been carried out by consultants BCEOM.
(b) The existing fishing berths are constructed as relieving platforms
on concrete piles with an armored slope beneath. This rock armored slope
is useful in reducing wave reflection and thus improves the conditions for
a vessel alongside. However, since the number of small craft (which are the
most severely affected by sea conditions) has decreased sharply, it has been
decided to construct the new extension as a sheet-piled bulkhead to reduce
overall costs. The apron behind the bulkhead will be concreted. It is
considered that the small craft can continue to use the existing berths,
and the larger vessels can use the new extension. It will be necessary for
the old 250-ton marine railway drydock to be demolished to make way for the
new extension. This will be a loss to the port until replaced.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(c) The existing commercial island berth is constructed from a series
of interlocking sheet-piled cells with a reinforced concrete deck. The
planned extension is of similar design but with a different piling section.
(d) The existing approachway is an open piled structure using tubular
steel piles and a partially precast concrete deck. The entire structure
will be removed and replaced with an armored fill causeway with a sheet piled
cut-off above sea level. The effect of a causeway on the present littoral
regime was considered, and the consultants are of the opinion that no silta-
tion should result from its construction,and considerable benefits in terms
of calm water in the lee for small craft are gained. The tender documents
were prepared with an open-piled alternative to the causeway in the event
that the latter proved to be too expensive for the project. The increased
width and load-bearing capacity of the new structure will greatly improve
port operations and also access to the fishing vessel ramps off the approach-
way. It will be necessary for the existing port authority and harbor master's
building to be demolished to make way for the new works. These buildings are
inadequate and badly sited.
(e) The design of the severage scheme has also been prepared by BCEOM.
It utilizes part of an existing sewer system and consists of a series of
gravity lines with two lift stations; a pumping main; treatment plant; and
a sea outfall.
(f) the administrative buildings have been designed by the Ministry of
Equipment of the Government, together with the three lodgings for port
officers. The design of the residential sailors' club complete with swimming
pool was prepared by BCEOM.
3.   Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
(a) The technical assistance program will provide expert services in
the fields of port administration, control of operations (mainly Fishing Port),
modern accounting systems, and in staff planning. Terms of reference for
these services are detailed in the Attachment to Annex 6; the emphasis is on
a low-cost approach for port administration and staffing.
(b) Training programs are necessary because of the limited professional
experience of present port officers, and the expected recruitment of addi-
tional staff. Fellowships in foreign fishing ports (France, Morocco, Senegal,
Tunisia, etc.) are envisaged.
(c) FAC has financed the services of consultants BCEOM for the prepara-
tion of detailed engineering and tender documents. Consulting services will
now be necessary for all work related to construction supervision, including
quarterly reports to the Association. The Government has not yet selected
consultants for these services.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(d)  BCEOM has conducted a feasibility study of repair facilities for
fishing vessels. Additional studies, such as a market study, will be neces-
sary to finalize this project. However, such studies can be conducted only
after a specialized concern shows an interest in ship-repair at Nouadhibou;
this firm will then indicate what additional studies may be necessary.
(e)  BCEOM has also outline4 a port master plan.  However, details are
still to be worked out, such as the type and number of ancillary facilities
that might be necessary to improve operations at the Fishing Berths. This
will be examined by the technical assistant who will study port operations,
and the scope and details of studies cannot yet be determined. In any case,
the proposed proj-ect is in accordance with the master plan.



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1975                        1976                        1977                     1978
1     2       3     4      1      2      3      4       1      2      3      4      1      2      3
ENGINEERING PRELIMINARIES
Completion of tender documents:
CONSTRUCTION OF WORKS
Invitation to bid
Tender period
Report on tenders to Bank                                    m
Board presentation
Award of contract                                                    U
Mobilization
Dredging works                                                                  _         _           _  _
Commercial berths construction
Fishing berths construction
Approachway reconstruction                                                         _     _      _      _
Buildings                                                                   _            _       _      _      -
Sewerage scheme                                                                   -      _       _                    -
EQUIPMENT
Procurement of launch                                                       _                   -
Procurement of buoy and light spares
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Determine terms of reference
Selection of personnel
Implementation
SHIP REPAIR STUDY
Determine terms of reference                                               _
Implementation
Source: Consultants, BCEOM, and Mission estimates                                                                                              World Bank-15222






ANNEX 10
Page 1
MAURITANIA
NOtADIHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Assumptions Underlying Traffic Forgcasts
1.        The proposed forecasts exclude traffic pertaining to a possible
steel-plant complex project for which the capacity, construction schedule,
and siting (Nouakchott vs. Nouadhibou) are still to be decided. If that proj-
ect materializes, the increase in traffic at the Commercial Berth will justify
undertaking the next phase of extension of the Commercial Port earlier than
expected at the time of appraisal of the present Nouadhibou Port Project.  The
proposed project, which corresponds to a first stage of realization of the
long-term port Master Plan, will not obstruct this further port development.
2.        Details of actual and forecast traffic for Nouadhibou Port are given
in Tables 7, 8 and 9. The forecasts are based on statistical analysis of past
traffic made by BCEOM, and on investigations by FAO and the appraisal mission.
Due to the lack of information on traffic by commodity (except fish product
exports) and on likely significant changes in the pattern of traffic expected
in the near future, forecasts have been made by sectors of activity, namely,
MIFERMA group, fishing sector, new planned industries, general cargo imports
for Nouadhibou's population, and oil imports. As the proposed project will
induce appreciable additional traffic mainly from export of fish products,
forecasts are presented for "without" and "with" solutions. The medium or
"best estimate" has been used for project evaluation. Simulation of port
operations confirms that with the proposed traffic trends, the extended Com-
mercial Port (Berth and lighterage) will reach full capacity, estimated at
280,000 tons, by 1983. Without the project, the capacity will be limited to
about 170,000 tons.
A.   General Cargo
3.        Due to the Government's intention to create within the next four
or five years a new industrial area in Nouadhibou, freight traffic at the
Commercial Berth is expected to follow a pattern completely different from
that observed in recent years. Over the medium term, the development of this
area will initially be largely based on expected growth of existing fishing
and mining activities.
4.        Six projects with a high probability of realization have been
considered:
(a) An explosives plant expected to be completed by the end of 1975.
Construction work started in September 1973 with technical assistance from
Nitrochimie and Group France Explosif for engineering. The plant is expected
to produce annually about 6,000 tons of explosives for the domestic market.
About 12,000 additional tons of traffic annually are expected from the protect,
of which 8,000 tons will be imports of raw materials (mainly nitrates).



ANNEX 10
Page 2
l'otiil ad(litionaIl  raffic of 50,000I tons iH expected from construction of the
new plnnt, mainly in 1974/75.
(b) A packing material planl: with a capacity of 2 million cartons and
600,000 paper bags, in a first phase of development with paper pulp imports
from Gabon. An additional unit for production of 6 to 8 million plastic bags
or sheets is expected in a second phase of development. About one-third of
the envisaged production will be for supply to Nouadhibou industries (mainly
fish processing plants).
(c) A can manufacture plant for supplying domestic processing food
industries (Nouadhibou fish canning units and milk industries of Nouakcbott).
A proposed figure of 15 million cans capacity has been adopted for traffic
forecasts, although demand of Nouadhibou fish canning industry may be con-
siderably higher than the proposed capacity of the plant.
The two projects above will generate annual traffic of about 7,000
tons of imports, and 1,500 - 3,000 tons of exports. Additional traffic, con-
servatively estimated at 30,000 tons, is expected to materialize in 1977/78
when construction of the two plants will have been completed.
(d) A small electric steel plant for production of about 10,000 tons
annually of construction steel bars and rods, 60% of which will be supplied to
Nouakchott or eventually to other African countries. As input will be pro-
vided by MIFERMA scrap steel equipments, mainly used rails, no important
additional traffic is expected from this project, except about 35,000 tons in
1976/77 for construction of the plant.
(e) A 24,000 kw power station, the construction of which will generate
about 20,000 tons of additional traffic in 1976/77.
(f) A recently planned project for an oil refinery of about 1 million
tons capacity is to be constructed near the MIFERMA mineral port. Engineering
studies are completed, and construction should start within the next two years
when capacity of the underground water of Bellanoire, which supplies Nouadhibou,
is doubled. This project will eliminate traffic of oil imports at the berth.
Only imports of basic equipment, cement and steel products for construction
of the plant have been considered, and very conservatively estimated at
70,000 tons.
5.        Dry cargo imports for supplying the fishing sector (vessels or fish
processing plants) have been assumed to develop at a rate similar to fish
exports (see Section C below). This traffic is expected to increase from the
present 5,000 tons to about 14,000 tons in 1983, when the extended Fishing
Berth will be fully utilized.
6.        Induced activity.  Provision has been made for possible implementation
by the mid-eighties of some non-planned sub-contracting activities attracted
by the gradual development of Nouadhibou. Additional traffic so generated
has been conservatively estimated at 13,000 tons, i.e., about 20% of the
traffic of industrial plants (excluding MIFERMA and fish processing plants).



ANNEX 10
Page 3
7.        MIFERMA group traffic.  In addition to the "normal" traffic of imports
of equipment (about 30,000 tons p.a.), two additional waves of traffic each
about 70, 000 tons are expected in 1976/77 and 1981/82 for construction of the
new enriched iron mine of the Guelbs, and for completion of track renewal of the
750 km railway Nouadhibou-Zouerate. Traffic in re-exports of used MIFERMA
equipment and steel products (mainly rails) will be phased out, as these ma-
terials will be used for the new electric steel plant.
8.        General cargo imports for the population of Nouadhibou area are based
on an anticipated development of about 13% p.a. from: (i) continuation of the
actual 7% p.a. population growth; and (ii) an increase of per capita imports
conservatively estimated at 6% p.a., i.e., similar to the expected growth of
personal income.
B.   Oil Imports
9.        Oil imports at the Commercial Berth are for supply to fishing
vessels. 1/ Traffic trends (Table 7) reflect the important efforts made by
the Government in recent years to ensure a more regular supply, and to reduce
the appreciable difference in prices between Nouadhibou and adjacent ports
(2.5 UM/liter at Nouadhibou in 1971 as opposed 1.8 UM/liter at Las Palmas and
Dakar). Traffic reached 21,000 tons in 1973 compared to 9,000 tons in 1971.
Until 1974, oil was shipped from Dakar in small tankers of about 1,500 GRT
which call twice a month with an average cargo of about 900 tons. Since early
1974, Mauritania has been benefiting from more favorable conditions offered
by OPEC countries, and oil is now imported directly from Arzew (Algeria).
This new arrangement permits Nouadhibou to supply oil to fishing vessels at
prices 10% lower than at Dakar and Las Palmas.
10.       Demand for oil by fishing vessels was expected to reach 30,000 tons
in 1974, and to increase by 15-17% p.a. in the following years due to: (i) the
expected 13% growth of traffic in fishing vessels based at Nouadhibou; and
(ii) the additional demand of foreign fleets which operate fish transshipment
in the port roadways.  Traffic at the berth will cease after 1977, as supply
will be provided directly by land from the new oil refinery, construction of
wlhich is expected in 1977/78 with the assistance of OPEC countries.
C.   Fresh Fish Landings and Fish Exports
11.       Considering the importance of resources in Mauritanian territorial
waters, traffic forecasts are based on the assumption that maximum utilization
of all berthing facilities will be attained by about 1983. Total landings
of fresh fish at the port might then reach about 260,000 tons, i.e., three
times the present level. Delivery of fish to Nouadhibou processing plants
will represent: (i) about one-third (compared to 10% at present) of the
estimated catches within Mauritania's existing sea boundaries restricted to
1/   Supply for the town of Nouadhibou and for MIFERMA is made directly from
the MIFERNA unit located at the mineral port. Traffic is about one
12,000-ton tanker every four or five weeks.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
55 km; and (ii) about 15% of the estimated catches (1.5 million tons) along
the northwestern coast of Africa (compared to 5% at present.)
12.       This development pre-supposes that the Government will:  (i) continue
the present adequate control of its territorial waters with, if necessary,
assistance of a foreign fleet (such as that of Russia which recently provided
two additional patrol boats); (ii) continue to give maximum support to develop-
ment of the fishing complex at Nouadhibou, having regard to the possibility
of increasing fishing rights; and (iii) pursue its objective of gradual deve-
lopment of a domestic fishing fleet. It has been assumed that some of the
recently envisaged projects for development of a domestic fleet to be executed
in joint venture with OPEC countries (Algeria, Kuwait) and with Ghana will be
gradually completed.
13.      Maximum future landings of pelagic fish at the Fishing Berth have
been estimated at 150,000 tons, i.e., three times the present level. This
amount might represent about 40%" of the catches of sardinella in Mauritanian
waters. These forecasts take into account: (i) important projects for ex-
tension of fishmeal capacity envisaged by fish processing plants at Nouadhibou
following the increase in the world market in 1973/74 (about US$270-300/ton
compared to US$130 in 1972); (ii) development of the Mauritanian fleet of
seiners; (iii) greater increase in the costs of processing on factory ships
than on the in-shore plants due to fuel price increase. Extension of the
length of the Fishing Berth, and reorganizing port operations, will also in-
crease by 2.5 times the landing capacity for demersal species. About 70%
of the expected 50,000 additional tons which are expected to be landed when
full utilization of the extendecd Fishing Berth is reached, are already covered
by the recent new fishing agreements with Russia, Kuwait, Ghana, Algeria, etc.
14.       Although precise figures regarding the potential capacity of the
Fishing Port will be available only on completion of the study for reorganiza-
tion of the fishing port operations, the mission has estimated that a reduction
of about 50% in the actual service time for unloading and servicing trawlers
could be secured from:
(i) increase in the rate of unloading fresh fish from the actual low
rate of 3.5 tons/hour to about 6 tons/hour with utilization of adequate
handling equipment, such as mobile cranes operated by a specialized handling
unit under the control of a Specialist in fishing port operations;
(ii) reduction of time loss in supply operations through an increase in
the rate of ice delivery from the present 4 tons/hour to 10-12 tons/hour
at a special berth with adequate modern equipment; and
(iii) better utilization of the existing complementary berthing facilities
such as allocation of one of the three Ramps for supply operations to fishing
vessels, the rates of occupation of which have been steadily decreasing with
progressive reduction of the Canarian fleet (624 berthings in 1973 as against
2,198 in 1971).



ANNEX 10
Page 5
15.       The proposed improvement would make possible the allocation of about
450 m of quay for trawler-unloading operations, and realization of a gradual
increase in the average rate of utilization of the Fishing Berth to 130 to 140
tons/year/meter of quay, i.e., 40% higher than the present rate of 93 tons for
Japanese trawlers.
16.       Exports of fish prodqcts are expected to reach 125,000 tons in 1983.
Additional traffic induced by extension of berthing facilities and improvement
of port operations will be about 70,000 tons (Table 9). Most of this increase
(43,000 tons) will be provided by exports of frozen fish. The Government is
expected to give high priority to this development because of its high econo-
mic profitability (US$135 per ton of direct benefits as against US$43 for
fishmeal and oil) for Mauritania.



ANNEX II.
MAURITANIA
NOUADHIBOIJ PORT PROJECT
Principal Assumptions for Economic Evaluation
A.  Fishing Berth Extension
1.       Only the additional exports of frozen products, fishmeal, or fish
oil induced by extension of the Fishing Berth have been considered.
2.       Forecasts of landings at the Fishing Berth are based on full utili-
zation of extended capacity by 1983.  About 450 meters of the berth could be
allocated to trawlers after extension and reorganization of port operations.
The rate of unloading of fresh fish could then reach about 140 tons/meter of
berth/year. (Annex 10, paras. 15 and 16).
3.       Direct benefits for Mauritania from additional activity of the pro-
cessing plants and taxes on exports are given in Table 13. They are as
follows:
(i)  Additional taxes on fish plants are estimated at 10.5% and
6.4% of the FOB value of frozen fish and fishmeal respectively.
These percentages include export taxes conservatively estimated
at US$30 and US$10 for frozen fish and fishmeal, respectively
(4.0% and 3.3% of the FOB value);
(ii) Non-repatriated profits of the processing plants will progres-
sively increase with the participation of Mauritania in the
capital of the processing plants (see Table 11);
(iii)  Net benefits from additional wages of domestic labor have been
evaluated at 45% of the salaries paid by the fish plants; and
(iv) Mauritania's participation in development of the fishing plants
(public facilities, extension and equipment of industrial areas,
imports of equipment) has been assumed to vary mainly with the
level of taxes derived from processing plant activity (taxes on
imports, corporate cr sales taxes). It has been assumed that
participation of Mauritania could represent 25 to 30% of the
capital cost needed for extension. The forecasted costs,
respectively US$6 million and US$1 million for development of
the frozen fish and fishmeal plants during the next decade,ex-
clude on-going projects for modernization.
4.       Benefits from diesel oil supply to foreign 7essels have been computed
on the basis of a consumption of 1.2 tons of oil per ton of fish landed for
ice trawlers, and 0.4 ton of oil per ton of sardinella for fish carriers.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Additional supply to other ships has been estimated at about 30% of supply
for trawlers. Present net economic benefit of UM 3/liter of oil for consump-
tion by the foreign processing plants (surtax on oil) and UM 107/t for foreign
fishing vessels has been used for projection, although a significant increase
in benefits can be expected when the oil refinery starts operations.
5.       The complement of Mauritanian sailors is expected to increase in
proportion to landings; about 260 additional sailors are expected on foreign
trawlers, and 190 on other vessels by 1983 when berthing facilities will be
fully utilized. The forecasts assume a continuation of the present system
of training two Mauritanian sailors on each foreign vessel. Net additional
wages will vary from UM 60,000 for trained crew on trawlers, to UM 24,000 for
new trainees on seiners or other vessels. The latter figure covers the
recurrent cost of sailors operating on Mauritanian vessels.
6.       No precise data could be obtained regarding future development of
the Mauritanian fleet or of joint venture projects with Algeria, Kuwait, Ghana,
etc., now under negotiations. Forecasts have only taken into account a
possible normal development of the existing small Mauritanian fleet composed
of three seiners. Recurrent costs for development of this fleet have been
estimated at UM 13 million per year. They include: (i) purchase of six
additional vessels by the end of the 70's at a unit cost of US$450,000; and
(ii) operating costs of US$110,000 per year and per vessel for maintenance,
repairs, and purchase of fishing equipment.
7.       Provision has also been made for urban improvements which are urgently
needed in Nouadhibou. Although the lack of an urban development plan does
not permit citing of any precise figure, it has been assumed that, by the mid
80's, these expenditures could easily reach two to three times their present
level. Total expenses associated to development of the fishing sector could
reach US$4 million by the end of the 70's.
8.       Shadow priced construction costs (UM 303 million) have been estimated
at 1975 costs. Major adjustments made for calculation of economic costs
include a foreign exchange premium of 30%, a domestic labor premium of minus
50%, and taxes on construction costs estimated at 28%. Fifty-four percent of
additional costs included in the project for buildings, sewerage, technical
assistance and consulting services, have been allocated to the Fishing Berth.
Total economic cost of investments allocated to the Fishing Berth thus amount
to UM 446 million.
9.       Completion of extension works has been forecast for August 1977.
10. Commercial Berth Extension and Approachway Reconstruction
10.      A Port Simulation Model was used to test the influence of increases
in handling rates, and daily working time on the turn-around time of ships
and capacity of the berth. Runs were performed for each year of the period



ANNEX 11
Page 3
1977-83 both in solution "with" and "without" , and results compared. Results
confirmed that an increase of about 20% in the present handling rates, and
Implementation of a two-shift system of 16 working hours a day, would be
required to reduce ship time in port about 30%, and to reduce the average
waiting time to less than 3 hours after extension of berth, i.e., less than
10% of service time. Even with the envisaged improvements, the incidence
of peak traffic periods will still require that an important percentage of
traffic be diverted to lighterage (24% in solution "with", as opposed to 30%
in solution "without").
11.      Values of main parameters used for simulation of port operations
are presented in Table 10. They are based on analysis of ship call records
for 1973, and for the first quarter of 1972 and 1974. Considering the variety
of operations, eight categories of ships were selected, the definition being
based on size, nature of operations, on-board handling rates, and berthing
constraints (length and draft) of the two aprons of the berth.
12.      Since traffic is expected to increase considerably during the period
1976-78, particular attention was also given to estimating the appreciable
costs induced by extension works to the berth. Assuming that space of about
20 to 30 meters will be needed at the extremity of the berth during the con-
struction period for storage of materials or equipment, the small 55 meter
internal apron of the berth will become unserviceable, and berting capacity
will be reduced to about 50 meters on the external apron. As a consequence,
about 40% of freight traffic will be diverted to lighterage (Table 10). Mean
waiting time per ship would increase from 4 hours in solution "without" to
about 11 hours, and mean service time would reach 50 hours as opposed to 42
hours in solution "with" (Table 10). These increases can be reduced by about
30% by providing additional berthing facilities at a nearby Ramp for small
coasters and for supply operations. Such improvements will include a 10-meter
extension of a Ramp, supply of water and diesel oil, and dredging to about
4.5 meters; these have all been included in the propsoed project.
13.      Costs of ship-waiting time have been provided by shipping companies
calling at Nouadhibou, by the West Africa Conference, and by the French Comite
Central des Armateurs. Costs vary from US$50 per hour for smaller coasters
(including an ex-ice-trawler converted for shipment of frozen fish) to US$200
for larger liners (Table 10).
14.      On-board handling costs have been estimated from SAMMA operating
accounts for dry cargo traffic, and from AGMACO and fish processing plants for
loading of frozen products. Costs, net of taxes, include repatriated profits.
Domestic labor premium was estimated at minus 50%. Lighterage operations,
currently subsidized by on-board operations at the berth, have been evaluated
at their real economic cost. Reduction of costs due to the project will be
realized mainly through an expected increase in the number of hatches worked.
Average reduction will be about ].2%, varying from 10% for smaller liners or



ANNEX 11
Page 4
medium-size coasters, to 15% for ships of 6,000 GRT or more for which an
additional hatch can be worked (Table 10). These estimates are based on a
recent study conducted by SAMMA and given to the mission. A major uncertainty
remains regarding exact operating costs and possible improvement of handling
operations of the smallest units -- Canarian coasters and small frozen fish
cargo -- whose operations are currently carried out by crew or with assistance
of labor from the processing plants. Although there is a good possibility of
improvements, reduction of costs has been conservatively estimate at 10%.
Savings on ship operating costs (on-board handling costs and value of time
for servicing the ships) accruing from the project after its completion
average UM 119 (US$2.9) per ton for all port operations, including lighterage.
For operations at the Commercial Berth, the savings have been estimated at
UM 86 (US$2.1) per ton.
15.      On-shore handling costs include both cost of the stevedoring firms
(75% of traffic) and handling costs of enterprises (25% of traffic, mainly
fish product exports) which undertake or assist in handling operations. These
costs include important pricing adjustments, such as a recent 15% increase
in the cost of domestic labor, and a 25% increase in tariffs recently allowed
for SAMMA operations. They exclude the rent of UM 18 million now paid by
SAMMA to the port. Reduction of 22% in the present high unit cost (UM 290/ton)
is expected from the project. Most of these savings will be provided by reha-
bilitation of the Approachway to the Commercial Berth, i.e. (i) reduction
of lighterage operations with elimination of the present limitation to 10 tons
of the maximum load allowed on the Approachway; this improvement affects
about 5% of traffic for which savings of UM 63/ton in on-board operations are
expected; and (ii) saving of about UM 55/ton from speed-up of operations and
improvement of on-shore operations for cargo loaded or unloaded at the berth.
Since trucks and trailers will now have direct access to the berth, the present
expensive system of handling cargo in units of two or three tons with small
mobile cranes over a distance of about 600 meters will be limited only to high-
value cargo.
16.      Reduction in the amount of traffic diverted to lighterage will reduce
losses and damage to cargo caused by double-handling (Table 15 and 16). These
savings have been estimated at 1.2% of the value of average cargo estimated
at UM 37,000 (US$900) per ton.
17.      Reduction in loss and damage of cargo in on-shore operations (mainly
fish products) has been conservatively estimated at 0.3% of value of cargo
handled at the Commercial Berth.
Economic Costs and Benefits
18.      Economic benefits have been calculated by considering full cost re-
duction for normal traffic (traffic of solution "without"), and half of unit
cost reduction for traffic induced by the project. As the attitude of shipping
companies towards a significant increase of lighterage during the construction
period and peak periods of traffic is uncertain, it has been assumed that



ANNEX 11
Page 5
Mauritania will recoup only 90, of the prc._ect benefits.  This percentage
includes also profit repatriated abroad hy the stevedoring companies.
19.      Costs and benefits streams hlave been evaluated at 1975 prices.
Adjustments made for calculations of economic costs are similar to those
adopted for the Fishing Berth. Taxes represent 29% of construction costs
for the Commercial Berth, and 277 for T:he Approachway. Twenty-four percent of
additional costs for buildings , technical assistance, and consulting services
have been allocated to the berth, and 16% to the Approachway. Allocationswere
made in proportion to construction cos,-s.  Total economic investment costs
therefore amount to UtM 273 million for the Coummercial Berth, and UM 117 million
for the Approachway.
20,      In order to take into consideration possible non-realization of some
industrial projects envisaged at Nouvad,bou, the economic return was calculated
for a second set of traffic forecasts, assumilng a reduction of 15% in the
basic traffic proposed in the "best estimate", and of 30% in the peak traffic.
In this case the economic return will be only 16% instead of 18% in the traffic
"best estimate" case.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Analysis
The financial projections contained in Tables 18-20 are based on
the following main assumptions:
1.   Valuation of the original assets transferred to the port has
been done in terms of the final report of consultants BCEOM,
with some modifications.
2.   Net debit or credit in respect of old structures, demolished or
reconstructed in execution of the project, after allowing for
the cost of any usable materials salvaged, will be taken in the
project. Scrap value of other assets to be demolished during
the period has been assumed to be insignificant.
3.   Of the total estimated project cost of UM 1.13 billion, half
the cost of the administrative buildings and the entire cost
of the navigation aids equipment, sailors' residential club,
and studies for development of ship-repair facilities have been
treated as finally bearable by the Government. The net total
cost of the project allocable to the port has thus been taken
as UM 904.88 million (US$22.07 million equivalent).
4.   Ordinary capital expenditure will be on a nominal scale.
5.   All new project assets will be capitalized at the time they
are brought into commercial use, which is expected to be in
1977.
6.   Depreciation has been calculated on the estimated cost of the
project assets other than land and intangible assets, by the
straight-line method, and according to estimated lives based
on broad categories. Reclaimed land is capitalized at direct
costs. Expenditures on advisory services and training are
capitalized and amortized as intangible assets over ten years.
7. All future revenue estimates are based on the traffic forecasts
(Tables 7-9). Estimates for 1977 onwards include the contemplated
generation of additional revenue, and its augmentation on account
of higher traffic in subsequent years.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
8. The extra revenue referred to in para. 7 above will be secured
mainly through a rational cost-based revision of tariffs.
9. Increase in the cost of staff has been allowed for each year
to cover normal increments and in relation to traffic growth.
10.   Increase ip the cost of materials has been provided each year
to cover likely escalation and in relation to traffic growth.
11.   The entire cost of the project allocable to the port will be
financed by a, cpital contribution from the Government, and
provision ua4e for payment of dividend to the Government on
its total equity at 3% per annum from 1977 onwards.
12.   Income tax is not payable by PAN to the Government.
13.   Surplus cash will earn interest at 5.5% per annum.
14.   Cargo-handling and stevedoring will continue to be entrusted
to SAMHA.



MAURITANIA
NOUADHIBOU PORT PROJECT
Consolidated Project
Risk Analysis - Probability Distribution of Rate of Return
PROBABILITY %                        on Proposed Project
100
80
50                                  g       (Pr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bl. 1. RR.<  X%
40/                                                                          I
I.R.R. PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTION
20                               F
RATE OF RETURN
20            25             30            35             40             45
World Bank-9078






IBRL  llUY7R
OcEAN                                              2/0                                             lb°                                 AUGUST 1974
CrsC  )  tUNISIA                                 LA         Canary   Islands
LA PALMA      TENERIFE                             LANZAROTE
SPANISH     (       ALGERIA            LIBYA    -2b°
SAHARA,        r'               V                                           GOMERA                                              FUERTEVENTURA
(RIO DIE OROWl
DF OII  -.-.I      \.                                                                                    0  Lao Palms,
MAURITANIA                                                               HIERRO
M ALI          NIGER    j                                                            GRANCANARIA                          MOROCCO
GAMPI..   \                              /  CHAD                                                                                                .
BIB>ulNES-<'OLTArb>5j
SIERRA LEiONEK>.l tC O      AST )   0 i { ; 3 / NIGERIA   -                                                                               AAIUN
LII RIER2A                              \N.  APR
T0000  ~~~     \REP.~<
CAMEROON\-
S P A N I S H r
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                                                                                   I
-240                  PORTS AND PORT TRAFFIC                                                                                      Gulta Zmmur          ro
PORT IMPORTS DRY CARGO IN THOUSANOTONS 1973, INCLUDING FISH                S  A    H    A    R  A
PORT EXPORT, IN THOUSAND TONS 1973, INCLUDING FISH PRODUCTS
(RIO  DE ORO)                     i
PORTS                                                                                                                  242t
PAVED ROADS                                                               TRp_
PAVED ROAD UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                    _ TRop, OF CANCER
GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                                    -    -
TRACKS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                    /
/Derick
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ofbouer,rrt
9,,,,QO     ,   15iO    ,   2bO                                 0
KILOMETERS                                 5i
P        tjD               1bO                     /            \                                                      a
MILES                                                                                   .            ___
Nouadhibou
-2D0
20° (OOuadane
Cap                                           Atar
\ y ; °~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ch/nguretti
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O tk o '                                                  t                                                  20
1                                          ~~~~~~      ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~Timiris  A 8<\2
X  y                                           W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~idiikda
,          ~          ~          e NOUAKCHOTT                                                 / /x 
1             30u~~~~~~otilimit                dj  1i
5   / <    ~~~~~~~~~ s                         tI ~~~~~~~Tenchakltt
FIGURE FOR DAKAR IS          r           -w    S6A7^     BoghI
TRAFFICWITH MAURITANIA                                                                 Kiffe
--T . IN 1971         St. Louis                                 6 
Usg.llre 
( M  bark~~~Mace                                                   (
DAKAR       Oioo,be/
T,h b-u,,darie, show,, on this n;ap do arlt/                                                                    M   A        L   I
implv 'ndornesne rr aceeptaswe hy flv        Kaclac   G,
World Bank and its affifiaret






IBRD 11098R
AUGUST 1974
20              18               16'                       0
oC  MO   CcO)         f T NISIA
st\ Xi                         _                              ^  >  )   $ 8 CAN   RY   ISLANDS
N ALGERIA         LBA§
5PANI .P^t  r $T L I B YA                                            .-hLA PALMA
itAURITANIA!       >MER -                     .     =X'  O R                                        ,aAPomos         l
Si  MALI<--J   / NIGER               j.                               HiERO _/
GAMtA'-%  \        /T               SCHAD
EA  IRE Z                               A NIGERIA  J   A'
A    T S        ," CE''-
LN .       A.                             N       /
5N\EY (E,-.(
7hr boundries shorn on this raap do not                                                                     '                     26'
imply endorsement or acepePtanee by the                     0   ,C    E    A    N Al                                              F
World &nk nd its affsktWse&                       ix     0  
,~Mt Nothr Li                                          N    0 
toImote Northerr iin,it Of Sardinelig Fishing              C
;N.2 il .   / sf  r-,    +   1 24'-
S,r JorgA<   / R 3uilla Cisneros  "'
' t -~-->  j 8  e TROPIC  OF/    CANCER
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                                        /                                1'
NORTHWEST AFRICA FISHERIES                                                                                                  22'!
Fishing Rights Limits                                           HIBOU
122 Nautical Miles Senegal                                       7
30 Noutical Miles Mauritania
12 Nautical Miles Spanish Sahora io                                                                            20'-
Fish Imports in Thousond Tons            x,\                        MAURITANIA
(excluding direct transhipment
of fish neither processed nor      j     G/
stored locally)                         '    I        .         N
-200m--  Bathymetric Lines in Meters                                      'NOUAKCHOTT
-   -     Internotional Boundaries
O s50100O      200      300            II>i/ /
KILOMETERS
0           100           200
MILES                      N                                                                                -
I-'~  ~            ,              IIIS.Lu                          \                        °
I \ V DAvR     S   E   N    E   G    AEN G A
Koolock                                         14'
.      4$O;{u9.;ut       /            .            PfANJuL ;r_         >-   _V 
.                   fr'              §      '  ' ;4       ;     -         \~~~<9f N                1, 04)
r      ;    F  --t-  > t~N,    hors,,                 <        
21'  .  2UIN2°E QJAU              GUINEA
2]'         ~~~~212'         20'               IS'ISA  1.(                                           2
11                           1              -~I    I                                               I  






IBRD 11009R1
7CtOBER  1975
,~~~~~f   II IR   
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
~~~~~~~~~~~
PORT OF NOUADHIBOU \
EXISTING INSTALLATIONS AND PROJECT                                                                                   \                                                                                                                      Uc,ir20-
5 5   \                                              |                                                                l                                                             S           +|?                 |    M A L I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M        
~~~~  E  <_  |  |  E  '-1i3 E N E G A I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
*i  , ; 0  ;<r  -  1   1111   C r ' n    oF r. A/',~l4~  77                                     i        Exstitg Fac It es
L--2|  Proposed F-cirties
!a1|*::    Proposed Dredging
t 75t$- f tE ?St dI == 'hSl I w ND E S:frS 1;nl7| g Rallways~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-t-------   ailay
-vS--  .  Bathyetric Lne in Mete
Level s below, oww, e ordinory spr-g t,des
P-j et sh- r-d
iAM    A                                                                                                                                          0  iArC
O~ 2,0      6,0    tOO        t4AD
METESE0
0 100  200   300   400   500
sEET
4vi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W-., -1 B-d~~~~~~~'ItrOi 
It,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S ~                                                                                                                                                  t 
r!~~~N~~5 MU~~~~B~~Pt&V  t060~~~F
W                  psmSs  di                                  2I0Brrs                                                                                         ~        5                                                     
M.~~~~~~~~~~0 
-4~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arr
071'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                                             mg      s
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0rt                           i



