CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 588 MAU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Nouadhibou Port Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 31, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 588 MAU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Nouadhibou Port Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 31, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 1975, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF MAURITANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association, the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique, an agency of the Republic of France
(hereinafter called Caisse Centrale), and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund) to assist in the financing of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B)   By an agreement to be entered into between Caisse Centrale and the
Borrower (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement), Caisse Centrale
intends to assist the Borrower in financing Parts IA and D(i), 1lA and Ill of the
Project by making to the Borrower a loan (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale
Loan) in an amount equivalent to five million seven hundred thousand dollars
($5,700,000);
(C)  By an agreement to be entered into between the Kuwait Fund and
the Borrower (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement), the Kuwait
Fund intends to assist the Borrower in financing Parts I and 11B of the Project
by making to the Borrower a loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in
an amount equivalent to eight million three hundred thousand dollars ($8,300,000);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to   Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were


﻿4
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Port" means the port of Nouadhibou;
(b)   "PAN" means Port Autonoine de Nouadhibou, an Etablissement
Public of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 75.035
of February 6, 1975;
(c)   "UM" means Ouguiya, the currency of the Borrower;
(d)   "Port Master Plan" means the plan for the development of the port
of Nouadhibou, to be adopted pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement as such
plan may be modified from time to time in consultation with the Association;
and
(e)   "Plan of Action" means the plan of action set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, as such plan of action may be modified from time to time
in agreement with the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000),
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed


﻿5
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July I commencing
January 1, 1986 and ending July 1, 2025, each installment to and including the
installment payable On July 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
Per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, if the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity any part of its indebtedness
under the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement or the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall simultaneously repay a proportionate amount of the Credit then
outstanding.
ARTICLE HI
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the p.urpose,
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower (a) in the preparation of plans
and specifications for the Project- (b) in the preparation of bidding documents
for the Project and in analyzing bids received; and (c) in the supervision of the
constructions under the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants


﻿6
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part IA of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery the:.td' to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)         maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Caisse Centrale Loan and the Kuwait Fund
Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii)        enable the   Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project,
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and my relevant records and documents; and
(iii)       furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Caisse Centrale Loan and the Kuwait Fund Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿7
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. Promptly when the individual facilities under Part I of the
Project and the equipment under Part 11 of the Project are available for use, the
Borrower shall transfer such facilities and equipment to PAN and shall cause PAN
to increase, upon any such transfer, its capital by an amount or amounts
corresponding to the cost of such facilities and equipment as shall have been borne
by the Borrower.
Section 3.08. In order to assist PAN in (a) port administration; (b) the
improvement of its accounting and financial procedures, including the revision of
tariffs; and (c) the survey and reorganization of port operations, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, and shall cause PAN to
utilize the services of such consultants in accordance with said terms and conditions.
Section 3.09. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the studies
under Part IV of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to   reflect in accordance with    consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02, The Borrower shall take or cause PAN to take all such action
as shall be necessary to adopt, within twelve months after the date of this
Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, a port master
plan for the development of the Port, in consultation with the Association.
Section 4.03. During the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall,
from  time to time, consult with the Association on its program and on PAN's
program  for investments in facilities for the Port.


﻿8
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take or cause PAN to take all such action
as shall be necessary on its part or on PAN's part, respectively, to implement the
Plan of Action in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Project, open
a special account at the Tresor and shall maintain in it funds in an amount
equivalent to the estimated local expenditures under the Project during the
following three months. The Borrower shall also credit in said account the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account which the Association shall not
have paid directly to suppliers of goods or services at the Borrower's request and
on its behalf.
(b)   The Borrower shall open another account (caisse d'avance) in a bank
in Mauritania, and shall credit it with fun%s withdrawn from the special account
referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, in such amounts as shall be needed to cover
ordinary, small local expenditures under the Project.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of PAN
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PAN at all times to manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and port management
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by qualified and competent staff.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PAN adequately to maintain the works,
installations and equipment used in its operations and promptly make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and port
management standards and practices.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause PAN at all times to take all such action
as shall be necessary on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights which
are necessary or useful for the purpose of carrying out its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause PAN to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice, taking into account the asset values reflected
in PAN's balance sheet as such values shall be revised from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation acceptable
to the Association.


﻿9
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that PAN does not incur any debt if its net revenues for
the financial year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever amount
is the greater, shall be less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements
for any succeeding financial year on all PAN's debt, including the debt to be
incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         "debt" means all debt of PAN, including debt guaranteed by
PAN, maturing by its terms more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred;
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of the contract or other document providing for
such debt or modifying its terms of payment;
(iii)       the term "net revenues" means the difference between (A) gross
operating revenue from all sources, adjusted to take account of
PAN's tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the entire financial
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, and
(B) all operating expenses, including adequate maintenance,
taxes, if any, and administrative expenses, but before provision
for  depreciation, debt service   requirements, and    annual
distribution of profits to the Borrower under Section 5.08 of
this Agreement;
(iv)        the term   "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest !,,d other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the rate
of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by PAN,
at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at
the rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the
Association.


﻿10
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause PAN to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PAN     to:
(i)         have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)        furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such
year,
A.    certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and
B.    the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)       furnish  to   the  Association  such   other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of PAN
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall establish or cause PAN to establish
appropriate tariffs and charges for each of the individual services and other facilities
provid6d, as would enable PAN to cover operating, maintenance, replacement,
depreciation, taxes and administrative and other expenses, including payment of
interest and other charges on debt, if any, and to achieve the rate of return referred
to in Section 5.06.
(b)   Without any limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall, in establishing the tariffs and charges therein referred
to, give or cause PAN to give due consideration to the Port's competitiveness with
other ports.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, th,
Borrower shall take or cause PAN to take from time to time all necessary measures,


﻿*                                    11
including, but not limited to adjustments in the tariffs referred to in Section 5.05,
as shall be required to enable PAN to earn an annual rate of return of not less
than six per cent (6%) up to fiscal year 1977 and of not less than two and one
half per cent (2.5%) thereafter;
(b)   for the purposes of this Section:
(i)          the annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect
of each fiscal year by relating the net operating revenue
for that year to the average of the value of the net fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of
that year;
(ii)        the term "net operating revenue" shall mean the difference
between (A) gross operating revenue and (B) operating and
administrative expenses, including adequate maintenance
and depreciation and taxes, if any, but excluding
distribution of profits, interest and other charges on debt
(if any); and
(iii)       the term   "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall
mean the gross value of fixed assets in operation less the
accumulated depreciation, such assets to be valued and
such depreciation to be calculated from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation and depreciation acceptable to the
Association.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take or cause PAN to take from time to time all steps necessary
for PAN to maintain a working ratio for the Port of not more than thirty five
per cent (35%) in financial years 1975 and 1976 and thirty per cent (30%) in
financial year 1977 and thereafter.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section, the term "working ratio" means total
operating and administrative expenses of the Port, excluding depreciation, taxes,
interest and other charges on debt (if any) and distribution of profits, divided
by gross operating revenue.
Section 5.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause PAN to take all necessary measures to distribute annually profits to
the Borrower, starting from fiscal year 1977, on its equity at the minimum rate
of three per cent (3%) per annum.


﻿12
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Borrower's Decree No. 75.035 of February 6, 1975, shall,
without the consent of the Association, have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to (i) substantially alter the organization,
powers and responsibilities of PAN, or (ii) materially or substantially affect the
ability of PAN to carry out its operations.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall, without
the consent of the Association, have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of PAN or for the suspension of its operations.
(c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Caisse Centrale
Loan or of the Kuwait Fund Loan shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant to the
provisions of the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement or the Kuwait
Fund Loan Agreement, or (B) any such loan shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)        Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by failure by the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under any such agreement and (B) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)(i)(B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of


﻿13
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Caisse Centrale Loan
Agreement and the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement have been duly signed and
conditions precedent to initial disbursements, if any, under such agreements, save
for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The date January 28, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.03 of this
Agreement and the provisions of Article V of this Agreement and those of Section
6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.0 1. The Minister responsible for the Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de la Planification
et du D6veloppement Industriel
Nouakchott
Mauritanie
Cable address:
MINIPLAN
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿14
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s / Ahmedou Ould Abdallah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works and                5,920,000         37%
Consulting Serv-
ices under Parts
I.A and D(i) of
the Project
(2)  Technical Assis-                 350,000          50%
tance and Train-
ing under Part
III of the Project
(3)   Consulting Serv-                300,000           100%
ices under Part
IV of the Proj-
ect
(4)   Unallocated                    1,430,000
TOTAL         8,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any


﻿16
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of Mauritania's Port Master Plan, consists of the
following parts:
I.    Civil Works
A.    (1)  Extension of the Fishing Wharf by 300 m, with an alongside
depth of 6 m;
(2)   Extension of the Commercial Wharf by 48 m, with an alongside
depth of 8 m on one side and 7 m on the other;
(3)   Replacement of the approach way linking the Commercial Wharf
to the shore, by a causeway; extension of one of the adjacent
ramps for small fishing craft by 10 m and dredging to 4 m
alongside that ramp;
B.    Construction of a sewerage system  for the fish plants and other
buildings at the Port;
C.    Construction of (i) administrative buildings for PAN, including an
office for the marine services, administrative buildings for the port
authority, the Merchant Navy and the Fisheries, and a Police and
Health Station, and (ii) three housing facilities for port officers and
a sailors' residential club; and
D.    Provision of consulting services for the supervision of the civil works
(i) under paragraph A above; and (ii) under paragraphs B and C above.
11.   Equipment
A.    The procurement of a harbor master's launch; and
B.    The procurement of navigation aids maintenance equipment.
III.  Technical Assistance
A.    Utilization of up to 40 man-months of specialists' services to assist
PAN in port administration, in accounting and finance, and in the
survey and reorganization of port operations; and


﻿18
B.    Training of port personnel in foreign fishing ports.
IV.   Studies for Ship Repair Facilities
Utilization of specialist's services for carrying out studies for the development
of ship repair facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1978.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let inder procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    In the implementation of the procedures referred to in Part A. I above, the
following will apply:
(i)         Bidders for the works included in Part I of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines; and
(ii)        Bidders for such works may submit (a) separate bids for any
of the following works: (A) the maritime civil works included
in Part LA of the Project; (B) the sewerage works included under
Part LB of the Project; and (C) the works for the construction
of buildings under Part I.C of the Project, or (b) a bid for any
combination of such civil works. In the case of a bid under
(b) above, the bidder will be required to submit separate bids
for the works included in the combination.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Ciiil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Con tractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (1)
of the table set forth in Schedule I to the Credit Agreement, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.


﻿20
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part B.1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the
bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of


﻿S21
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended awa-rd would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Plan of Action
Dates by which measures
shall be completed, ex-
cept as the Borrower and
the Association shall
otherwise agree                                   Measures to be taken
1976
January 1                           A.     The Borrower will employ and cause
PAN to utilize Advisors acceptable
to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the
Association, who will, inter alia:
(i)         With respect to organization
and operations:
(a)   recommend to PAN's Board the
steps necessary to improve
PAN's present organizational
and administrative structure
to enable it to fulfill its
statutory responsibilities
and objectives;
(b)   recommend to PAN improvements
in the quality and productivity
of commercial and port opera-
tions and assist PAN in issuing
manuals and drafting port
regulations;
(c)   advise PAN and the fishing
industry establishment at
the Port on berthing and
servicing facilities needed
to meet the needs of the
various fleets;
(d)   train PAN's personnel in
management, administration and
control of operations;
(e)   advise the Borrower and PAN
on finalization of the Port
Master Plan; and
(f)   assist the Port Director in
implementing the measures
referred to in sub-paragraphs
(a) to (c) above.


﻿23
Dates by which measures
shall be completed, ex-
cept as the Borrower and
the Association shall
otherwise agree                                      Measures to be taken
(ii)        With respect to accounting and
finance:
(a)   formulate a clear statement
of PAN's financial objectives
so that it can attain a
satisfactory balance between
profitability to cover its
financial obligations (includ-
ing those under the Credit
Agreement with the Association)
and future growth requirements,
on the one hand, and its posi-
tion as a public service entity,
on the other hand;
(b)   reorganize PAN's accounting
system on proper commercial
lines so that accounts will
accurately reflect financial
results, and costs of principal
services can be readily
determined;
(c)   introduce within PAN a system
of management accounting;
(d)   undertake cost studies and
recommend to PAN a cost-based
tariff system;
(e)   provide suitable training to
PAN's accountant and his staff,
and prepare a comprehensive
budget and accounts manual; and
(f)   organize and introduce an
adequate system of internal
audit.
B. The Borrower will take the necessary steps
to obtain assistance of an experienced
ship repair firm for drafting terms of
reference for market and engineering
studies for ship repair facilities.


﻿24                                                S
Dates by which measures
shall be completed, ex-
cept as the Borrower and
the Association shall
otherwise agree                                       Measures to be taken
June 1                               C.    The Borrower will employ experts acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association for the
purpose of carrying out the above
mentioned market studies for ship repair
facilities.
July I                               D.    The Borrower will appoint a committee
to review the existing customs regulations
and procedures and their enforcement,
with the participation of interested
Government agencies and users, in order
to attract traffic to Nouadhibou through
improved customs services.
September 1                          E.    The Borrower will set up an overall man-
power plan for the port and maritime
sector. The plan will include:
(i)         determination of staffing needs;
(i)         job descriptions;
(iii)       training programs; and
(iv)        procedures for transfer of maritime
personnel from one Government
Department or agency to another.
With respect to item (i), the Borrower
will be assisted by the Advisors referred
to in paragraph A. above as regards the
review of PAN's staffing resources and
needs and by the manpower specialist
provided under the Development Credit
Agreement No. 459 MAU (Education Project)
as regards manpower resources and re-
quirements in the fishing and maritime
sectors in Mauritania.
November 1                           F.    The Borrower will appoint a full-time
and adequately trained Director to the Port
December 1                          G.    The Borrower will consult with the
Association on the conclusions of
the market study referred to in
paragraph B. above and review with the
Association the steps required to carry
out the engineering studies.


﻿25
Dates by which measures
shall be completed, ex-
cept as the Borrower and
the Association shall
otherwise agree                                       Measures to be taken
H.    The Borrower will consult with the
Association on the conclusions and
recommendations of the committee
referred to in paragraph D. above.
1977
April 1                             1.     The Borrower will, on the basis of
the studies and recommendations of
the Advisors referred to in paragraph
A. above, issue port user regulations
including, inter alia, general
conditions for granting licenses and
concessions.
J.    The Borrower will cause PAN to issue
licenses stipulating, inter alia:
(i)         the type and quantity of
equipment to be used for
port operations;
(ii)        the amount of fees to be
paid to PAN;
(iii)       the productivity levels to
be achieved; and
(iv)        the penalties to be applied
in case these productivity
levels are not achieved
by the specified dates.
July 1                              K.     The Borrower will consult with the
Association as to the implementation
by PAN of the recommendations of the
Advisors under paragraph A.(i).
L.    The Borrower will consult with the
Association as to the implementation
by PAN of the recommendations of the
Advisors under paragraph A.(ii).
October 1                           M.    The Borrower will cause PAN to evaluate
the results achieved in the implementation
of the recommendations referred to in
paragraph K. above.


﻿26
Dates by which measures
shall be completed, ex-
cept as the Borrower and
the Association shall
otherwise agree                                       Measures to be taken
N.    The Borrower will cause PAN to evaluate
the results achieved in the implementation
of the recommendations referred to in
paragraph L. above.
0.    The Borrower will take or cause PAN to
take all necessary measures for the
productivity of fishing Port operations,
including loading of frozen fish, to be
increased by at least 30% in relation
to the average productivity during the
last quarter of 1974.


