r      _mcnz Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5701-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 4, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units = Guinean Franc (FG)
US$1.00        =  FG 360 a/
FG 1.00        =  US$0.0027
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA     -         Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en
Afrique (Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
CA        -         Centrale d'Approvisionnement (Input Supply Center)
CBPP      -         Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia
CCCE      -         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DGE       -         Direction Generale de l'Elevage
SPE       -         Direction Prefectorale de l'Elevage
FAC       -         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IRBAG     -         Institut de Recherches et de Biologie Applique de la
Guiriee (Central Vaccine Production and Diagnostic
Laboratory)
MDR       -         Ministere du Developpement Rural
(Ministry of Rural Development)
PE        -         Poste d'Elevage (Livestock Post)
RP        -         Rinderpest
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/   The official exchange rate at appraisal in April 1985 was US$1 = sylis
24.4. From October 1985, the Guinean currency, which was changed from
the syli to the FG, has been floating according to a market-determined
rate, which at the time of negotiations on March 12, 1985, stood at
US$1 = FG 360



FOR OFFMCAL USE ONLY
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE.......................         iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNKR  ...................................*      v-vii
GUINEA AGRICULTURE DATA SR  r .................................      viii
I.  INTRODUCTION ......... ...................................          1
II. BACKGROUND        ..............................................    1
A.   The Economy       1........................................ 
B.  Agricultural Resource Base ..........................          2
C.  Agricultural Sector Issues and Strategy .............          3
III. THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR ....................................          5
A. Population Characteristics             ..                       5
B.  Animal Productivity and Health ......................          6
C. Institutional Structure               ..                        7
D. Sector Financing and Taxation            ..                    10
E.  Sector Objectives and Investment Program ........... .        11
F.  Experience in Past Lending ..........................         12
G.  Sector Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement...          13
IV.  THE PROJECT .............................................         14
A.   Objectives ........     ...............................      14
B.  Sunmiary Description ................................         14
C.  Detailed Features          ... ............                   15
1.  Establishment of Herdsmen's Associations .......         15
2. Livestock Inputs                ..                        17
3. Pilot Credit Scheme             ..                        18
4.  Upgrading of Public Livestock Service ..........         19
5.  Training .......................................         19
6.  National Vaccination Campaign Program ..........         20
7.  Technical Assistance ............................        21
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission consisting
of Ms. Nguyen and Messrs. Sinodinos and Fayd'Herbe (IDA). Secretarial work
was done by Ns. Playfair-Scott and Matos.
This document ha a sticted dstbuto and may be umd by recipents only in the performance
of thw okcui duieL Its contents may not othrwie be dcksed without World Bank auQhriaon.



(ii,
Table of Contents (Continued)
D.   Project Cost and Financial  Arrangements ..............               22
1.   Project Cost ....................................               22
2.   Project Preparation Facility .....................              22
3.   Financing .......................................               24
4.   Procurement .....................................               25
5.   Disbursements ....................................              27
6.   Special Account and Revolving Fund ...............              27
7.   Financial Procedures, Reporting and Audits .......              28
E.   Project Implementation ................................               30
1.   Organizational Structure .........................              30
2.   Training Program .................................              31
3.   Organization of National Vaccination Campaign ....              32
4.   Staffing Plan ....................................              33
5.   Staff Rationalization Program ....................              33
6.   Distribution and Sales of Livestock Inputs .......              34
7.   Pilot Credit Administration ......................              34
8.   Implementation Schedule and Building Construction               35
9.   Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles ............              35
10.   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................              35
11.   Present Status of Credit Effectiveness ...........              35
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...                36
A. Production ..............                                               36
B.   Marketing and Prices .................................                36
C.   Herdsmen Incomes and Incentives ......................                38
D.   Cost Recovery ........................................                39
VI.  BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, AND RISKS .....................                41
A.   Project Benefits ......................................               41
B.   Economic Analysis .....................................               41
C.   Risks ................................................                42
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................                 42



(iii)
Table of Contents   (continued)
ANNEXES
4-1       Livestock Inputs
4-2       Pilot Credit Scheme
4-3       Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
4-4       Summary Cost Table
4-5       Disbursement Schedule
4-6       Organizational Structure
4-7       Training Program
4-8       Staffing Plan
4-9       Implementation Schedule
5-1       Parameters Used in Herd Projection
5-2       Project Impact
5-3       Herdsmen's Incomes
6         Economic Analysis
MAP
IBRD 18990 R



(iv)
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR RHABMILITATION PROJECT
DOCUHMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Project Working Papers (Available from UAPA A)
Code No.
1.  TECHNICAL
1.1  Training Activities                             229.417 (1)
1.2 Vaccination Program
1.3 Livestock Inputs
1.4 Herd Projection                                  229.417 (4)
2.   PROJECT COST TABLES                                   229.418
2.1 Upgrading DGE
2.2 Upgrading SPEs
2.3 Input Supply
2.4 Technical Assistance
2.5 Staff Training
2.6 Vaccine Production Unit
3.   FINANCIAL PLANNING AND CONTROL                        229.419
4.  ECONOMIC ANALYSES                                      229.420
4.1 Economic Analysis Table
4.2 Sensitivity Analysis
5.   TERMS OF REFERENCE - RESIDENT SPECIALISTS             229.421
6.   LEGAL DOCUMENTS
6.1  Arrete to cancel Vaccination Tax                229.423
6.2  Arrete to reorganize DGE                        229.424
6.3 Arrete to attach the Vaccine Production
Laboratory to DGE                               229.425
6.4  Ordonnance to create Input Supply Center        229.426
B.   Additional Supporting Documents (Available from WAPA A)
1.  Preparation du Second Projet du Developpement
de l'Elevage (2 volumes)                              229.422 (1-2)
2.   Livestock Development Project (IDA Credit No. 1063)
3.   Supervision Reports (IDA Credit No. 1063)
4.   Project Completion Report (IDA Credit No. 1063)



Cv)
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:      Republic of Guinea
Beneficiary:  NIinistry of Rural Development
Amount:        SDR 8.5 million (US$9.8 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard.
Cofinanciers:  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE),
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and Banque Arabe de
Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA).
Project
Description:   The project would increase the productivity of the Guinean
cattle herd and thereby augment national meat and milk
production, improve nutrition, and raise the standard of
living of cattle-herding families. It would be implemented
over five years and would include: (a) support for the
privatisation process of livestock service through: (i)
establishment of herdsmen's associations; (ii) creation of
an Input Supply Center for the production, purchase,
distribution, and sales of livestock inputs; (iii) provision
of a small pilot credit component for the establishment of
private veterinarians throughout the country, for setting up
animal production farms, for herdsmen's associations, and
for distribution of livestock inputs; (b) strengthening of a
reduced public livestock service through: (i) upgrading the
infrastructure of the central livestock department in
Conakry and 33 field offices and provision of equipment.
vehicles, and basic materials; (ii) establishment of a
training center in Labe with a capacity for 40 students for
recycling training of selected livestock staff, practical
training of livestock agents nominated by herdsmen's
associations and training of representatives of herdsmen's
associations on group development; (iii) provision of
fellowships for external training of high level staff, and
(iv) provision of equipment and vehicles for annual national
vaccination campaigns against common cattle diseases; and
(c) provisions of about 19 staff-years of internationally
recruited specialists and 39 staff-months of short-term
consultants to assist in project implementation, carrying
out studies related to the sector, and preparing a possible
follow-up project.



(vi)
Benefits and Risks:
By the tenth year of the project. national beef production vould
increase by 302 or 5.900 tons per annum, and milk by 402 or 11.900 tons per
annum, representing a significant improvement in national protein intake-.
Net income of herdsmen from cattle is expected to increase by 302. Through
the establishment of herdmen's associations, the creation of the Input
Supply Center, and the pilot credit scheme, the project would pave the way
for eventual privatisation of livestock service. Through its institutional
and training measures, the project would enable a more effective usage of
the Government's livestock services. The project involves no major
technical risks.  The main risks are related to: (i) the implementation of
the staff rationalisation program, and (ii) the willingness of livestock
owners to participate in the project. On the former, risks would be
minimized by the agreement to be reached under the national staff
rationalization scheme, a key feature of the Go7ernment's structural
adjustment program. With the liberalization of the cattle market,
financial incentives for herdsmen to participate are judged to be
attractive. Furthermore, they are aware of the benefits of using
veterinary services and inputs and would be willing to pay for them. Thus,
the risk would be minimal.
Estimated Cost:
Summary Project Cost Estimate
(US$ millions)
Local    Foreign   Total
Livestock Inputs                             0.1      2.3        2.4
Pilot Credit Scheme                          0.1      0.9        1.0
Upgrading of Livestock Service               0.7      3.8        4.5
Training                                     0.3      2.0        2.3
Vaccination Campaigns                        0.1      0.9        1.0
Technical Assistance                         0.0      4.0        4.0
Supervision of Construction                  0.0      0.3        0.3
Total Base Cost                          1.3     14.2       15.5
Physical contingencies                       0.2      0.9        1.1
Price Contingencies                          0.9      4.1        5.0
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes)                         2.4     19.2      21.6
Taxes                                    0.6      0.0        0.6
Total Cost
(inc. taxes)                           3.0     19.2      22.2



local   Foe     ) Mtal
M&                                  -      9.8      9.8
COCE                                -      3.8      3.8
FAIC                               0.1     1.3      1.4
-      4.5      4.5
(bCezz.eit                         2.6      -       2.6
Beficiaries                        0.1      -       0.1
Total                            2.8    19.4     22.2
Fstlmted ID lAs:
ID Fscal Year
1987    1988  1989 1990  1991  1992  1993
U S$  -ll{
Axzial                 1.18 1/ 1.47  2.45 2.15  1.77  0.68  0.10
ommlative              1.18    2.65  5.10 7.25  9.02  9.70  9.80
I/  Tncbxfn refinancing of a FPF advane of iS$465,000
Economic Rate of Return:   14Z
Map: IBRD 18990R
WAPA A
May 1986



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Guinea (GOG) has requested assistance from the
Association to finance a Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project designed
to improve the productivity of Guinean livestock and thereby augment
national meat and milk production, and raise the incomes of livestock
owners. The project would be implemented ove-; five years at an estimated
cost of US$22.2 million. The project would be co-financed by France's
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and Fonds d'Aide de
Cooperation (FAC) and Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en Afrique
(BADEA).
1.02      The proposed project is a modification of a previous Livestock
Development Project (Credit GUI-1063 of September 1980) which became
effective in July 1981. It was then cancelled in September 1983 on the
ground that the Government had not taken measures to remove forced
marketing of cattle and to offer adequate incentives to herdsmen for sale
of their cattle. In April 1984, the new Government requested the
Association to reactivate the project since the marketing constraint was
removed and the herdsmen are now free to sell their cattle in the market.
In view of the positive development of cattle marketing and pricing policy,
the preparation of the proposed p.oject was undertaken. The project was
prepared by the GOG with the assistance of a consulting firm, the Bureau
pour le Developpement de la Production Agricole (BDPA, France).
II.  BACKGROUND
A.   The Economy
2.01      Guinea has an area of about 246,000 km , a population of about
5.9 million and a per capita GNP of about US$300, among the lowest in the
world. Despite excellent agricultural and mineral resources (bauxite and
iron ore), economic performance has been poor since Independence (1958),
except for a short-lived impulse to growth during 1973-76 due to the
opening of two bauxite mines. The slow growth of the Guinean economy (1.6%
per annum from 1979-83) is attributable primarily to the low level of
productive investment, the misallocation of public investments and the poor
performance of the public sector. Guinea is currently facing serious
balance of payment and debt servicing problems. At the end of 1985,
external debt arrears were US$300 million, representing 50% of annual
export earnings.
2.02      Guinea's long-term development possibilities are substantial
based on its agricultural, fisheries, mineral, and hydroelectric potential.
However, with 80% of the population in the rural sector, and with modest
national savings (about 9.4% of CDP in 1983) combined with an acute



- 2 -
shortage of foreign exchange, the exploitation of this potential hinges on
the country's ability to provide incentives to agricultural producers and
to actract foreign capital for investment in mining, agro-industry, and
eventually, petroleum development.
2.03      During the 1980s Guinea will continue to face a serious foreign
exchange constraint, despite the starting of the operation of a diamond
mine in 1984. Exisring mining operations have few prospects for expansion
in the coming years, and the downward trend in agricultural exports will be
hard to reverse immediately. At present, Guinea is excessively dependent
on bauxite mining for its foreign exchange. Diversification of its mineral
production is thus a key element in the country's longer-term development
strategy. Iron ore mining is one possibility now under active investiga-
tion, as are oil exploration and development of other minerals.
2.04      The Government has commenced to implement an economic reform
program aimed at further encouraging private sector development, notably in
agriculture, while at the same time increasing the efficiency of the public
sector and improving resource management. Particularly crucial is a major
devaluation, with accompanying measures to correct price distortions, and
thereby reform the structure of agricultural incentives.   The authorities
are also introducing rigorous budgetary measures and the rational
programming of public investments. To reverse the previous regime's
economic policies, the new authorities have opened up the economy to the
private sector and have taken steps to reduce the scope of the Government's
direct involvment in the productive sectors. To reduce its external debt
burden, Guinea concluded a multilateral debt rescheduling (approximately
US$180 million of debt including arrears and service payment for the period
of January 1986 to February 1987) with the Paris Club in April 1986. The
Government's economic reform program has gained support from the f!F
Standby Arrangement (US$36.3 million) and the Structural Adjustment Credit
from IDA (US$25 million) and SFA (US$17 million) in February 1986.
However, once the Government embarks on major reforms, Guinea would face a
difficult transition period during the rest of the 1980s when increased
foreign assistance, on concessional terms, would be needed to ease the
balance of payments difficulties and contribute to a gradual realization of
the country's considerable development potential.
B.   Agricultural Resource Base
2.05      Guinea has arable land of about 7.0 million ha which accounts for
28.5% of its total territory of about 24.6 mijlion ha. The country can be
divided into four main agro-ecological regions with principal
characteristics as follows:
(a)  Middle Guinea encompasses tne upland plateau known as the Fouta
Djalon at altitudes from 600 to 1,500 meters and, to the north,
the low'and plains of the Gaoual and Koundara regions. It covers
20% of the country's area. Rainfall varies from 1,500 to
2,000 mm. In many areas, soils have been eroded, hardpanned or
degraded and can only be used for the cultivation of fonio, the



-3-
region's staple food. Rice, vegetables and miscellaneous food
crops are found in the tapades (home gardens) and hydromorphic
bottomlands, which contain richer soils for intensive
cultivation. N'Dama, trypano-tolerant cattle, are raised in
large numbers and are the region's main asset. They account for
51Z of the aational cattle herd.
(b) Maritime or Lower Guinea covers 18% of the country. It consists
of a swampy coastal zone behind which lies a plain rising slowly
to the foothills of the Fouta Djalon. Annual rainfall varies
between 2,000 and 4.000 mm. Swamp rice, coconuts and kola nuts
are the main crops in the coastal zone, while bananas, pineapple,
citrus, and vegetables are grown in abundance in the piedmont.
The cattle population is only 152 of the national herd. However,
the region has abundant pasture resources which have induced
increasing permanent settlement of traditional cattle owning
families from the Fouta Djalon.
Cc) Upper Guinea, covering 40Z of the country's total area, is a
savannah region with a rolling landscape of terraced plateaux
which lie between 200 and 400 meters above sea level. Rainfall
is relatively low at 1,300 to 1,700 mm per annum. Rice, cassava
and groundnuts, the major crops, are cultivated under rainfed
conditions or uncontrolled flooding along the rivers. This
region has considerable agricultural potential under controlled
flooding and irrigation. Pasture resources are plentiful
resulting in heavier animals than in Fouta Djalon. The cattle
population is about 26% of the national herd.
(d) The Forest Region comprises 22% of Guinea's land area. It has an
equatorial climate with rainfall varying from 1,700 mm in the
north to 3,000 mm in the south. Located at the south-eastern tip
of Guinea, it is fairly isolated from the rest of the country. A
mountainous relief, culminating at 1,600-1,700 m of altitude,
renders communications and transport of produce difficult. The
lush tropical forest that once covered most of the region has
been extensively cleared and now offers a limited potential for
logging. Tne region has an excellent potential for smallholder
oil palm. Cattle are of less significance in the region which
con'ains only 8% of the national herd. Meat is supplied
primarily from small ruminants.
C. Agricultural Sector Issues and Strategy
2.06      Agriculture is the mainstay of the country's economy, providing a
livelihood to about 80% of the population and generating about 40% o' GDP.
Agricultural production over the past two and a half decades has
deteriorated. Agricultural exports, while accounting for the bulk of
Guineas's total exports in 1958, are now reduced to a negligible amount.
At the same time, food crop production has not kept pace with the increase
in population. Rice imports, which were 7,000 tons in 1958, reached 96,000



- 4 -
tons in 1984, with total food imports representing 16% of the general
import bill. This picture of stagnating production and mounting import
requirements is in marked contrast with Guinea's agricultural potential.
Its abundant water resources and varied topography and soils are capable of
satisfying all of the country's needs for food crops and to produce greater
quantities of coffee, cocoa, oil palm products, coprah, pineapples and
livestock for local processing and export.
2. 7      The most critical factor impeding development of Guinea's rural
sector had been the lack of incentives for producers.  In line with
Guinea's post-independence move towards a centrally planned economy, the
marketing of agricultural and consumer goods was taken over by the state.
Farmgate prices were set too low in relation to the prices of consumer
goods and subsequently, in an effort to reduce its import bill, the
Government limited the supply of consumer goods. Little incentive was
therefore provided for production beyond family requirements, and
production reverted to subsistence farming, with very little output being
sold to the state. A "parallel" market developed in all commodities with
prices substantially higher than official prices and with smuggling of
agricultural produce such as coffee and livestock to neighboring countries
in exchange for consumer goods which were then sold on the parallel market.
Prices on the parallel market were as much as five to eight times as high
as official prices reflecting a similar degree of overvaluation of the
Guinean currency. The parallel market, however, had insignificant stimulus
on the rural sector as a whole, as opportunities to trade in tnis market
were limited. This incentive problem was aggravated by the pattern of
investments in agriculture during the past years. Directed to collective
farming and parastatal agencies as the vehicle to promote agricultural
development, the results had been dismal as most of the funds available
were used to pay salaries with very little returns.
2.08      After the change of government in April 1984, Guinea adopted
a free trade economy with strong emphasis on the private sector. Notably
among its first specific policy changes was the abolition of some state
marketing agencies and the Ministry of Collective Farming and the removal
of transport barriers to movement of goods between regions. The
Government's new policy direction and the specific changes already made are
fully in line with the Association's recommendations as set out in the
Agricultural Sector Review (Report No. GUI-4672, 1984).
2.09      The main objectives in the rural sector, as they are evolving
under the new regime, are to promote cereal production for food
self-sufficiency, increase export production, and raise the standard of
living of the rural population. Because of the several years of neglect of
agriculture, a number of issues remain to be resolved to permit an
expansion of rural sector activities. These include: (a) inappropriate
pricing and marketing policies for agricultural products; (b) the complete
absence of effective and functional agricultural services (extension,
research, input, supply and credit) for farmers; (c) an overstaffed
ministry with poorly trained personnel and ill-adapted structures; and (d)
inadequate financial resources to permit a proper functioning of



- 5 -
agricultural services. The new leaders have appealed to the donor
community and in particular to IDA to help them resolve these issues and
revive growth in agriculture. The Association has responded to the demand
through various lending instruments as described below.
2.10      The Association's lending strategy for agriculture is oriented
towards increasing productivity of smallholders and individual livestock
owners while creating durable sector institutions in both the public and
private sectors. The Association is pursuing dialogues on both macro and
micro-economic policies to provide incentives for agricultural import
substitution and exports through the Structural Adjustment Credit (para
2.04). Lending activities in the sector would focus on proven technology
to be applied to adaptable areas on the one hand, and strengthening the
administrative and technical capability of the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment (Ministare du Developpement Rural, MDR) on the other hand. A
Gueckedou Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1635-GUI, US$6.7 million
of November 1985) supports the agricultural development in the Gueckedou
region with technology proven under the First Rice Development Project
(Credit 952-GUI of September 1979)* and the Agricultural Services Project
(Credit 1636-GUI, US$7.6 million of November 1985) aims at improving the
capability in planning, policy formulation and project analysis of NDR. A
study, financed by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance, on the
reorganization of the agricultural supporting services and long-term
development of the rural sector is being undertaken by MDR with the
assistance of consultants. Together these interventions support the
Government's institutional objective of promoting the rural sector by
unleashing the productive energies of Guinea's smallholders, making them
primarily responsible for their own livelihood with minimum state
intervention. Once the details of this strategy have been worked out and
agreed, an expanded IDA agricultural lending program, working closely with
other donors, is planned.
III. THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
A.   Population Characteristics
3.01       Livestock Numbers and Distribution.  Livestock and in particular
cattle are an important element of Guinea's rural economy. Livestock
resources comprise about 1.6 million cattle, 450,000 sheep, 445.000 goats,
40,000 pigs and five million chickens. Of the total cattle population,
about 51% are kept in Middle Guinea, 26% in Upper Guinea, 152 in Maritime
Guinea and about 8% in the Forest Region (para 2.05). The regional
distribution of sheep and goats is similar to that of cattle. Pigs, on the
other hand, are concentrated mainly in the Forest Region. Poultry are
raised throughout the country.
3.02      Breeds.  The cattle population consists almost entirely of the
N'Dama breed, the only significant exceptions being along the border with
Mali where some crossbreeds between N'Dama and Zebu are found. The N'Dama



- 6 -
is a humpless hardy breed with moderate fertility and milk production. The
N'Dama's most outstanding characteristic is its relative trypanosomiasis
and streptothricosis tolerance. Trypanosomiasis, a disease transmitted by
the tsetse fly, can be found in most humid parts of Africa which represent
about one-third of the continent. Streptothricoasis is a skin disease
prevalent in hot and humid climate. The N'Dama breed, which is thought to
originate from Guinea's upland plateau, the Fouta Djalon, has therefore
become much sought after by countries that wish to introduce N'Damas so as
to utilize the untapped forage resources in humid tropical regions.
3.03      Management Systems.  About 160.000 families or 30% of Guinea's
rural population, are rearing livestock. The ownership of cattle, sheep
and goats is well distributed with an average herd size of 10 cattle, 5
sheep and goats. Thus, while a few cattle owning families with larger
herds tend to have higher than average incomes, for most livestock owners'
family incomes are about the average or slightly above the average for the
rural sector. The small size of the typical herd means that practically
all livestock owning families also grow crops which are usually their
primary source of income. Herds are generally sedentary; animals are
grazed in the bush or on crop residues during the day and are tethered near
the homestead at night and during the rainy season. Some transhumance is
practiced in the western part of the Fouta Djalon where forage resources
are limited during the dry season. Cattle are reared for milk, meat and
draft purposes with the importance of each function being partly dependent
on locality. Thus, in the Fouta Djalon, milk is a particularly important
product as is meat, but usage of work oxen is less prevalent. In Upper
Guinea keeping cattle for draft purposes may be the primary motive.
Throughout the country, livestock rearing is a means of storing capital for
use in emergencies or for gifts at weddings and other occasions. Cattle
are, therefore, highly prized possessions and, within the constraints posed
by the general lack of adequate veterinary and animal husbandry support
services, are generally carefully tended by their owners.
B.   Animal Productivity and Health
3.04      Herd Composition and Productivity.  Herd composition for a 15
animal herd would typically be as follows: 4 cows, 2 calves, 2 heifers and
2 males (steers, bulls or oxen) and 5 sheep and goats. Productivity is
low. Calving for heifers does not generally occur until four years of age
and the subsequent calving rate is only 56% with a calf mortality of 34%
resulting in a weaning rate of less than 37%. The mortality rate among
young stock aged 1 to 2 years Is about 11% and the mortality rate among
reproducing cows is about 5%. As a result of internal parasites, the lack
of mineral supplements and generally poor disease control services, the
population of the country's herd is estimated to grow slightly and annual
liveweight gains for young stock aged 1 to 3 years usually do not exceed 40
kg per animal with herd offtake estimated at about 9.5%.
3.05      Animal Health.  The poor status of animal health is the main
constraint to livestock productivity and growth. Major health hazards
found in cattle are contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP), anthrax,



- 7 -
blackleg, pasteurellosis, internal and external parasites and
trypanosomiasis. In sheep and goats, they are internal and external
parasites and pasteurellosis. In poultry, they are newcastle disease and
coccidiosis.
3.06      CBPP was endemic in Guinea causing an estimated 4,000 deaths
annually, mainly in the Upper Guinea and Forest Region. Further spread of
the disease to Middle Guinea and Maritime Guinea was prevented by control
of animal movements.  However, a few cases of CBPP have been reported
recently in the western half of the country along the northern border.
Rinderpest (RP), a major cattle disease, has not been reported in Guinea
since the sixties. However, recent outbreaks in neighboring countries such
as Senegal and Mali can cause potential problems to Guinean cattle
population. The possibilities of renewed outbreaks in Guinea must be
continually guarded against.
3.07      Anthrax, blackleg and pasteurellosis occur throughout Guinea
although their incidence is lower in the Forest Region. Internal and
external parasites cause the most serious overall economic losses to the
livestock sector, resulting in low liveweight gains, reduced fertility, low
milk production and reduced draft animal efficiency. Trypanosomiasis
infested tsetse flies are found all over Guinea and particularly in Upper
Guinea. The disease itself is a problem for all weak animals for which the
inherited trypanosomiasis tolerance of the N'Dama becomes insufficient.
Finally, the newcastle and coccidiosis diseases, when occuring, can wipe
out the poultry population in the affected area.
C. Institutional Structure
3.08      The Livestock Administration. The Ministry of Rural Development
(MDR) is responsible for the development of the rural sector, including
livestock. The organization chart of the MDR is shown on the following
page. The General Directorate of Livestock, headed by a General Director
(DG), is directly responsible under the MDR General Secretary for all
activities related to livestock. The state farms at Famoyla, Dinti,
Kalaboui, the selection center at Boke, and the bee keeping center at Labe
also come under the supervision of the Directorate. The livestock vaccine
production laboratory of Kindia is attached to the Research and Biology
Institut of Guinea which is under the Ministry of Scientific Research since
1985. Responsibility for training of veterinary and livestock productimo
personnel is shared with the Ministry of National Education.



-8 -
GUINEA
UVESrOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ministry of Rural Development
W  rERAL|
DEVEU         l                l                l
FF-~
G    ASE r O r                                        OL SERVIES 1
SESASTATE EO L                                  A33   J
DEVELOPKMEM ____
CaEk DIETOAGE-ERL DIECTORATE                                          GNRL IEr
*RURAL ENGINEERING  |OF AGRIOJLTURE   l|                                 OF UVErO( 
| PREFECrORAL DlRECrO S CE
|OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
L;;;;; iL ~SERVKCES|
OF LVESrOCK t33] 
LlVESTOWl POBon(3=522|
Worcld Bank-30522-1



3.09      The General Directorate of Livestock (Direction Generale de
l'Elevage, DGE) is responsible for supervising field activities of 8
provincial inspectors and 33 regional offices ("Service Prefectoral de
1'Elevage", SPE). Under each SPE, field services are organized by
sub-prefectures (about 335) which each typically covers about 70,000 ha.
Staffing in a SPE would usually consist of the Chief, a Deputy, one or two
high level staff, one or two controllers (middle level staff) and a
"monitor" (low level staff), and for the sub-prefectoral level, a
controller and one or two monitors. The field based livestock service
comes under the general political and administrative umbrella of the
sub-prefectoral administrators and the provincial Governor, but supervision
of technical matters is under the DGE.
3.10      Infrastructure and equipment for the livestock services are very
inadequate at present. The DGE is housed in a rented delapidated building
and lacks transport facilities and most basic furnishings and equipment.
Similarly, regional headquarters for each SPE are in need of repair or in
many cases, resiting and rebuilding. Sub-prefectoral staff generally do
not have constructed offices; the equipment, materials and medicines being
kept in the house of the field staff concerned. Field staff do not have
means of transportation nor the most basic equipment and materials for
treatment of diseases. Drugs, medicines and mineral licks are virtually
unobtainable. Field activities have been mainly restricted to irregular
vaccination campaigns and annual censuses; the latter has created mistrust
between herdsmen and livestock agents as it was the basis for forced
marketing, and it was still used for taxation purpose.
3.11      Training of Livestock Staff.  Guinea has two intermediate level
livestock training colleges and three higher level facilities. The former
provide three year courses after which about 40Z go on to tr. year courses
at the latter and eventually become senior staff level. The rest enter the
service immediately as controllers or assistants. Cadres with secondary
school education can also be employed directly into the service as menitors
and are expected to gain experience while on the job. About 60 senior
staff have also studied abroad and some 75 staff are under training in
various external institutions. From 1976 to 1984 the livestock education
system has produced about 1,400 high level and middle level staff. They
have been absorbed in the administrative services of livestock,
agriculture, education and ex-Ministry of Collective Farming.
3.12      The quality of livestock education is inadequate.  Most of these
institutions lack even the most basic library, laboratory and practical
training facilities. One of the schools is even located in the forest
region where cattle raising is not a primary occupation. The subject
matter of courses lack practical orientation and they frequently cover
topics which are only marginally relevant to Guinean livestock sector
needs.



- 10 -
3.13       Recruitment of Livestock Staff.  In the past, the Government's
system of mass education and of guaranteeing employment to graduates from
its educational institutions has created serious overstaffing in the public
services. In 1984, there were about 1,050 technicians in the livestock
service, of which 33% are high level staff (Level B), 43% middle level
(Level D and C), 12Z lower level (monitors), and 12% trainees. Only 30% of
the staff are appointed to the field services. In addition, since the
recent abolition of the Ministry of Collective Farming, about 600 livestock
technicians are being integrated into the livestock services. Another 450
technicians are under training and about 200 would likely be absorbed by
the services. By late 1985, the staffing level of the livestock services
would likely reach 1,800. Yet, it is estimated that the requirement for
livestock services is about 620 (para 4.46). This staff redundancy is one
of the main causes for diminishing operational funds and as a result, the
livestock services have become ineffective. The budgetary implications for
the Government are serious.  The annual wage bill grew from sylis 77
million in 1983 to more than sylis 160 million in 1985.
3.14      The Government is aware of this problem and has taken some
significant measures to limit further expansion of public employment. It
has stopped, until 1990, enrollment in all institutes training rural sector
technicians. Students in the first two years in the agro-pastoral
institutes are expected to be reoriented to other sectors and students
under training to be veterinary doctors would become animal husbandry
officers. On the national level, civil servants about 55 years old with
more than 18 years of services are required to retire. Under the economic
reform program which the IDA Structural Adjustment Credit supports, the
Government has decided to freeze recruitments and will begin to reduce
civil service staffing levels in 1986. The proposed project would also
introduce pilot measures that would support the Government's efforts in
dealing with this problem (para 4.12).
D. Sec-or Financing and Taxation
3.15        Funding of the livestock sector is made primarily through the
national budget, which finances about 90% of sector expenses. This source
is supplemented by the regional budgets which finance some operating costs
and some temporary low level staff positions. In 1983 the national budget
provided an estimated sylis 86.8 million towards sector related expenses of
which over 90% -- about sylis 77.5 million -- went towards salaries
leaving, for the entire sector, only sylis 9.3 million, for the purchase of
equipment, materials, veterinary products and maintenance of buildings
(fuel was financed separately). Receipts from the sector stem primarily
from the "vaccination tax" which provided sylis 3.9 million in 1983.
Collection was based on an annual census conducted by the livestock
services which was also used as a basis for estimating vaccination needs.
Theoretically, other forms of taxation also exist (for instance, the
slaughtering tax) but collection against these has not been effective. The
sector cost recovery policy would be addressed under the project (paras
5.06-5.0(9).



- 11 -
E. Sector Objectives and Investment Program
3.16      The average per capita consumption of meat in Guinea is about
half of other countries in Africa. The Government's primary objective in
the sector is to increase national meat production, in particular for urban
consumers who are partly supplied by imported meat. In addition, the
Government recognizes the nutritional value of the national cattle herd's
milk production, the significance of livestock rearing on the livelihood of
a substantial portion of Guinea's population, and the current and potential
benefits from animal traction. The potential to further these objectives
is good since a large proportion of the population has experience in
keeping cattle and other forms of livestock. Furthermore, the N'Dama breed
is highly suited to prevailing environmental and husbandry conditions, and
in most areas there are sufficient pasture resources. A major constraint,
however, is the lack of adequate veterinary and animal husbandry support
services.
3.17      Efforts to improve the animal health situation in Guinea have to
date concentrated on vaccination programs against the prevalent cattle
diseases in eastern Guinea (Upper Guinea and the Forest Region). The
financing for the vaccination programs have come from UNDP/FAO (Projects
GU17402, GUI78012 and GUI78013) and the Association (the Livestock Develop-
ment Project, Cr. 1063-GUI of September 1980). The results of these
programs are as follows:
Historical Animal Vaccination Programs in Guinea
Financed              Year                  Number of Animals
b_y                                          Vaccinated
CBPP        Rinderpest
UNDP/FAO               1975             106,973             -
UNDP/FAO           1976-77              252,475             -
UNDP/FAO           1977-78              126,607             -
UNDP/FAO           1978-79              407,576           58,981
UNDP/FAO           1979-80              234,340           43,937
UNDP/FAO           1980-81               97,994            2,580
UNDP/FAO           1981-82              153,860           33,000
IDA/Gov't          1982-83              109,969            -
FAO/Gov't          1983-84               94,981          109,031
3.18      Except for 1978-79, the vaccination coverage has been
disappointing. This could be explained by the following factors. The
campaign so far has been organized and operated from a base at Kankan with
mobile teams, led by veterinary officers. They travelled to each ar.a on a
schedule advertised ahead of time. ThiE method has not worked so well as
the vaccination period lasted for a long time, and the lack of
telecommunication made it difficult to supervise the travelling schedule of
the mobile teams. The organization of the vaccination campaign would be
addressed under the proposed project (paras 4.44-4.45). The second factor



- 12 -
was due to the forced marketing policy and the vaccination tax which had
created mistrust between livestock officer and the herdsmen. As a result,
the herdsman did not bring the cattle for vaccination for fear that his
herd would be recorded and that he would be obligated to pay tax and to
sell 10% of his herd at an official price about one third of the market
value. The forced marketing policy was removed after the change of
government in April 1984. Furthermore, limited financial resources have
also restricted the coverage of the campaign.
F. Experience with Past Lending - The Livestock Development Project
3.19      The Livestock Development Project (Credit 1063 GUI, SDR 13.3
million) was designed to help the Government achieve sector objectives. It
also aimed at helping individual livestock owners through low cost
investment and institutional strengthening. The Association approved the
Credit on September 9, 1980 and it became effective on July 31. 1981.
Disbursements were suspended in April 1983. and the undisbursed amount (SDR
11.7 million) was cancelled on September 12, 1983.
3.20      The cancelled project involved the strengthening of animal health
services throughout the country. Its major activity was to carry out
national vaccination campaigns against two major cattle diseases
(rinderpest and CBPP), and the sale of livestock inputs (medicines,
vaccines and mineral licks) to herdsmen. The project also supported the
development of infrastructure and training aimed at strengthening the
national livestock services. The Credit contained conditions requiring
policy changes affecting marketing, vaccination taxes and overstaffing
which were to be fulfilled by December 1981, a date later changed to June
1982. The project encountered important local cost financing and
implementation constraints from the beginning. Government was asked by IDA
in April 1982 to delay signing several contracts, until the financing and
implementation problems had been resolved. One of the implementing
agencies whose role had been subject to change at negotiations was not
performing as had been expected. Some local production of vaccine took
place in 1982 and a vaccination campaign was carried out. Livestock owners
however still had to deliver a number of animals (equivalent to a tenth of
their herd) to the State Livestock Marketing Agency (Entreprise de
Commercialisation du Betail, ENCOBE) at a very low official price which,
together with the vaccination tax, would have dissuaded farmers from making
full use of the project in the future. In view of the lack of progress on
the marketing issue in particular, IDA detailed certain actions it would
like to see take place on marketing before December 1982 and July 1983 with
the liberalisation of the cattle trade by December 1983. However, the
Government did not take appropriate action and following further
discussions and a mission in March 1983. cancellation of disbursements and
subsequent cancellation of the Credit followed as noted above (para 3.19).
3.21      As a result, very little was achieved under the project compared
to what had been intended. Only the vaccine laboratory was equipped, some
vaccines produced and the first phase of the 1982-83 vaccination



- 13 -
campaign carried out, affecting about 95,000 animals. Design of all
buildings was completed and the contract for their construction vas
awarded. However, construction was not carried out. Project disbursements
amounted to SDR 1.43 million of IDA funds and about sylis 7 million
of local funds. The main disbursement under the project was for technical
assistance which was maintained until July 1983.
3.22      Since the project barely started, it has had no impact on
livestock production and owners' incomes. It has however made the
Government more aware of livestock problems and the importance of economic
issues. Only 15 days after the change of Government in April 1984, the new
leaders took steps to deal with the problem of livestock marketing. It
abolished ENCOBE and requested the Association to reactivate the Credit.
In view of this positive development and the change in the new Government's
policy that would likely contribute to a healthier economic environment for
the sector, the Association agreed to the preparation of a new project.
Lessons learnt from the cancelled project has been fully incorporated in
t'- proposed project. They include conditions related to policy issues,
project organization and the availability of local counterpart funds.
G.   Sector Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.23      As in many other Sub-Saharan countries, the Government of Guinea
controls all essential livestock services. They include policy
formulation. general administration, operation of research facilities and
diagnostic laboratory, treatment of animals, and distribution of livestock
inputs. Government services have been ineffective so far due to the poor
personnel management, leading to low productivity. Lack of control on
personnel number- has led to increasing wage bills and inadequate funding
of operating costs as the Government has been unable to find additional
funds for both. At the same time, the livestock owners are increasingly
aware of the benefits in controlling common diseases and in the use of
drugs, and they are prepared to pay for the services themselves.
Consequently, some consideration is being given to reorganizing livestock
services, with increasing reliance on the initiatives of the private
sector.
3.24      The permanent settlement of the Guinean herdsmen and their
interest in livestock are conducive to a reorientation of the livestock
services to the private sector. Furthermore, the liberalization policy of
the new Government in Guinea is in accord with such a change. However,
under the Guinean conditions where the experience of'the private sector is
limited due to a quarter of a century of suppression, where basic
infrastructure is virtually non-existent, and where transport facilities
are highly inadequate, the entrustment of animal health and husbandry to
the private sector will have to be developed gradually. The proposed
project would aim to achieve this objective through a two pronged approach:
(a) by introducing and supporting the privatisation process in the
development of the livestock sector; and (b) by strengthening a reduced
public livestock service and reorienting it to tasks of public interest



- 14 -
such as general vaccinations against epidemic diseases, research and
extension.
3.25      The Association's involvement through the proposed project is
essential in helping the Government implement the new strategy and to
rehabilitate a sector with significant potential to contribute to the
growth of the economy. More importantly, it would help set out concrete
examples for the reduction of public sector employment, decentralisation of
public sector activities, and the privatisation process which are the
Government's main preocupations in restructuring the economy.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The major objective of the project would be to increase the
productivity of the Guinean livestock thereby augmenting national meat and
milk production and improving nutrition, and also, raising the standard of
living of livestock-owning families. This would be achieved through simple
measures: vaccination against common cattle diseases; provision of
medicines, and mineral licks; and upgrading of the livestock husbandry and
veterinary support service. The project would also attempt to create an
environment conducive to the privatisation of livestock services and
provision of inputs. If successful, this could be adopted on a wider scale
under future projects.
B.   Summary Description
4.02      The proposed project would have a country wide coverage.  It
would be implemented over five years and would include:
(a) Support for the privatisation process through:
(i)       the establishment of about 45 herdsmen's associations
to enable them to employ their own agents for simple
animal health treatments and saies of livestock
inputs. To provide incentives for the formation of
associations, the project would provide for training of
the associations' nominated agents, and support for the
associations' initial stock of livestock inputs;
(ii)      the creation of an Input Supply center ("Centrale
d'Approvisionnement"- CA) at Conakry for the
production, purchase, distribution and sale of
livestock inputs such as vaccines, medicines, and
mineral licks. As the private sector initial interest
in the supply of livestock inputs is limited, the state



- 15 -
would be mainly responsible for the CA's operations in
the beginning of the project. However, the
participation of the private sector, particularly that
of the herdmen's associations in CA would be permitted;
and
(iii)     the provision of a small pilot credit component for the
establishment of private veterinarians throughout the
country, for setting up animal production farms, for
herdsmen's associations, and for distributing livestock
inputs.
(b) Strengthening of a reduced public livestock service through:
(i)       the construction and renovation of buildings for the
central department in Conakry ("Direction Generale de
l'Elevage" - DGE) including the Diagnostic Laboratory,
22 Prefectoral Directorates ("Service Prefectoral de
I'Elevage - SPE), and provision of equipment, vehicles
and basic materials to DGE, 33 SPEs and 320 livestock
posts ("Poste d'Elevage" - PE);
ii)       the establishment of a training center in Labe with a
capacity for 40 trainees for recycling training of
about 240 livestock staff during project implementation
period; training of livestock agents nominated by
herdsmen's associations; and training of
representatives of herdsmen's associations on group
development;
(iii)      provision of fellowships for external training of high
level staff; and
(iv)      provision of equipment and vehicles for annual national
vaccination campaigns against common cattle diseases.
(c)  Provision of about 19 staff-years of internationally recruited
resident specialists; and about 39 staff-months of short-term
consultants to assist in project implementation, carry out
studies related to the sector, and prepare a possible follow-up
project.
C.   Detailed Features
1.   Establishment of Herdsmen's Associations
4.03      To decentralize animal health and husbandry services and to move
towards the privatization of livestock services, the project would attempt,
on a pilot basis, to establish herdsmen's associations. On average, each
association would consist of about 700 herdsmen, owning about 7,000 cattle



- 16 -
and 4,000 sheep and goats. These associations would be created in the form
of non-profit making entities and would not be liable to taxation. The
objectives of the association include purchases and distributions of
livestock inputs to members, provision of veterinary services, and
marketing. The management of each association would be entrusted to an
executive committee to be elected by members. The revenues would be made
up essentially of the members' contributions, government's subsidy, grants
as well as incomes from their own sales of inputs. The associations would
have access to credit for investments that can be jointly owqned and used by
the group. Members would be jointly liable for the associations' debts.
4.04      Under the project, each association would nominate its own agent
who would be trained (para 4.14) to perform simple treatments of animals
(i.e. vaccination, castration, etc.) and to be responsible for purchases
and sales of livestock inputs to the association's members. The
establishment of the association would be legalized by the approval of the
statute by the concerned Prefet in each prefecture. An assurance was
obtained from Government that the draft model statute would be prepared and
would be available for IDA review and comment by June 30, 1987.
4.05      To provide incentives for forming groups, the established
association would receive an initial stock of livestock inputs including
medicines and mineral licks, free of charge from the Input Supply Center
("Centrale d'Approvisionnement", CA) (para 4.08). The size of the stock
would vary according to the number of cattle in the association but it
would not exceed an amount about US$3,500 equivalent. Sale proceeds from
the initial stock, including a profit margin of about 15% (para 4.50) would
constitute a revolving fund for the association. It would then be used for
stock replenishment, for payment of services of livestock agents, and for
forming capital of the association.  In addition, the project would provide
for a small pilot credit fund of about US$200,000 for the associations to
invest in infrastructure, and productive facilities such as stores, water
points, etc. (para 4.12).
4.06      As the establishment of the herdsmen's associations would be a
new experience in Guinea, the project would provide for the service of an
internationally recruited expert to work exclusively on group development
for about three years. He would be assisted by a Guinean staff who would
eventually take over the task. He would work directly with the herdsmen in
forming groups, draft the model statute for the associations, and help
train livestock staff and the associations' representatives in matters
related to group development.  He would be s'ationed in the training cen:er
compound (para 4.15) in Labe. He would help start herdmen's associations
in the Fouta Djalon (Labe province) and would work in other parts of the
country after gaining experience from the few first groups. It is expected
that about 6 groups would be in operation by PY2, 16 by PY3, 30 by PY4, and
45 by PY5. Associations have been started in projects in a similar manner
elsewhere in Africa (Mali, Senegal, Central African Republic), and
experience indicates that when groups are created for economic purposes
such as those indicated above, they often work and continue after the
withdrawal of support from project authority. Furthermore, as Guinean



- 17 -
livestock owners are generally sedentary and take pride in rearing cattle,
the establishment of associations for economic purposes is likely to
succeed.
2.   Livestock Inputs
4.07      At present, sales of livestock medicines and mineral licks are
virtually non existent in Guinea. The limited available medicines are
often given free to herdsmen by the administration, and mineral licks, an
important product for weight gains, increasing milk production and
fertility are not widely utsed. This has been a disincentive for the
private sector to buy and sell livestock inputs. Furthermore, other
factors such as uncertainty in the economic stability of the country, non-
convertibility of the local currency, and inadequate transport and
infrastructure have also hampe-red private interest in importing and
distributing livestock inputs, although the Government has eliminated its
monopoly in this domain.
4.08      The improvement in animal health and husbandry services would
only be effective with the increasing availability of livestock medicines
and inputs. Given the limited governmental financial resources, this could
only be made possible by the participation of the private sector. The
project would help create an environment that would encourage private
interest. It would establish an Input Supply Center ("Centrale
d'Approvisionnement" - CA) for the procurement and distribution of inputs.
The enactment of a satisfactory statute for the creation of CA would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness. In the beginning, the state would have
to be the sole owner due to limited private interest. However, private
participation should become possible during project implementation as the
economic situation and prospects improve. Therefore, the operation and
management of CA would be reviewed annually between the Government and IDA
to examine the possibility of a take over by the private sector. A
detailed description of the statute of CA, the assumptions made in
calculating the required livestock inputs, including the expected evolution
in the numoer of livestock owners participants in the inputs program, and
the forecasts cash flow of the CA over the first 10 project years are given in
Annex 4-1.
4.09      The project would rennovate an existing warehouse located near
DGE to be used by CA for storage purpose. Because of many other demands on
Guinea's limited foreign exchange, the project would also finance the
purchase of livestock invuts for CA for a four-year period. The
accumulation of sale proceeds, by the end of that period, estimated at FG
570 million (US$1.6 million equivalent) would be used to finance the
initial stocks of inputs for associations to be created after project
completion. It would also be used for stock replenishments, including
incremental purchases beyond the project implementation period. By that
time, it is expected that the macro-economic and foreign exchange situation
will have improved, and the replenishment of imported livestock inputs be
less of a problem. To the extent possible, delivery of livestock inputs to
sale points (para 4.49) would be contracted to private sector and the cost
of private transport has been included in the project cost. The CA would



- 18 -
be provided with a truck and a pick up for direct delivery when contract
with private sector is not readily available.
4.10      CA would import most medicines except for vaccines which would be
produced by the vaccine production laboratory in Kindia. With financing
from UNDP/FAO before 1980. the Association through Credit 1063 (paras
3.19-3.22) in 1982-83, and UNDP in 1983-84, this laboratory has been
upgraded to a modern facility capable of handling the vaccine production
requirements for the proposed project. The main constraint to the
production is the availability of regular electricity and water. The
project would finance the installation of a voltage stabilizer, a hydraulic
tank, and some basic laboratory materials.   The vaccine production
laboratory is currently an integral part of a larger laboratory fcr
diagnosis of human disease ("L'Institut de Recherches et de Biologie
Applique de la Guinee" - IRBAG) (para 3.08). The Government has issued a
decree on April 7, 1986 to transfer the administration and all related
infrastructure of the vaccine production laboratory to MDR. This would
allow the unit to function independently in response to the need of the
livestock sector. The unit would be provided with an internationally
recruited specialists under the project (para 4.18) to help supervise the
production process.
4.11      1ineral licks would be produced in a small workshop to be located
at Coyah, where the main raw material for their production, salt, is
readily available. The workshop would consist of a simple building which
would house a simple mixer and a small warehouse (about US$70,000).  The
personnel would consist of four persons who would be hired and paid by DGE
during the transitional period until it could be incorporated into the CA,
and taken over by the private sector (para 4.08).
3.   Pilot Credit Scheme
4.12      In order to facilitate the privatisation of livestock services,
the project would include a small pilot credit component for the following
activities:
a)   Ioans for setting up private veterinarian practices.  These
loans would be given to qualified veterinarians,
particularly those retiring from public livestock services.
The amount of each loan would not exceed US$8,000 each and
the total US$170,000. The program is anticipated to begin
in PY2 to involve about 25 participants by PY5.
b)   Loans for setting up animal production farms (cattle, sheep,
goats etc). These loans would be given to qualified
persons, particularly to those retiring from public
livestock services. The amount for each loan would not
exceed US$10,000 and the total US$500,000. The program is
anticipated to begin in PY2 to involve about 50 participants
by PY5.



- 19 -
c)   Loans for herder groups for the construction of storage,
water points, dipping tank etc. The amount of each loan
would not exceed US$10,000. The program is anticipated to
begin in PY2 to involve about 20 groups by PY5.
d)   Loans for setting up retail shops, pharmacies for the sales
of livestock medicines, small veterinary equipment, and
mineral licks. The amount of each loan would not exceed
US$3,500. The program is anticipated to begin in PY2 to
involve about 40 participants by PY5.
Financing terms and conditions would vary depending on the type of loans.
The rate of interest, however, should range between 8% to 12Z. On average,
the portfolio would have an interest of 10%. Detailed descriptions of the
criteria for each type of loan and some cash flow models are presented in
Annex 4-2. Experience from this pilot component would help build up a
larger credit program in future projects, which would be carried ou: by the
banking system currently under reform.
4. Upgrading cf Public Livestock Service
4.13      While private veterinarian services are being developed,  the DGE
would play an important role in improving anlmal health and provision of
inputs. However, the present staffing level would be greatly reduced from
about 1,800 to 620 (para 4.48). Because of the compLete lack of basic
infrastructure and non-availability of alternative accomodations, the
project would provide for the construction of a building of about three
stories for the DGE in Conakry. The building would cover an area of about
300 m2 and would consist of offices, a confereuice room and a diagnostic
laboratory. Of the 33 SPEs needed under the :,roject, about 13 would be
newly constructed and 9 would be rennovated. Each would cover on area
about 88 m2 and would consist of offices anc a small storage facility for
livestock inputs. The project would also finance vehicles, equipment and
operating costs of DGE, and the 33 SP.s and 320 PEs.
5.   Training
4.14      To respond to the need for upgrading the professional knowledge
and practical skills of the livestock staff and to provide support for the
privatisation process of livestock service, three types of training would
be provided under the project: a) upgrading skills of livestock staff
through intensive recycling courses in the country and fellowships for
external training of senior staff; b) practical training of agents of
herdsmen's associations in simple treatments of animals such as
vaccinations, castrations etc; and c) management training for herdsmen's
representatives (President, Secretary, Treasurer). Additional informal
training would be provided through periodic seminars and on-the-job
collaboration with the project's specialists internationally recruited
under the project.



- 20 -
4.15      To support the training effort, the project would provide for the
construction of a center in Labe. Existing training facilities are
inadequate, unsuitable for the objectives of the nationwide project. The
center would have a capacity of up to 40 trainees at anv one time and would
consist of two classrooms, a simple laboratory, offices, and a printing
shop for producing technical brochures and learning materials. Because of
the lack of alternative accommodations in the area, housing would be
provided for the Director of the center and the two internationally
recruited specialists, and a guest quarter for visiting lecturers. The
center would also have a small demonstration animal farm (cattle, sheep,
goats and chicken) and a shed for storing equipment and feed. The project
would also provide basic materials, equipment, and vehicles for the center
and funds for the occasional services of internationally recruited
trainers.
4.16      The project's fellowship program would be designed to upgrade the
skills of middle and upper level Guinean staff through participation in
training programs abroad. Funds have been provided for about 20 medium
term (one year) fellowships and 30 shorter term visits or courses
(typically one to three months), and would cover all offshore costs (e.g.
travel expenses, accomodation, training fees, books and pocket money). The
medium term fellowships would generally cover formal training courses
offered by appropriate institutions or universities. Shorter periods
abroad could be used for more condensed ccurses or for visits to livestock
research centers or to relevant livestock development projects and programs
in other animal husbandry and tropical veterinary medicine; other project
needs - for training techniques, monitoring and evaluation techniques and
sector planning - would also be provided for. An assurance was obtained
from the Government that it would require trainees benefitting from
fellowships to stay in the service at least two years after their return.
6. National Vaccination Campaign Program
4.17      The project's vaccination program would aim at providing
countryside prophylactic coverage against the major cattle health hazards
posed by diseases such as contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP), and
rinderpest (RP). The program would aim to cover about 600,000 vaccinations
against CBPP and 160,000 against RP per year, representing about 38% and
10% of the herd size, respectively. The vaccinations, however, would cover
at least 80% of the herd in the affected areas. The planning and
coordination of the national vaccination campaign would be carried out by
two separate bases under the overall direction of the DGE. The western
base would be located in Labe and the eastern base in Kankan. Each base
would be stocked with vehicles, spare parts, gasoline, freezers and
necessary vaccines. The Labe base would be constructed in the same
location as the SPE and the training center. It would consist of offices,
a garage, and workshop for vehicles maintenance and simple repair. The
existing SPE in Kankan would be refurbished and enlarged to include
facilities similar to the Labe base.



- 21 -
7.  Technical Assistance
4.18      Seven international specialists would be recruited to assist
Guinean cadres in specialized activities for which local expertise is
limited. In all, 19 man-years of technical assistance are required (Annex
4-3). These positions are: (i) a livestock specialist with project
management experience to assist the DG in technical matters for three and a
half years. He would be appointed as Technical Director; (ii) a financial
analyst with former experience in project financial and administrative
matters for four years. He would be appointed as Financial Director; (iii)
a training specialist with experience in the livestock sector for the
project's training programs for three years. He would be appointed as the
Training Program Director; (iv) a specialist with experience in setting up
herdsmen's associations for three years (para 4.06); (v) a laboratory
specialist for vaccine production for two years (para 4.10); (vi) a
specialist for diagnostic laboratory for one and a half years, and (vii) a
specialist in the input supply system for two years. These staff would
initially perform their responsibilities as line managers in their
assignments and increasingly function in an advisory role in the later
years so as to provide a smooth transition of responsibilities. In order
to encourage the transfer of specialists' expertise to Guinean cadres,
terms of reference (TOR) would place strong emphasis on the capacity of the
expatriates to assist counterpart staff to acquire their skills and specify
hand-over dates of their initial line responsibilities.
4.19      The project would also provide for the employment of an architect
who would supervise construction works during the first two years of the
project. About 39 man months of additional specialists on a short term
basis has also been provided under the project. Such services would cover
project needs as they materialize and would be discussed and agreed during
the course of project supervision. Likely areas requiring supplementary
consultant assistance would be agreed upon during project implementation
(Annex 4-3) and would likely include: services of specialists for
diagnostic laboratory in Conakry (para 4.13), livestock regulation, studies
in agro-pastoralism. animal genetics, slaughter houses, pastoral watering
points, small ruminants, and preparation of a follow-up project.
4.20      All technical assistance staff (except for the resident vaccine
laboratory specialist), and about 19 staff-months of consultants would be
employed according to procedures acceptable to CCCE and FAC. Their terms
of references, however, would be agreed with IDA and their appointments
would be consulted with IDA. The terms of employment of the vaccine
laboratory specialist and about 20 man-months of short term consulting
services that would be financed by IDA would require IDA approval and would
be through procedures satisfactory to IDA. An assurance to this effect was
obtained during negotiations.



- 22 -
D. Project Cost and Financial Arrangements
1. Project Cost
4.21      Total project costs are estimated at US$22.2 million (US$21.9 net
of tax) of which US$19.2 million (FG 6.9 billion), or 87% are in foreign
exchange. Total project cost is summarized on the following page, with a
yearly breakdown in Annex 4-4.
4.22      Project costs were estimated in dollars for all imported goods
and services and in FG for local costs. Conversion between dollars and FG
has been at the exchange rate of FG 360 to the US dollar. Vehicles and
equipment cost estimates include allowances for an initial stock of spare
parts. Cost estimates do not include local staff salaries, as the proposed
project would not create incremental employment. Project costs also
include operating costs and livestock inputs required during project
implementation period.
4.23      Base costs are expressed in September 1985 terms.  Physical and
price contingencies were calculated as follows:
a.   Physical Contingencies              % of Base Cost
Buildings                                15
Vehicles, Equipment, Materials           10
Livestock Inputs                         30
All other costs                          10
b.   Expected Price Increases (Annual rates)
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Foreign Costs (Z)     7.0      7.0     7.5     7.7      7.6     4.5
Local Costs (Z)       20.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0
2.   Project Preparation Facility
4.24      To allow for a quick start up of project activities during the
first year of the project, a project preparation facility advance of



SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
X of           Foreign as
US$ Million                            F6 Million                     Base Cost        I of Total
Foreign      Local   Total              Foreign    Local    Total
1. Input Supply                                  2.3       0.1       2.4               031.6      21.1    852.7                 15.3             97.5
2. Pilot Scheae                                  0.9       0.1       1.0               331.2      33.1    364.3                  6.5             90.9
3. Upgrading of Central Services                  1.2      0.2       1.4               428.4      77.5    505.9                  9.0             04.7
4. Upgrading of Field Services                   2.6       0.5       3.1               946.9    165.8   1112.6                  19.9             85.1
5. Staff training                                2.0       0.3       2.3               712.8    122.7    835.5                  14.9             85.3
6. National Yaccination Campaign                 0.9       0.1       1.0               316.9      56.4    373.2                  6.3             99.8
7. Technical Assistance                          4.0       0,0       4.0              1440.0       4.4   1444.4                 25.9             99.7
E. Supervision of Construction                   0.3       0.0       0.3               122.4       0.9    123.2                  2.2             99.4
TOTAL BASE COST                                 14.2       1.3      15.5              5130.0    491.9   5611.9                 100.0             91.4
Physical contingencies                        0.9       0.2       1.1               313.2      57.3    370.5                                  79.1
Price contingencies                           4.1       0.9       5.0              1479.6    321.3   1800.9                                   82.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST (net of taxes)               19.2       2.M      21.6              6922.8    860.5   7783.3                                   98.7
Taxes                                         0.0       0.6       0.6                 0.0    216.0    216.0                                    0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSI (including taxes)            19.2       3.0      22.2              6922.8   1076.5   7999.3                                   86.3
:::::::::::S:::::SS:  ZS X= =                           5||:::a::



- 24 -
US$390,000 was granted to finance the following:
(a) services of an architect for the design of all buildings under
the proposed project: US$75,000;
(b) funds for a study on financial procedures and control, including
the service of an internationally recruited expert for six weeks,
the operating costs during his visit in Guinea and provisions of
printed materials: US$30,000;
(c) base line survey of the livestock development in Guinea,
including the service of an internationally recruited expert for
three months, purchase of a vehicle and operating cost for three
months: US$60,000;
(d) funds for the vaccination against common cattle diseases (CBPP
and Rinderpest) for 1985, including the purchases of three
vehicles: US$45,000. The Government would provide additional
four vehicles and their operating cost (about FG 7.0 million);
(e) technical assistance (6 man-month) and operating costs for the
process of reducing livestock services staff: US$100,000;
(f) technical assistance for the establishment of the charges for
inputs and services by public livestock service (two man-months):
US$30,000; and
(g) contingencies of about US$40,000.
4.25      The Bank has recently carried out a fishery sector review which
identifies the immediate need for developing a strategy for the sector,
particularly the approach for negotiating with potential foreign fleets
fishing in Guinean waters. A provision of about US$75,000 is therefore
included under the project preparation facility to finance the service of
an internationally recruited expert for about six months to help Guinea
define the development strategy and investment plan for the fishery sector,
including negotiating fishing licenses, resource assessment program
formulation, and national fishing fleet development.
3. Financing
4.26      Financing of total costs would be shared in the following amount
and proportion by expense category.



- 25 -
L~PI
(tE$ udflim)
M_   ?AlA   CCCE  FAC  Gbw't   Bmef.  Total
Ctrtsuwctns      -     4.5    -      -     1.1      -     5.6
Veikles         1.4    -    0.6    -       0.2      -      2.2
Fqu#pEnt        0.9    -    0.4    -       0.3      -      1.6
L!eStOs   Iuts  3.0    -       -     -    0.1       -      3.1
Tec Asst.       1.5    -    2.1   1.3    -          -      4.9
Fellordi1$s     0.8    -       -     -      -       -     0.8
cpEtieng cbst    1.3    -    0.5    -      0.9      -     2.7
Pilot Credit
Progran         0.9    -    0.2   0.1    -         0.1    1.3
9.8   4.5   3.8   1.4   2.6    0.1   22.2
4.27      CCCE would finance US$3.8 million equivalent for the foreign cost
of equipment and operating costs for the I be training center, light
vehicles, the pilot credit component for hei:ders' associations, and all
resident technical assistance except the vaccine specialist (to be financed
by IDA), and the technical director, the livestock association specialist
and the training expert (to be supplied by FAC, US$1.3 million equivalent).
BADEA would finance US$4.5 million equivalent for the foreign cost of
buildings. IDA would finance US$9.8 million for livestock inputs, other
vehicles, equipment for ether project entities, short-term technical
assistance and the vaccine production specialist, overseas training, and
pilot credit for veterinarians, production farms and input suppliers, and
advance for the Project Preparation Facility (para 4.24). Effectiveness of
financing agreements between the Government and the CCCE and the FAC would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness. Proceeds of the IDA Credit for the
pilot credit component would be onlent to a commercial bank at an interest
rate of 5% for a period of 15 years. including 4 years of grace. The
Government would bear foreign exchange risk but the commercial bank would
assume collection and repayment risk.
4. Procurement
4.28      All goods and services financed under the project would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines except specific items being
financed by co-lenders which would be procured under their own procedures.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below, with the
figures in parentheses showing respective amount to be financed by IDA.



- 26 -
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Total
Procurement Item    ICB        Int'l. Shopping      Other      N/A       Costs
Building             5.6                             -          -         5.6
Vechicles & Spares  1.6                             0.6 a/      -          2.2
(1.4)                            -          -        (1.4)
Equipment            1.0             0.2 b/         0.4 a/      -         1.6
(0.9)             -              -          -        (0.9)
Livestock Inputs    3.1                              -          -         3.1
(3.0)             -              -          -        (3.0)
Tech. Asst.          1.5 c/            -            3.4 a/      -         4.9
(1.5)                     -      _                   (1.5)
Fellowships                                          -         0.8        0.8
--   -  (0.8)       (0.8)
Incr. Op. Costs               -                      -         2.7 d/     2.7
_-   -  (1.3)       (1.3)
Pilot Credit                                         -         1.3        1.3
_       -o(0.9)     (0.9)
Total Costs          12.3            0.2            4.4        5.3       22.2
(6.3)            -              -        (3.5)      (9.8)
a/ Financing would be by CCCE and FAC procedures.
b/ Furniture and equipment spread over time and difficult to regroup into
larger packages.
c/ Employment of consultants would be in accordance with IDA guidelines.
d/ Including purchases of fuel and lubrificant, labor and materials for
maintenance of buildings and equipment.



- 27 -
5. Disbursements
4.29      The schedule of disbursements (Annex 4-5) is based on the Guinean
disbursement profile slightly amended for factors known to cause
divergence. 1/ Project disbursements show much the same pattern as the
standard profile, but start at a slightly higher level because of the
prefinancing of activities that would allow a quick start-up of project
implementation. Furthermore, awards for civil works would be available
before Credit effectiveness which would allow for timely implementation of
the construction program. Disbursements against incremental operating cost
would be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). Documentation of
SOEs would not be submitted to IDA but held by DGE for review by IDA
supervision missions and auditors. All other disbursements would be fully
documented. The dP-bursement categories would be as follows.
Allocation and Disbursements of IDA Credits
(US$'000)
Category       Item            Amount         Percent of Expenditures
to be Financed
1            Vehicles &
Spare Parts    1,300          100Z of foreign cost
2            Equipment          800         100% of foreign cost
3            Livestock
Inputs         2,800          IOOZ of foreign cost
4            Technical
Assistance       900          100Z of foreign cost
5            Fellowships        700         100% of foreign cost
6            Pilot Credit
Program          800          100Z of goods and
services financed under
the credit
7            Operating Cost  1,100          502 of the total cost
8            Refinancing PPF   465
9            Unallocated        935
9,800
6. Special Account and Revolving Fund
4.30      Most foreign expenditures would be financed by IDA through direct
payments. Some foreign exchange would, however, be necessary primarily for
the financing by the Government of certain smaller items and materials
purchased directly for the project and for the intermittant financing of
costs involved in some fellowships and short term consultant services.
1/ This profile also matches the disbursement profile of a similar
livestock project under the same country conditions, the Iture Livestock
Development Project (Cr. 697-ZR) which was approved in May 1977 and closed
in June 1983.



- 28 -
A Special Account (SA) in foreign exchange equivalent to US$100,000 would
therefore be established in a commercial bank for these purposes
immediately after Credit effectiveness through a withdrawal of this amount
from the IDA Credit. IDA would replenish the SA upon receipt of evidence
of disbursements from the fund for allowable expenditures. Should any
disbursements be made from the SA that are not acceptable to IDA,
Government would be responsible for replenishing the SA in the
corresponding amount. Monitoring of disbursements against the SA would be
facilitated by the requirement that all withdrawal requests would be fully
documented and would be accompanied by monthly statements of the SA giving
details of all withdrawals and deposits as well as the opening and closing
balance of the account.
4.31      To assure reliable local counterpart funding of the project, a
local currency Revolving Fund (RF) would be established at a commercial
bank in Conakry. Requirements in local currency would be estimated
half-yearly and would form the basis upon which the local currency account
in Conakry would be maintained. Assurances were obtained from Government
during negotiations that the local currency account would be replenished
quarterly on the basis of supporting documentation for expenditures
incurred and cash need forecasts made by project management in order to
have sufficient funds to meet local expenditures for the next six months.
Opening of the local currency RF as well as the Government's payment of its
initial deposits of FG 108 million (US$0.3 million) equivalent to six
months needs in local funds, into the RF would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
7. Financial Procedures, Reporting and Audits
4.32      The project's financial planning and control functions would rest
upon appropriate budgetary procedures and accounting system supported by
annual audits. The budgetary procedures include a Long Range Planning
(LRP) for a period of four years and an Annual Budget exercise which would
be carried out by DGE under the supervision of the internationally
recruited Financial Director (para 4.18). The LRP and Annual Budget
reports would be submitted to the Association for information. The
accounting system v-ould include both financial and cost accounting with
particular emphasis upon inventory control and unit cost of production.
The latter would be of importance for the provision and sales of livestock
inputs under the project. Because no proper accounting system currently
exists, a study was carried out using the PPF advance (para 4.24) and a
system acceptable to IDA would be established prior to Credit
effectiveness. DGE would keep separate accounts for the project.
Accounting for (a) livestock inputs, (b) vaccine production, and (c)
mineral lick production would be kept separate from the accounts for other
project expenditures. Payments received by livestock service staff from
sales of inputs would be deposited in the regional banks and subsequently
transferred to a central account earmarked for the Input Supply Center.



- 29 -
4.33      Project reporting procedures would be the responsibility of the
Monitoring and Statistics Division of DGE (MS) (para 4.36) which would
arrange for the provision of appropriate information from the key
departments responsible for the project. Such reports would be produced
annually and quarterly and would be designed to provide a management tool
with which to monitor the progress of the project, make improvements where
appropriate, and plan for the future requirement of the project. Sound
financial reporting would be a key element of these reports and would be
handled, in liaison with the MS, by the Finance and Administration
Division.
4.34      The project's annual report would be produced not later thar
March 31 of each year, three months after the end of the preceding
financial year (January 1 to December 31). The report would contain a
description of the past financial year's activities, achievements realized,
and a comparison against targets set at appraisal and at the beginning of
the year. Targets established for the current financial year would also be
contained in the report together with expected targets for the following
financial year. The report would be accompanied by an estimated budget for
the current financial year separated by main cost items, and detailed
costings for the previous financial year. The report would be sufficiently
detailed to provide a meaningful assessment of the past year's progress and
of financial, managerial, staffing and technical needs by project
sub-activity during the current year.   Brief quarterly reports would be
produced within two months of the end of each quarter and would provide
snmmary financial information together with key comparative information
concerning the project's physical progress, and also continually updated
forecasts of forthcoming project needs (equipmet, materials, veterinary
inputs, staff etc.) and their financial implications. The quarterly
reports would form the primary tool for short and medium term planning of
project implementation and would form the basis for allocating sufficient
local currency reserves from the national budget and for procurement
planning. The annual and quarterly reports and their associated accounts
would be made available to IDA within the time durations specified above
and would form a basis for discussions with the Government concerning
project progress, ongoing needs and future orientations. The above
procedures were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
4.35      Project accounts would be audited by a qualified independent
agency under procedures satisfactory to IDA and an audit report would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each financial year. The
audit report would include specific verification of the legitimacy of all
expenditures utilizing the foreign exchange Special Account (para 4.30).
An assurance on the above was obtained from the Government during
negotiations.



- 30 -
E. Project Implementation
1.   Organizational Structure
4.36      All project activities would come under the overall authority of
the DGE whose organizational structure is given in Annex 4-6. Under the
General Secretary of MDR, there would be an General Director of Livestock
who would be responsible for controlling the activities in the sector.
Under him, there would be the Deputy Director of Livestock who would be
mainly responsible for detailed implementation of the project's activities.
There would be two main departments in DGE. A department of Administration
and Finance, headed by a Financial Director, would handle project finances,
accounts, procuremeu.:, ersonnel and credit. A Technical department,
headed by a Technical :gxrector, would consist of four main divisions: a
Monitoring and Statist_.cs division responsible for collection of
statistics; monitoring project activities, and preparation of quarterly and
annual reports; a Training division to coordinate training activities in
the sector; an Animal Husbandry division to deal with issues related to
animal selection, husbandry practices, range management, herd management
and the mineral licks workshop in the beginning of the project (para 4.11);
an Animal Health division would be responsible for coordinating the
national vaccination campaign, the [india vaccine productions laboratory in
the beginning of the project (para 4.10), inspection of all products
related to the sector (meat, canned fish and meat etc.), and the diagnostic
laboratory.
4.37      At the provincial level (8), there would be Provincial Inspectors
who would supervise and coordinate activities of all Prefectoral Services
(SPEs) in their respective provinces. At the prefectoral level, there
would be 33 SPEs, each headed by a Prefectoral Service Chief. Each SPE
would be staffed with a Deputy Prefectoral Service chief, an accountant,
and a meat inspector. At the sub-prefectoral level, there would be about
320 Livestock Posts (PEs).
4.38      PEs would operate as general extension officers covering not only
the treatment of sick animals but also general husbandry practices,
nutrition and genetic improvement. Each PE would be responsible for
providing services to about 700 herdsmen, owning about 7,000 cattle, some
4,000 sheep and goats, and a few pigs and chickens. Except for about one
and a half month during the rainy season (May-October) when he would be
mobilized for the vaccination campaigns against CBPP and Rinderpest, each
PE would systematically organize his work program. He would establish a
contact berdsman for a group of 20-30 herdsmen. He would visit the contact
herdsman regularly on one designated day every fortnight and would cover
two groups each day. He would treat sick animals and advise herdsmen on
purchase of required medecines and husbandry practices.
4.39      The main role of SPEs would be to supervise and to support field
activities of PEs. In addition, each SPE would also be responsible for the
ordering, storage, distribution and accounting of the livestock inputs, and



- 31 -
meat inspection when private interest in the livestock services is being
developed. The SPE Chief would be responsible for the overall
administration of livestock activities in his prefecture while the Deputy
Chief for supervising PEs' activities. On average, each Deputy would
supervise about ten PEs. He would visit one or two PEs once each week to
ensure that the work program is carried out, and to provide professional
guidance and resolve problems, if required. The Chief of each SPE would
report directly to the Technical Director with copies of his report to the
Provincial Livestock Inspector. The Technical Director would visit each
SPE at least once a year. The Government has issued an arrete to
reorganize DGE as detailed above. An assurance was obtained from the
Gowernment that any change in the organizational structure that would
affect project execution would be agreed with IDA.
2. Training Program
4.40      The training program (Annex 4-7) proposed under the project would
take into account two factors: (a) formal training of livestock staff has
been weak and there has been no follow-up training; and (b) the
privatisation process would require support from the training component.
4.41      Recycling training would be provided for existing livestock staff
particularly aiming at upgrading the practical skills of lower level staff
working at the sub-prefectures in direct contact with herders. The staff
would be selected on the basis of an aptitude test to ascertain the level
of knowledge, the ability of reasoning, reflection and expression. The
courses would be intensive (generally 4-5 months) and would cover a wide
range of subjects such as animal hurbandry and genetic improvements,
treatment of diseases, extension methods, communication skills, group
organization and monitoring of project activities. The trainees would be
working in the field periodically to put in practice the theoretical
training received in the classroom. At the end of their training, they
would return to their former posts and would receive follow-up training on
specific subject matters at SPE headquarters. Practical training for
nominated agents would last about one week at the Labe training center and
the courses would be customized according to the need of the group.
Updated training and training on specific subject matters would be provided
periodically for one day at SPEs.  Training on group developmant woul; be
about one day at SPE and would concentrate on the operation of a herdsmen's
association.
4.42      Higher level staff would receive fellowships for training abroad
(para 4.14). Administration of the fellowship program would be handled by
the DGE in liaison with the General Secretary, MDR. Identification of
training needs and selection of candidates would be handled by a small
committee of senior staff which would report to the General Secretary, HDR.
4.43      Detailed planning and implementation of the training program
would come under the responsibility of an internationally recruited
training specialist with experience in the livestock sector and who would
be designated as the Training Program Director. He would be assisted by



- 32 -
the specialist on associations and a small group of teaching and
demonstration staff in Labe. Forward planning for the recycling training
center and fellowship program would be facilitated by the preparation of an
annual plan that ,ould be presented to the Association for comment and
approval at least two months before the start of each fiscal year. An
assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations. At the same
time, the necessary flexibility for both the training center and fellowship
programs would be retained through appropriate modification during the
course of project supervision. It is expected that beneficiaries of the
training program would be scheduled as follows:
Schedule of Training under the Project
(Number of Trainees)
Internal Training       PYI    PY2        PY3     PY4    PY5    TOTAL
Livestock Staff          -       40       40     80       80     240
Herder Groups'
Agents                          10       10      10      10      40
Herder Groups'
Representatives        -        10       15     20      25       70
External Training
Fellowships
Medium-term            6         6        6      2      2        22
Short-term             6         6        6      6      6       30
3.   Organization of National Vaccination Campaign
4.44      The planning and coordination oZ the national vaccination
campaign would be carried out from two separate bases under the overall
direction oi DGE (para 4.17). Each base would have a Coordinator who would
have full field responsibility for the day-to-day operation of his staff,
the supply and storage of vaccines, and liaison with the DGE, SPEs and the
CA. He would also plan and coordinate the utilization of the base
transport facilities among the SPEs.
4.45      Each director of SPE would be solely responsible for organizing
and supervising the vaccination program in his respective prefecture. His
staff would carry out the vaccination progran with materials and transport
from the bases. Most vaccinations would take place in the rainy season
from May to October, about 15 days in each prefecture, when the animals
would be kept in enclosures. After the end of each annual campaign,
vehicles and unused materials would be returned to the bases. Vaccinations



- 33 -
in the dry season would take place from November to April only in remote
areas not accessible during the rainy season and for calves under six
months. This would be limited and would be carried out with vehicles and
staff of each SPE.
4. Staffing Plan
4.46      A staffing plan for the public livestock services is provided in
Annex 4-8. It includes 109 high level staff (Class B), 120 medium level
staff (Class C), and 345 low level staff (Class D/E) in the administration.
In addition, there are about 47 staff who are seconded to work in projects
financed by other donors and in autonomous establishments. In total, the
staffing level required for the sector is about 620. The staffing plan was
agreed during negotiations. An assurance was obtained from the GovernmAent
that the agreed staffing plan could not be changed without IDA's prior
consent throughout project implementation period.
4.47      Key Guinean staff positions would be:  the General Director of
Livestock, the Deputy Director of Livestock, and the Director of the Labe
training center.   Assurances were obtained from the Government that: (a)
the General Director of Livestock would be appointed prior to Credit
effectiveness; (b) the Director of the training center in Labe in post no
later than June 30, 1987; and (c) the three above positions would be
staffed with qualif_ed and experienced personnel acceptable to IDA.
5. Staff Rationalization Program
4.48      The existing numbers of staff in the sector (about 1,800) exceed
the required number for carrying out an effective livestock service. About
1.180 exlsting staff could be released fr-n' the service without reducing
the productivity of the sector. Staff profiles had been prepared to
classify staff qualifications and years in service. The Government will
implement testing operations in order to reclassify the existing personnel
and to identify the redundant staff. Prior to Credit effectiveness,
Government will submit an action plan acceptable to IDA outlining the steps
for the retrenchment of the non-productive staff. The termination grants
would be financed by the Government or through the counterpart funds
generated by the Structural Adjustment Credit (para 2.04). The project
would help to reorient some of the redundant staff with qualified skills to
productive areas in the livestock sector through the provision of credit
(para 4.12). Other forms of credit for small and medium enterprises would
be available through the existing Industrial Rehabilitation and Promotion
Project (Cr. 1234, US$19 million of April 1982).



- 34 -
6. Distribution and Sales of Livestock Inputs
4.49      The management of livestock inputs would be the responsibility of
the Input Supply Center (CA) (para 4.08). In the first two project years
when the volume of livestock inputs would be small, staff from DGE would be
responsible for the management of stocks for CA. During the later years, a
full time Director may be necessary. Livestock inputs would be distributed
to SPEs, private veterinarians, pharmacies, and retail shops to be
introduced under the project (para 4.12) for sales on consignments to
herders' groups and individual herdsmen.
4.50      Sale prices of livestock inputs from the CA would include a mark
up that would cover all operating costs, losses and profits that would be
attractive for eventual take over by the private sector. According to the
cash flow estimated for CA (Annex 4-1). a mark up of about 25Z for CA to
intermediate distribution points i.e. DPEs, private veterianarians,
pharmacies or retail shops would achieve this objective. The following
margins are recommended for sales of livestock inputs:
SPE
,.       PhraisAssociations
Pharmacies      |      0
R \ 2r-s? i ~~~~~~~~Iudividual
Private
Veteriilarians
Retail
7.   Pilot Credit Administration
4.51       Each loan applicatioL would be scrutinized  by the concerned SPE
and forwarded to DGE for review. A credit committee consisting of the
General Director, Technical Director and the Financial Directcr would be
established for this purpose. The loan applications would then be sent to
the commercial bank for approval. The line of credit, however, would be
managed by a commercial bank. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and a commercial bank with terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of disbursement of the pilot credit
component. In view of the innovative nature of these loans, an assurance
was obtained from the Government that the first two applications of each
type of loan would be sent to IDA for approval.



- 35 -
8.   Implementation Schedule and Building Construction
4.52      The project's implementation schedule is shown in Annex 4-9.
Project construction works - new buildings for DGE, the Labe training
center, three houses for technical assistance in Labe and a guest house for
visiting consultants, 13 SPEs and the western vaccination campaign base at
Labe; plus the refurbishing of the eastern vaccination campaign base at
Kankan and 9 existing SPEs-would be undertaken by contractors commencing
in PY1 and would be all completed at the latest by PY4. The design that
was approved under the cancelled project (para 3.21) would be retained.
Some minor modifications and additions were made. The building contract
was carried out under ICB procedures acceptable to IDA, and the award was
made in May 1986.
9.  Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles
4.53      Vehicles and equipment would be procured during the first two
years of the project. They would be replaced as required. All project
vehicles and equipment would be purchased with a stock of spare parts, and
project costing allows for subsequent replenishment of this stock. First
level maintenance of vehicles would be provided by three workshops under
the project at Conakry, Labe, and Kankan. Repairs of vehicles far from
these bases would be handled through direct hiring as and when needed of
Guinean mechanics, and provision to them of necessary spare parts. The
establishment of private maintenance workshop throughout the country is
being studied under the ongoing Third Highway Project (Cr.1457, US$28
million of May 1984) and the resulting recommendation would be addressed in
future IDA lending operations.
10. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.54      The Monitoring and Statistics division in SPE would be
responsible for monitoring project progress and for its analysis (para.
4.36). The lack of reliable data necessitated the finance of a pre-project
study financed under the PPF (para. 4.24). During project implementation,
data collection would be streamlined. Census-type collection of data which
is currently being carried out annually would be substantially reduced in
frequency in favor of statistically based sample surveys. Those would be
used to investigate key technical parameters of the Guinean herd such as
population, health, mortality and offtake, and the impact of the project
upon these parameters, together with informatioD on marketing and prices,
and herdsmen's attitudes. The pre-project study and the information
collected during project implementation would form the basis for an
evaluation study to be carried out by the Strategy and Development Office
("Bureau de Strategie et Developpement", BSD) of the MDR. BSD is financed
under the Agricultural Services Project (para 2.10).
11. Present Status of Credit Effectiveness
4.55      The arrete authorizing the charges of livestock inputs and
veterinary services was issued in May 1986 and the detailed level of



- 36 -
changes would be established in August 1986. The Government has hired
consultants to carry out a study of the appropriate level. The study of
the financial and cost accounting system was completed. Implementation of
the new financial system is scheduled to start in July 1986.
4.56      The cofinancing agreements of CCCE and FAC are expected to be
signed in July 1986. The BADEA loan agreements are expected shortly after
Board approval of the Credit. The setting up of the local currency
Revolving Fund is also expected shortly after Board approval of the Credit.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
5.01      While the veterinary measures introduced under the project would
be available for all forms of livestock, project impact has been estimated
solely in terms of cattle output (incremental beef and milk), the project's
primary focus. Details concerning development of the herd plus assumptions
used are provided in Annex 5-1. Calving rates are assumed to increase from
56% to 60% by year 12, calf mortality to fall from 34% to 26% by year 9,
and mortality of young stock under two years of age to fall from 12Z to 9%
by year 8. Reduced mortalities in other age/sex categories are also
expected and included in the assumptions of Annex 5-1. These factors are
assumed to result in higher offtake (from an estimated current offtake of
9.5% to an offtake of 10.4Z), and higher milk yields for lactating cows.
The total herd size would increase by about 60% over the assumed 20 year
life of the project. Guinea's forage resources, are not expected to be put
under strain as a result of the project. However, this issue would Le
studied under the project (para 4.19). If there were to be constraints-
the follow up project would have to address the problem. Project impact is
detailed in Annex 5-2 and summarized on the following page.
B. Marketing and Prices
5.02      Since April 1984, the herdsmen are free to sell their cattle in
the market. In 1985, their prices reflect the supply and demand conditions
and vary between FG 20,000 to 32,000 per head. At present, prices of beef
(with bone) fetch about FG 450/kg in the rural market in Fouta Djalon to FG
550/kg in the Forest Region. Retail price of beef sold in Conakry is about
FG 550/kg which is compatible to the imported price of beef of US$1.5/kg
equivalent at the exchange rate of FG 360 to the US dollar. As the meat
consumption in the country is only half that of the neighboring country and
per capita consumption would only increase marginally, the increased
production of meat resulting from the project would be easily absorbed.
Furthermore, as the N'Dama breed is in high demand in neighboring countries
and exports are allowed, Guinean herdsmen are not expected to face
constraints in marketing their cattle.



Project Impact
Project Year                            1         5          10         15         20       Increase
PY20/PY1
Herd Projection ('000 animals)
With Project                       1,600       1,708      1,979      2,334      2,749       61
Without Project                    1,600       1,649      1,702      1,756      1,812       31
Incremental                           0          59        277        578        937
Sales            ('000 animals)
With Project                         151         170        205        243        286       89
Without Project                      151         157        162        167        173       15
Incremental                           0          13         43         76        113
Meat Production (tons)
With Project                      18,578      20,866    25,871    30,674    34,935          88
Without Project                   18,578      19,287    19,940    20,578    21,236          14
Incremental                           0       1,579      5,931    10,096    13,699
Milk Production (tons)
With Project                      28,375      33,412    42,429    50,061    58,965          108
Without Project                   28,375      29,603    30,559    31,536    32,544           15
Incremental                           0       3,809    11,870    18,525    24,237
Beef Consumption per capita a/ (kg)
With Project                         3.0         3.2        3.5        3.6        3.6       20
Without Project                      3.0         3.0        2.7        2.4        2.2      (27)
Milk Consumption per capita a/ (liter)
With Project                         5.0         5.4        6.4        6.5        6.5       30
Without Project                      5.0         4.5        4.2        3.7        3.4      (32)
a/  Assuming population growth rate at
2.7% p.a. and no imports.



- 38 -
C. Herdsmen's Incomes and Incentives
5.03      The expected impact of the project upon producer incomes is
illustrated in Annex 5-3. For an average cattle herd of about 10 animals,
producer's net incomes would increase as follows:
Producer Incremental Net Income for
Average Cattle Herd of 10 Animals
Project Year                    1         5         10        15         20
Incremental Net Income  (FG) -400       3,600    12,200    22,200    34,200
US$ equivalent        -1.6        10.0       33.9      61.7      95.0
5.04      While benefits for participants are substantial, the full impact
of such measures would not be realized for several years. Annual net
incremental returns for the average livestock owner would be negative and
negligible until PY4. Nevertheless, this lag is made up for by high
returns in later years. Of more immediate concern, however, is the
perception of the livestock owners over the shorter run. A study would be
carried out under PPF to establish the sale prices for inputs and charges
for veterinary treatment. However, it is expected the average annual cost
of inputs and treatment for a 10 cattle herd in the earlier years would be
less than 5% of the average annual income from such a herd under without
project condition. Thus, the payments expected from project beneficiaries
are therefore affordable.
5.05      The above analysis illustrates the financial attractiveness to
herdsmen of participating in the project. It is expected that this would
be fully appreciated by Guinean livestock owners. Through contacts with
herdsmen in neighboring countries, Guinean livestock owners are aware of
the benefits from using -eterinary inputs and mineral licks, and also know
that these are generally charged for. When available in Guinea, such items
are in high demand and, for instance, some livestock owners even go to the
trouble of purchasing common salt to provide to their cattle. Furthermore,
while lags may be experienced in realizing full income benefits from the
project's health measures, the results in terms of, for instance, the
improved visual appearance of an animal previously infested with parasites,
are readily appareat.



- 39 -
D.   Cost Recovery
5.06      Direct Cost Recovery.  Charges for livestock inputs would reflect
the imported cost of the products and a mark-up of 50% which would cover
purchase and distribution costs, and to provide a margin sufficiently
attractive in promoting the participation of the private sector (para.
4.50). Veterinary treatments by livestock staff would also reflect
operating costs and a sufficient margin to attract private sector.
Government has issued an arrete to authorize the sales of livestock inputs
and the charges for veterinary treatments. The detailed level of charges
for the livestock inputs and veterinary treatments are expected to be
studied and defined by an arrete to be issued before Credit effectiveness.
Annual review of the charges would be carried out between the Government
and IDA, and adjustments would be made if necessary after taking into
account the herdsmen's ability to pay.
5.07      Vaccination Charges.  Under the project, vaccination against
common cattle disease would be free for the following reasons:
a)   Rinderpest has not been recorded in Guinea since the
sixties. However, the outbreak of this disease should be
prevented through vaccination limited to the herds along the
Senegal and Malian borders. If the charges would be
implemented, the herdsmen may refuse vaccination which is
not perceived as beneficial to them. This would have a
detrimental effect on the livestock population in Guinea.
b)   The vaccination against CBPP has not been well received by
the livestock owners so far as it has produced side eff-cts
which are harmful to their animals (swelling which can be
cured by injection of another shot eight days after the
vaccination). If there is a charge, this could give the
livestock owners another reason for refusing vaccinations.
c)   There was a general mistrust between the herdsmen and
livestock staff due to the forced marketing policy of the
previous regime. The new Government is trying to restore
the confidence of the herdsmen in the services provided by
the livestock staff. The introducrion of the charges during
this period may impair this objective.
5.08      These conditions, however, may change over time as the herdsmen
realize the benefits and restore confidence in the services provided by the
livestock staff. Consequently, a review on the implications of direct
charges for vaccinations against CBPP and RP would be carried out by the
Government by December 31, 1988. The review would be discussed with IDA
with tae view to establish future recovery policy.



- 40 -
5.09      Sector Taxation.    The vaccination tax (para 3.15), an
inappropriately named assessment which was essentially a cattle head tax of
sylis 15 per adult animal.  Collection was done by livestock staff based on
the annual census conducted by livestock administration. Because herdsmen
inaccurately reported herd size to census takers and evaded tax collectors,
the amount of money obtained annually (about sylis 4.0 million) was judged
to be less than the cost of the collection effort. For this reason and due
to the negative impact of the tax on herdsmen's attitude toward the
livestock service, the Government has abolished the vaccination tax by a
decree in March 1986. Other indirect taxes related to tne sector such as
sales tax, slaughtering taxes, and import duties on imported meat also
exist. However, their collection has been lax. A study would be carried
out by June 30, 1987 to propose measures for enforcing tax collection in
the sector and for compensating the regional budget for the loss of the
cattle head tax.
5.10      Recurrent Cost and Government Financing.  At present, the
recurrent budget for the sector is used to finance the salaries of civil
servants and very little for the operating costs. The project would
increase the recurrent cost for the Government from its present level as,
for the first time, the staff would be properly equipped with transport and
materials to carry out their work. On the other hand, through the staff
reduction program, the Government would save on the salary expenses.
However, this saving would likely be absorbed by an increase in the salary
level of civil servants as a result of the economic reform program.
5.11      Under the project, the Government would finance about US$0.8
million equivalent in operating cost or about 50% of the total operating
cost. On average, this would amount less than US$0.2 million equivalent
per year which would not impose a heavy burden on the Government finance.
As time progresses, the Government would be able to make a larger
contribution to their operating costs, which would also decline with
experience in the privatisation process initiated under the project.
However, in the medium term, the restructuration of the sector will
continue to depend on outside support, particularly as Guinea is faced with
limited foreign exchange. The Association would likely continue its
support to the sector through future operations.
5.12      As the pace of the privatisation process would be known after a
few years of project execution, and with the implementation of measures to
improve cost recovery (para 5.09) and financial procedures (para 4.32) for
the sector, a clearer picture of Government financing could be developped.
Therefore by December 31, 1988, a review of the Government financing of the
sector would be carried out between Government and the Association with a
view to determine the balance between the salary and operating costs for
the sector, and the means for post-project implementation sustainability.
Furthermore, a mid-term evaluation would be carried out not later than
December 31, 1989 in order to determine whether project objectives have
been met and introduced changes, if necessary.



- 41 -
VI. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS
A.   Project Benefits
6.01      The project's directly quantifiable benefits would result from
the improvements in livestock productivity that it would induce. These
have been estimated entirely in terms of cattle output, the project's
specific focus, although other forms of livestock would also benefit from
the project's veterinary measures. Under the project, beef production is
anticipated to increase by 30Z or by 5,900 tons per year (tpy) by year 10
and by 65Z or 13,700 tpy by year 20. Milk production would increase by 40Z
or 11,900 tpy by year 10 and 80% or 24,700 tpy by year 20.   Per capita
consumption of beef would increase from 3.0 kg to 3.4 kg by the end of
project life. Under without project condition, per capita meat consumption
covered by domestic production would have decreased to 2.2 kg.  Similarly.
per capita milk consumption would increase from 5 liter at present to 6.5
liter at the end of project period, while it would have decreased to 3.4
liter under without project condition.
6.02      Project benefits would be widely distributed to about 160,000
families (1.3 million persons) representing a quarter of Guinea's
population. Almost all of these families would benefit through the
project's vaccination coverage and a majority of them are expected to
utilize to some degree the improved veterinary services provided under the
project. Average net income from cattle! per family (in 1985 terms) is
expected to increase by 302 or FG 12,200 per annum by year 10 and by 77Z or
FG 34,200 by year 20 (para 5.03).
6.03      Additionally, through its pilot credit program. herdsmen's
associations, and the input supply system, the project would promote the
privatisation of livestock services. If successful, the model could be
replicated on a larger scale and most of costs of livestock inputs and
services could then be transferred to livestock owners. This would help
reduce budgetary expendl ures on a productive sector that could be and
should be self-supporting. Furthermore, through its institution
strengthening and training measures, the project would rationalize the
staffing and management of the public livestock service to enable a more
effective usage of Government's resources.
B.  Economic Analysis
6.04      Economic Rate or Return.  In calculating the project's economic
rate of return, only the project's directly quantifiable benefits (para
5.01) have been taken into account and all project costs, except for the
pilot credit scheme, have been included. Costs and benefits have been
computed over twenty years in constant 1985 prices. For analytical
purposes, it has been assumed that project activities, except for livestock
inputs are maintained at PY5 levels from PY6 onwards and that no further
improvements to the livestock services' impact upon productivity are
achieved. Purchases of livestock inputs are projected over the life of the
project to take into account additional creations of herdsmen's
associations and incremental stock after project implementation period.



- 42 -
Incremental output has been valued at FG 60/liter for milk and FG 225/kg of
liveweight. The resultant cost and benefit streams are presented in Annex
6. The project would have an economic rate of return of about 14%.
6.05      Sensitivity.  The sensitivity tests in Annex 6 indicate a 10%
shortfall in benefits or a 10% rise in costs would in both cases still
induce a rate of return of over 11%, and if both eventualities occured
together, the ERR would be at about 10%. However, this would unlikely
happen since the uncertainty relating to construction costs have been
resolved and the parameters used for estimating project benefits are
conservative. Alternately, the sensitivity of the project to changes in
costs or benefits can be expressed in terms of switching values - the
percentage fall in benefits or rise in costs which would reduce the net
present value to zero at the estimated opportunity cost of capital (10x)
-- which are 17% for costs and 15% for benefits. This means that benefits
would have to fall by 15% or costs to rise by 17% for the ERR to fall as
low as 10%. The effect upon the project's economic rate of return of lags
in the realization of benefits are also illustrated in Annex 6.
C. Risks
6.06      From a technical view point, the measures proposed under the
project for improving livestock productivity are not considered a major
risk. The activities already initiated in Guinea with UNDP/FAO assistance
and the Livestock Development Project (Cr. 1063) have demonstrated the
feasibility of the vaccination program, and the project's veterinary
measures are based on experience elsewhere in Africa. The project's main
risks are related to: (i) the implementation of the staff rationalization
program (para 4.48), and (ii) the willingness of livestock owners to
participate in the project. On the former, risks would be minimized by the
agreement to be reached under the national staff rationalization scheme, a
key feature of the Government's negotiations of structural adjustment
program. With the decontrol of the cattle market, financial incentives for
herdsmen to participate are judged to be present (para 5.05). Furthermore,
they are aware of the benefits from using veterinary services and inputs
and would be willing to pay for them. Thus, the risk would be minimal.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreements on the following points were reached during
negotations:
(a) A draft model statute for the herdsmen's associations would
be ready for IDA review by June 30, 1987 (para 4.04)
(b) Operation and management of CA would be reviewed annually
between the Government and IDA (para 4.08).



- 43 -
(c) Government would require trainees benefitting from the
fellowship program to stay in the livestock services for at
least two years (para 4.16).
(d) Government would replenish local currency Revolving Fund
quarterly (para 4.31).
(e) Changes in the organizational structure that would affect
project execution would be agreed with IDA (para 4.39)
(f) An annual plan on training activities would be submitted to
IDA for comment and approval at least two months before the
start of each fiscal year (para 4.43).
(g) The agreed staffing plan would not be changed without IDA's
approval throughout project implementation period (para
4.46)
(h)  The Director of the Labe Training center would be appointed
no later than June 30, 1987 (para 4.47).
(i) Key Guinean staff positions would be staffed at all times by
personnel with qualification and exIsrience acceptable to
IDA (para 4.47).
(j) The first two applications of each type of loan for the
pilot credit scheme would be sent to IDA for approval (para
4.51).
(k) Annual reviews on the charges for livestock inputs and
veterinary treatments would be carried out between
Government and IDA (para 5.06).
(1)  A review on the implication of direct charges fo-
vaccination against CBPP and RP would be carried out by
December 31, 1988 (para 5.08).
(m) A study on measures to improve taxation system including the
collection of tax in the sector and to compensate the
regional budget for the loss of cattle herd tax would be
carried out by June 30, 1987 (para 5.09).
(n) A review on Government financing of the livestock sector
would take place between Government and the Association by
December 31, 1988 with a view to determine the balance



- 44 -
between the salary and the operating cost in the sector and
the means for post-project implementation sustainability
(para 5.12).
(o) A mid-term evaluation would be carried out between
Government and IDA no later than December 31, 1989
(para 5.12).
7.02      Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a) The enactment of a satisfactory statute for the creation of
an Input Supply Center (para 4.08).
(b) Cross-effectiveness with the CCCE, FAC, and BADEA financing
agreements (para 4.27).
(c)  Opening of a local currency Revolving Fund at e commercial
bank acceptable to IDA and the initial deposit of US$0.3
million equivalent into the Fund (para 4.31).
(d) The establishment of a system of financial accounting and
control (para b.32).
(e) The appointment of the General Director of Livestock
(para 4.47).
(f) Government would submit an action plan acceptable to IDA for
the retrenchment of redundant livestock (para 4.48).
(g) The establiskment of the tariffs for supply of inputs and
services to herders (para 5.06).
7.03      The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and a commercial bank in Guinea with terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of disbursement of the pilot credit
component (para 4.51).
7.04      With the above conditions and assurances, the project is
considered suitable for an IDA Credit of US$9.8 million.
WAPA A
May 1986



- 45 -
Annex 4-1
Page 1 of 9
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Livestock Inputs
A.   Introduction
1.        Livestock inputs include veterinary medicines, vaccines, and
mineral licks. At present, the administration, represented by General
Directorate of Livestock, procures and provides livestock inputs free of
charges. Because of the limited financial resources, the provision of
livestock invuts is virtually non-existent, except for vaccines used in
vaccinatioL campaign against Rinderpest and CBPP.  They have been, however,
financed by external resources (UNDP, IDA).
2.        As the livestock owners become more aware of the benefits of
using modern medicines and improving feeding, they are ready to pay for
these inputs. At the same time, government resources are limited.
Consequently, under the project, the provision and distribution of
livestock inputs would be privatized through: (a) introduction of sales of
inputs and charges for services, except for vaccinations against Rinderpest
and CBPP; (b) creation of an autonomous agency, the Input Supply Center
("Centrale d'Approvisionnment" - CA) wth a statute acceptable to IDA. The
draft statute of CA was agreed during negotiations and its enactment would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
B.   Input Supply Center (Centrale d'Approv'isionnement, CA)
3.        CA would be responsible for importing, producing and distributing
livestock inputs in Guinea. In the beginning, as private interest is
limited, CA would be created as a public autonomous company under the
tutelle of the Direction Generale de 1'Elevage. However, annual review
would take place between IDA and the Government to examine the possibility
of the participation of the private sector. CA would be located in
Conakry, in the Direction Generale de l'Elevage. It would distribute
livestock ilputs to SPE. private veterinarians, private pharmacies and
retail shops. It would sell inputs on consignments to SPE and private
veterinarians. These intermediaries would in turn sell inputs to
herdsmen's associations or individual herdsmen. CA would not have monopoly
on importing, producing and distributing livestock inputs. Its capital
would be made ap initially from the IDA financing of livestock inputs under
the proposed project.



- 46 -
Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 9
4.        CA would be mauaged by a General Manager, assisted by a
Commercial Director and a Financial and Administrative Director. However,
as the activities would be limited in the first two years of the project,
the activities of CA would be managed by the DGE staff, with the assistance
of the internationally recruited Financial Director. CA would be governed
by a Managing Board presided by the DGE with a representative from the
Ministry of Economy and Finance as the Vice President, DGE's department
heads, and representatives from the State Secretariat of Commerce,
herdsmen's associations and designated professional groups.  The Board
would approve the work program, the budget and the annual report of CA.
C.  Assumptions in the Calculation of Required Inputs
5.        Requirements of livestock medicines and mineral licks are
estimated for a herders' group of about 700 herdsmen owning 7,650 cattle
and 4,130 sheeps and goats in Table 1. In view of the limited experience
of livestock owners in using inputs, it is assumed that sales to herders'
groups would reach the estimated level after five years. The level of
sales to individual herdsmen would be slower and would reach only 35% of
the estimated level by year seven. When there is a private veterinarian in
the area, the expected sales would reach 70% of the estimated level in year
seven. The build up of sales through various intermediaries is provided in
Table 2. On average, sales level would build up from 14 cents per animal
unit (0.6 of total herd) in year one to 98 cents in year 10 or 82 cents per
head of animal. A build up of livestock inputs is estimated for a period
of ten years and is included in Table 3. It is assumed that the build up
of herders groups would be as follows:
Year           1     2      3     4     5      6     7     8      9    10
Herders' Groups
in Operation       6    10    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15
Cumulative          6    16    31    46    51    76    91   106   121   136
D.   Cash Flow for CA
Cash flow for CA for ten years in constant 1985 prices and
current prices is described in Table 3. The project would finance the
first four years purchases of inputs. By PY 4, the cumulative sales
proceeds would amount to FG 323 million or US $1.3 million equivalent in
1985 prices. The accumulative balance would then be used to finance future
purchases of inputs. By Year 10, the cumulative balance would be about
FG 149 million or US$596,000 equivalent.



- 47 -                   Annex 4-1
Page 3 of 9
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Average Annual Drug and Mineral Licks
Requirements Per Herdsmen Association
Equivalent to 5000 TAU 1/ at Full Development
Table 1
Internal Parasites                                                  Total
US$
Cattle:
25% of adults once a year or                1.500 doses x 0.30    450
80% of calves twice a year or               2,700 doses x 0.15    405
Sheep/Goats:
25% of adults once a year or                  600 doses x 0.15      90
80% of immatures once a year or             1,400 doses x 0.10    140
External Parasites
50% of animals twice a year using 1 litre
solution of 0.6% per cattle head or
5 sheep/goats totalling 8500 litres
of solution equal to                        51 litres x 7.5        375
Blood Parasites
(mainly found in the east or 34%
of the national herd)
1 annual treatment on 60% of cows, 80% of
calves and 10% of other animals and
2 annual treatments for draught-oxen
equalling to doses per TAU                   760 doses x 0.50      380
Vaccines 2/
Telluric on 50% of cattle apt for vaccination
or:                                         3,300 doses x 0.025    83
CBPP and RP associated totalling for the
national herd 120,000 doses                  x 0.04 pm
R.P. for national herd equalling to
100,000 doses                                x 0.03 pm
CBPP for national herd equalling to
600,000 doses                                x 0.03 pm
Individual Treatment
Antibiotiques and sulfamides - cattle       300 doses  x 1.5C      450
sheep/goats     200 doses  x 0.75       150
Cattle vitamins                             250 doses  x 1.2       300
1/ Tropical Animal Unit, about 0.6 of total herd
2/ There is approximately 600,000 cattle heads to be vaccinated against
CBPP and 160,000 against RP.



- 48 -                     Annex 4-1
Page 4 of 9
Wounds                                      500 tmt 3/ x 0.5       250
Sundry drugs                                400 doses  x 1.0       400
Subtotal             3,473
rcunded at           3,500
Mineral SRuplement
4 kg/p.a/50% of cows (including calves)   7,000 Kg x 0.40        2,800
1 Kg/p.a/50 of sheep/goats
(including young ones)            800 Kg x 0.40        320
4 Kg/p.a/5OZ draught oxen                     600 Kg x 0.25        150
(300 draught oxen/5000 TAU)                 Subtotal             3.270
rounded at           3,300
General Total US$   6.800
3/ Tmt- Treatment



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Evolution Of The Annual Consumption of Livestock Inputs By Categories Of Herders
(% of the assumption at full development)
Table 2
PY1     PY2      PY3    PY4   PY5    PY6    PY7    PY8    PY9  PY1O-20
Individual Herders and DPE
Proportion of Consumption
at full development                    0.100  0.125  0.167  0.200  0.250  0.300  0.350  0.350  0.350  0.350
Consumption by a TAU (US$)              0.136  0.157  0.189  0.193  0.217  0.231  0.236  0.202  0.168  0.337
Individual Herders and Private
Veterinarian
Proportion of consumption at full
development                            0.200  0.250  0.333  0.400  0.500  0.600  0.700  0.700  0.700  0.700
Consumption by a TAU (US$)              0.272  0.34   0.453  0.544  0.68   0.816  0.952  0.952  0.952  0.952
Herdsmen's Association
Proportion of consumption at full
development                             0.250  0.333  0.500  0.750  1.000  1.000  1.000  1.000  1.000  1.000           N
Consumption by a TAU (US$)              0.340  0.453  0.680  1.020  1.360  1.360  1.360  1.360  1.360  1.360            |
0 1



- 50 -                                             Anne  4-1
Page 6 of 9
6UINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 3
Drugs and Mineral Licks
I-les and Purchases Movements
J   P11      PY2       PT)       PY4      P15       PYb      PY?       PYO      Piv      PylO
_ _   ____  _ _ _ _   ___ _       _ _   _ _   _  ____ _   _ _                                _
Stabilized Herd Level (taul# 1050000  1050000  1050000  1050000  1050000  1050000  1050000  1050000  1050000  1050000
I
Herdseen tDPEJ          * 1050000   970000   870005   7445000   670000   595D00   520000   445000   370000   295000
Herdssen (Yet)          *             50000   10Ou00    150000   150000   150o00    150000   150000   153000   150000
Herdsaen Groups Year 2 *              30000    3         ;00  30000    30000    30000    30000    30000    30000    30000
Herdsmen Groups Year 3 t                       50000    50000 OJOOO    50000    5000          50000    50000    50000
Herdsuen Groups fear   *                                 ?7500    75000    75000    75000    75000    7500        75000
Herdsuen Groups Year 5 f                                          75000    75000    750        75000    75000    75000
Herdsaen Groups fear 6 *                                                    75000    75000    75000    7*50       75000
Herdsuen Sroups Year 7 i                                                              75000    75000    75000    75000
Herds.en Groups Year 8 f                                                                       75000    75000    75000
Herasuen Groups fear 9 *                                                                                 75000    ?5000
Herdsmen Groups Year 10                                                                                          7?5000
SALES ESTIMATES             +
Drugs              *  735000
Mineral Licks      *  69300)
Total              t 142OO0
EXPE(TED SALES BUILDUP      *
t  Sales DPE to herdsmen#   0.I-0    0.125    0.2167    0.20    0. 50    0.300    0.350    0.350    0250    0.350
t  Sales ve, to herdsec   o.200  .250%   0. 333)   0.400    0.-500    0.600    0.7'CO    70.7T  0  .700    0. 700
;Sales wet. to herdsmen       2 2W   0I0v;3             04C       O5          O      UJN       i'J        .O       .0
1   Sales to iEs             0.;J0c   0.250    0.33    0.50w    O.7'50        .000    !.O00C   1.00C   1.000    1.000
Sales DPE to Herdsmen*
Drugs             *   '3500    84e75   101500   104300   :17250   124950   !17400   109025    90650    72275
Mlineral Licks     *   63CD    B0025    Q5?0u   98340   110550   117810   120120   102795    85470   b6845
Total             *  142eo8   164900   1972A00   202b40   227800   242760   247520   211820   176120   140420
Sales Vet, to herdsment
Drugs             .              30 50.   23333    42060    52500    63000    73500    73500    73500    73500
Mineral licks      +       ;     8250    2 2000    3900    49500    59400    o9300    69300    a9300    69300
Total                     I", Q   I7      45333    BinO  102;00   122400   142800   142800   142000   142800
Sales to 6Es
Drugs             +        it    5 50    15750    39b67    77000   139125   2135Q    279125   331625   304125
Mlineral Licks     +       0     4950    14850    37400    72600   131175   201300   263175   312675   362175
Total                      0    10200    30600    77067   149600   270300   414900   542306   644300   74630D
TOTAL SALES           *
Drugs             +   73500    98075   140583   185967   246750   327075   414400   461650   495775   529900
Mineral Licks      +   593O0    933225   132550   175340   232650   308385   390720   435270   467445   499620



- 51A- Lix 4-1
Page 7 of 9
Total                 1 t42800   192100   273133   361307   479400   b35460   805120   996920   9b3220  1029520
INITIAL STOCIKS 
Drugs              t  182875    10500    17500    26250    35000    43750    43750    43750    43750    43750
Mincral Licks      *  1992b7     9900    16500    24750    33000    41250    41250    41250    41250    41250
Total              *  381164    20400    34000    51000    68000    85000    95000    95000    85000    85000
PURCHISES 1CONSTANT 19851  a
Drugs              *  21030S   181796   244049   324013   426449   526873   581210   620454   65%9B   698941
fineral Licks      *  193289   171408   230104   305498   102000   49b766   547998   584999   622001   65402
Total              *  408595   35203   474153   629510   828529  1023638  1129208  1205457  1281698  1357943
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES 30*
Drugs              *   63092    54539    73215    97204   127?35   158062   174363   186136   197909   209682
Mineral Licks      a   59487    51422    69031    91649   120624   149030   164399   175500   16600   197701
Total              *  122578   105961   142246   188953   248559   307091   358762   361636   384509   407383
BASE COST PHY.COITING.    I
Drugs              *  273396   236D5   Z::7264   421216   554383   684934   755573   806590   957607   908624
K.neral Licks         4 2J7775   222830  N291Z    397147   522704   645795   712397   760499   908601   S6b702
Total              *  531174   459164   ioIJbo   018363  1077080  1330729  1467970  1567089  1666207  1765326
PRICE CMNTIN6ENCIES         I
Drugs              *   39643    54593   103745   180211   27275e7   392878   530412   628334   808723   935892
Mineral Licks      4   37377    51474    97017   !69979   292192   360999   500103   59242.   762510   882403
Total                  7 77020   106067   201562   350259   564948   743879  1030515  1220762  1571234  1818286
BASE COST & CONTINGENCIES *
Drugs              4  313041   290928   421009   601497   827140  1067812  1285985  1434923  1666330  1844506
Mineral Licks         2 295153   2?4303   39D952   567126   814896  1006795  1212500  1352928  1571111  1739106
Total              4  608194   565231   917961  1168622  164203a  2974607  2498486  2787851  3237441  3593612
fCWRA9LE D'APPROYISIONNERENT
+             ~~~~CASH FLOII
CASH    OUTFLDII    (FG-00 )! f __ h___         _____________________________                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Constant 1Y65                   PYI       PY2i      PY3      P14       PY5      PYo       PY-      Pr8B      pyq     Pr!0
Purchase  Orugs &k cks    *1912 21  ;65299   2;1903   204h11   36,-:52   479063   528469   564;5'7  599833   635517
Purchases vehicles               177150       0         0    17750        dj        5    12326                   0    12326
Operating costs       
Maintenance vehicl es             1125     2?5050    0         -25Q     2250     22750     '25d      7'50     2250      22'50
Private Transport Cost      4    !-.X      cbO00     9900    1320Q    16500    19800    2ilOO       16400    29?Du    33000
Maintenance harehcue        t        o        o       250      500       5dO      500       500       500      500       Soo
Salaries:                   I
Drivers l2J                  7 8      ;8  338            38 "     338       3;6B      ;38      338       33e      338
Storekeeper                   0      0          1156     156       156      156       156      156       156      156



- 52 -                                                Annex 4 -1
Page 8 of 9
Storehelpers (21      4       0         0       78        79        78       78        78       78        79        79
BDokeeper             *       0         0       168      168       168           168       16    9       169       168
Clearing Clerk                0         0       168      168       168      16B       169      169       168       168
Secretary             *       0         0       78        79        79      7?         7        78        78        79
aoager                *       0         0      216       216       216      21b       216      216       216       216
Office Expenses             t        0        0       720      720       720       720      720       720      720       720
Total operating costs       *    4503      9188    14322    17972    21172    24472    27772    31072    34372    37672
TOTAL OUTFLOW                  213475   174487   236225   330232   409924   503535   568567   595224   634207   685515
CASH INFLOW                 a
Project Financing           t  191222   165299   221903   294611           0         0        0         0         0        0
Sales                       t
Drugs                  49447    66518    94577   125109   166001   220040   278788   310575   333533   356490
Mineral Licks      4   46622    62717    89173   117760   156515   207466   262957   292B28   314474   336119
Total          4   96069   129235   183750   243069   322516   427506   54164   603403   649006   692610
TOTAL ITFLON                *  287291   294534   405654   537680   322516   427506   541644   603403    4B006   o.92610
ANNAL 9ALANCE               4   7381c   120047   169428   207447   -96407   -76029   -26923          8179    13800      7094
CU-ULATIVE BALANCE          *   73816   193863   363292   570739   484332   408303   381380   389559   403358   410453
4
Sales margin '251)               W 170U8    22476    31957    42273    56090    74349    94199   104940   112697   120454
INFLATION FACTORS               1.145    1.231    1.27,   1.428    1.492    1.559    1.702    1.7?9    1.943    2.030
*         CENTRALE D'APPROYISIONNENENT
4                   CASH FLOW
CASH GUTFLOM ;F. QOO)                     _
Current terms               4   P1l       P1-       Pf3      PY4       PY5      PY        PY?     Pn8        Pi9      PYLO
Purchases Drugs & Licks    +  218931   203463   294436   420660   579626   746926   899616  1003395  1165272  1290377
Purchases vehicles          4   20322         0         0    25344         0        0    20983          C        0    25027
Operating cost              I
llaintenance vehicles       4    1288      2769      2985     3213      3358     3508      3830      4002     4371      4568
Private transport cost           ?178      7556    11335    15113    19991    30871    39323    46055    57697    67004
laintenance Warehouse       *        0        0       332      114       746      780       851       889      971      1015
Salaries:                   4        0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0
Drivers 12)                  89       416      448       493      504       527       575      601       657      686
Storekeeper           +       0         0      20?       223      233       243       266      277       303      317
Storefelpers (21      4       0         0      103       111       116      122       13       139       152       158
Bookeeper             4       0         0      223       240      251       262       296      299       J2       341
Clearing Clerk        4       0         0      2:3       240      251       262       286      299       326      341
Secretary             I       0         0       103      111       116      122       133      139       152       159



- 53 -                                                     Annex 4-1
Page 9 of 9
Manager               4       0         0      289       308       322       337      368       384      420       439
4   0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
04fice Expenses             4        0         0      955      1023     1074      1123      1226     1281      1399      1462
Total operating cost        4    5155    11309    19003    25519    315.4    38155    47276    55264    660773    76491
TOTAL OUTFLOWI              *  244409   214772   313439   471523   610220   785091   967875  1058659  1232045  1391894
CASH INFLOW                 *
Project Financing           *  218931   203463   294436   420660            0        0         0        0         0         0
Sales                       t        0         0        0         0         j        0         0        0         o         0
Drugs              f   56612    01876   125491   178637   247717   343073   474582   55238b   647939   723830
Mineral Licks      *   53377    77197   118320   168429   233562   32349   447463   520821   610914   682469
Total      4  109099   159072   243812   347067   481278   666541   922044  1073206  1258853  14062V
TOTAL INFLOWt                   328920   362535   538248   76 777   481278   666541   922044  107320b  1258853  140.6299
ANNUAL BALANCE               *   84512   147763   224809   29e204  -128942  -118540   -45831    14547    26808    !4404
CUMULATIVE BALANCE           *   84512   232275   457084   753288   624345   636601   649225   692865   793586   833398
Sales margin (251)          4   19129    27665    42402    60359    B3701   115920   160355   186645   218931   244574
WAPAA
May 1986



- 54 -
Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 3
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REIRWL.TTATION PROJECT
Pilot Credit Component - Lending Criteria
I. Pilot Veterinary Service. The loan would be for qualified veterinari-
ans retiring from Government's liJestock services. The lending criteria
would be as follows:
a)   Each loan may not exceed US$8,000;
b)   90% financing;
c)   Interest rate of 12% for 12 years including 3 years grace;
d)   Loans would be disbursed against the proof of purchases of
vehicles and veterinary equipment. Ou construction of
housing and office, if any. 102 of the loans would be
disbursed after approval, 20% after the foundation, 30%
after the wall and roof are constructed, and the rest upon
completion.
II. Animal Production Farms. The loan would be for qualified technicians
retiring from Government's livestock services.  The lending criteria would
be as follows:
a)   Each loan may not exceed US$10,000;
b)   90% financing;
c)   Interest rate of 8% for 15 years including 4 years grace;
d)   Loans would be disbursed against proof of purchase.  In
case the animals would be obtained from remote areas, the
borrower would supply the bank with three estimates of sale
prices of animals. Disbur'-3ment against any construction,
if any, would be 10% upon loan approval, 20% after the
foundation, 30% after wall and roof are constructed, and the
rest upon completion.
III. Input Suppliers. The loans would be for qualified staff retiring from
Government's livestock services. The criteria would be as follows:
a)   Each loan may not exceed US$3,500;
b)   90% financing;
c)   Interest rate of 10% for 1 year;
d)   Loans would be disbursed  against proof of purchases.
IV. Herdsmen's Associations. The loans would cover a wide range of
investments, depending on the need of the associations. Each loan should
not exceed US$10,000 and at interest rate not lower than 8%. Duration of
the loan would range from 1 year in case of purchases of inputs to 10 years
in case of construction of dipping tank. Disburcenents would depend on the
nature of the loan. They would be against proofs of purchases or in case
of construction, they would be made similar to disbursements in other loan
categories (private veterinarian service and animal production farms).



6UINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cash Flow Model For Setting Up A Veterinarian
Service Covering 20,000 TAUa/
ILoan of F6 2,890,000 at 12% with 3 years grace
and 9 years repayient)b/
Year                          1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9       10        11       12
------------------------------------ (1985 prices in FS '000)-----------------------------------------------
CASH INFLOW (in F6 '000)
Loan                                2880
Downpay*ent cl                       288
Revenues from Input Sales d/         298      396       510       680      850       935      935       935      935       935      935       935
Service Fees                         29B      396       510       680      950       935      935       935      935       935      935       935
Meat Inspection Fees                 200      200       200       200      200       200      200       200      200       200      200       200
(2000hiFOlOO)                                                                                                                                                          in
TOTAL                        3963       993      1220     1560      1900     2070      2070     2070      2070     2070      2070     2070
CASH OUTFLOW (in F6'000)
Loan Payments                        311      311       311       486      486       486      486       486      496       486      486       486
Vehicles el                          300                300                300               1625                         1625
Operating costs                      200      225       200       225      200       225      325       375      425       325      375       425
Housing                              975
Vet, equipment                       300                          100                         100                          100
TOTAL                        2086       536      811       811       986      711      2536      861       911     2536       861      911
Balance                       1877      457       409      749       914     1359      -466     1209      1159     -466      1209     1159
Cumulative                    1877     2334      2742     3491      4405     5763      5297     6505      7664     7197      8406     9564
a/ TAU : Tropical Animal Unit, about .6 of total herd
bl Proposed lending teres and conditions
c/l IOX of the amount of loan
d/ Assuming the same as revenues from input sales
e/ Notocycle for the first 7 years and a car thereafter
o l



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cash Flow Model For A Cattle Fare
ILoan of FS 3,600,000 at St Nith 4 years
grace and 11 years of repayuentla/
Year                                1         2         3         4         5         t         7         a         9        10        11        12        13        14        15
---------------------------------------------------(- 1985 price in F6'000)----------------------------------------- ---------------
CASH lfNLOW
Lain                                  3600
Downpayuent b/                         360
Sales of Cattle                        188       231       360       377       620       725      1094      1131      1160      1160       1208      1208      1182      1182      1175
Sales of Milk                           94       133       176       197       206       219       240       235       229       226       226       226       225       223       222
TOTAL                         4242       3b4       53b       574       025       943      1334      1366      1389      1305       1433      1433      1407      1405      1396
CASH OUTFLON
Cattle purchase c/                    2522                                                                                                                                                     LA
Cattle barn                            150
Equipment                               75
Loan payment                           259       259       259       259       522       522       522       522       522       522       522       522        522       522       522
Operating cost                          59        69        83        95       103       fi1       119       121       122       122        121       120       119       119       119
TOTAL                          3066       328       342       354       625       633       641       643       644       644       643        642       641       641       641
Balance                        1176        36       194       220       201       310       692       723        745       742       791       791       765       765       756
Cumulative                     1176      1212      2406      1626      1027      2137      2830      3552      4297      5039       5030      6621    7136        8151      e907
/proposed lending terms and conditions
b/ 107 of the amount of loan
c/ consJsting of about 30 cattle
WAPAA
fay  1986
10I
w



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance & Consulting Servces
Quorter           Fyi                     PY2                    PY3                     PY4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                                  TOTAL
Technical Advnay                              -     -                -     -                       -                 -            35 rn/y
Financial Advisot                 -                                                                                               4.0 |I/y
Training Specialist                                                                                                               3.0 m/y
AsocilOtio Specialist                             I     l    I    l    I    l        L        _        L                          3.0 m/y
Vaccine Produclion Specialist                 _     _     _           _    _                                                      2.0 m/y
Diagnostic Laboratory                                      _1.5 m/V
Input Supply Center                                                                                                               2.0 _m/y
total                                                                                                                         1.  /
CONSULTING SERVICES
Diagnostic Litxary                                                                                                                3.0 m/m
Agro Pastoralism                                                                                                                  6.0 m/m
Livestock Reoulation                                                                                                              30 m/m
Anirnal Genetics                                                                                                                  6.0 m/m
Slaughter Houses                                                                                                                  3.0 rn/m
Pastoral Watering Points                                                                                                          3.0 rn/m
Small Ruminants                                                                                                                   3 0 m/m
Preparation of a Follow-up Project                                                                                                ' _  _  12.0 m/m
Total                                                                                                                         39.0 rn/rn
World Bank - 27463
x



LIESIIKI 35C73 IES3ILI10flLt PIKCET
imm MII TAKLE
I    4          5        Tota                                                              I          4                               3        Total
it 00 kin,                                                                                                           is T  thomews
b.Iiu-q                                           a..        ..39            1          I i        I,    014431            34.10291                                      .25,8      25.3&           v          0           a     o  t
V00,cle,                                           WM2'      I'..,*      o.713     aO.09           6    1Si.45i
fewpowN                               SASO~~~~~205  1*1.112  nasap     12-.00         o    23.310
flsre.'c :61t.                                    ou154      42.141     15.1a      67.431     17.600    223*3'             brtmgq CAN%i                                   4,.4-      5.30       5.53o      5.026,     3.02"     29.7o'
Total                                            rn i.il    531.541     '*,0%    323.43-    47.10   3.113,152              Total                                         20.11      39.736      5.52.      5.62D      1,o3      ?77541
Tota  l- 41b36'alrtoqK'c.n                      II'.10l    5041,123     *l,o0    13,00        5.05   I..24i. 11            toal so uiinacal cstaoqw.es                   34.ico    15,019       60,46      o,112      o.I1E     six:3
Total -ith 11140(0  ltin910IC'                  52.'1:    753.000    11o.1=    lfl.a6        713    t.o54.405             total .,n   maCal out.sqwouo                  11.107     52.14?    10431       11,*22     12.017    132,03
'11  OUPST  if TIE Pt LiR       MCSt ta                                                                                    '1110001Sf OF 1'E SlOtA 5sims
wils191                                          X-2479    ;91.479    224.V22    :54.62:              1.110t.001           341100.4                                      T.t        :.         21.4n=       .a                  17,44
00*1cms                                          25r.55.          0    151.421I   345,-6.      M.       564 3.*12
fe.gooet                                         30L5'2    13.25.       72,758     71.750     .1.24       .3435             El".P."                                         70.        F44        000        000          I      2.&
OWuats4 [Bits                                     53.oC      55.133     213 5,.;I       o     01*149    3oa.P              lporol,q Costs370 12.                                       UI 018  1.465      14.24b      11.411    0.28'1
?,tat                                "~~~~~~~c..P  4Sjao"    L-,411    414.404    2326     .b3.00              Itetl                                        21.671     40,31       31.417     sa,2o1     14.411    Lb513
Itetl wlo Iftysicl wotlqwo t 1c17.2                         538.92h    o82.P-   52o.134    Y:.122  Z.947,369               Total 00th obyscal wotcqot.s                  44,100     45 .272-    40.70'    40,900     15.40     117.166
total "t60 11610c0l rotuoo.os                   .17.12      &08.S3    "."0         99.1I1     Mm099   3,'So.o0             Total tol  0a.-AKcl COic..qocutif             sa.r-      6. Itos    oi.n       7;.6:      33.394    n".
nwI.LUlt  5*003w                                                                                                           Pelotulin I CtRP2IS
34110141                                         V   04    113.75 rI                                    29'.601            kmLimq9                                       12.151     iV.1                       0          9     25.421
voacIo                                            .I.E                            141.612          I    245.00
Ee.pp.st                                          14,42      1,10          33         30D        Al      21.7,4?           Eve4olmit                                        III        330          4          0          4        all
torolmo   ml,t                                    0z.50      B3.062     .2.311     03.76      13.71     31h.7?3            bOratlg  wsas                                  5.Vo5      *.ON       *.122      0.135      a.144    20,394
Total                                            257.601   114.941      02.0.1   2111.131     08.175    OL.141             Total                                         10.9bb     19,11        .1        2.1 0r .141          3&,425
Idea  41t1. u*y1aaE& lcit,sp..                   402.011    230.02        .37     22,7        76052v     M.=.              faId  411 oft-I0   cotlisetqObl               21,50     236000       s,a        0.741      0,33      9.314'
totul  sot 4I.M1.3 losot..c.o.                   40I.l0      l.1i       '222      22.0       104.M5  3.2.421.021           Total  toi  imaccl citllotIotn                23.697     22.I09     11.311     146,11    14,211      99.507
swet. urnuP                                                                                                                OW-L? C52T
Valli"                                            3J1.4           0          4a     0,0            I    112.41              ls.stot.                                          6                                0a
Em,pooit                                         I11. 1:     11.5106                    a    0    I    12305
Oohwal hooat chilep                               14.2%      18.250          aJ         0          0     1650.1
L.emk& ..Wo                                      461.5'!   15.231    4'I.12    62M.210             6  1.101.611
Ioalotig eml.                                     11.511      2.7Fla    316.6      41.115          0    135,445            up. costs                                      4.225      4.22       4.22       4.m5       &.M       21.125
Ytali                                            6l.2t4    603.713    511.121   --4.4422           6  2.301.54             Total                                          0.22       4.225      4.m2       4.=        G.        21.1:5
total 4111 plyilal CwtIqoglus                    L32,035    5110110    oslji1'   623.2111          4  2.X22941             TotaL otto papeito  retatnqw,ui                4.041      4.106      4.646      0.44       1.041     13,23
Total 4110 #0"Asoc  mloqoca                      33.33      ULM63    1078.42   T.M.71o,l           *  '.01.7Y0             Total.16 N th   colcstl-oqic:n                 site6      0.075      7.1        3,745     '93o        9.540
STAFF 1401510                                                                                                              0T49 T1110110140
hmuIsog                                          476."-   070.007                       0          0                       h6,%silloog                                   40,4010    40.E0           a          0          I    31.311
WeaRs                                                  4                     a1.3    2.7o2    111,24    228,202
Elsp.i 5et2                                                                        4               4     57. 742          Elimp-t I                                                  o.3o4        1I      2        1     32 t    1.910
F011in44I6                                       3114.100    052.2,8    10.700    132.31!     41,603   022,341
boratto   mills                                        I     tvI.11l    :I.m1      31.4im     31.611    110.1211           brwaTlq costs                                      0      111.71     11342      8,92       9.603     25,05
Total                                           110,3147    cisC?    11.5316   3Oi.07    1411.712  1.1.24tota                                                            41.460    1,2111       40h3       0,111      9,32    322,100
Total ath poyscal coto.o.oaoi                    .3.461     98.2       2111.3611   2013.455    211.31  2.5.04Ttal 41u, possit. ol  l.qoomle                              11.491     62.742      I.es1     30,022     10.311   1311.1
toaId t01  4 soamol csltqosis                    p55.021  1..325'      r.274    8102.232   3.24.15. 2.rnr.n'               Toftal satl 'sostl cS'.qobos                 6.1.41     94.o3       30.713     11411311    21,439    212,332
18044(11 MSIETITE                                                                                                          TItmicE. 455S1'TatL
lo-scc                                           742'.1U  1.174.l54    9300        19.5 TR30          232.r400             1m.ooteti                                          0          I          *          4          0          *
fto.tle                                           :5,SP1          0          u     32.4411        "1    32,511
boodoog coils                                    04093        4.i92      '.062      '.62       4.092      Move4             borttqI coats                                   172       372        1872       I32         312      4.2A0
Toatl                                           '06.964  3,7.02        0341923 516011          4.o12  3.453.0              Total                                           17.1        872        9M2        172        172      4.310
TOtalci ptlysaCMICal slQosCLos                  771.961, 1.13.111    903.9a3    400,19         5.161  2.051.27             Total ode physical cwta-qools                   597        950         954        959        950      4,191
totel "M11 fao.l rw'Tlagonas                    33,33   1,44122&  3,167.40    as2.41*          7.*5  4.310.25              rotaslO nthWmcall Wt1441oc1s                   1.219      I.oa0      1.611      1405       2,623      8.113
SO41SIO1 OF  MtROICTlU1                                                                                                    10063S113 IF 5111tt1
CmwtioIo  Sw6ltf                                31.3        3.380                                      217.w1             Cas"Iot.oo So.r.ic                               110        450        454        450          6      31.10
latcl.                              ~~~~~~~45.94                                             45.909,           Oflcls                                                                                                   0
borotoog cml                                      22.075     321.075                                     20.1o             brat..; Ccitt                                  1.01   3193           3,19I.3    3,303          4      7,52
iftem                                           2230.54    1t10.534                                     341.047            Total                                         3.,243      2.343      2.143      2,343          0      9,322
Tetal IoTh oOysuca  conttaow.to                  2.2.1      345.51           6          I               141, y      Tototal alt. il,nCI Ctlonsig f                        'Am4       3,0        2.60411    2,416                10.3W
Fotal  til  race wio-agoe's                      300.217    319.350          4          3               171,007            Total .of v.iC. ml.oocls                      3.494       3.942      4.3.1      4,392          0     31.01
PtL187 UI SDI17                                        0    Z30.0041  2.30.40    22.04        2800      621.00MA           PILOt CEBIT 306PIE                                 0      1.305      6.280      1.210      8.33      35.32
totalNt sol. oazalsl CToittgst,                       0    3.10        114,0121   52o.07i    141.2611  T,24,3toal Nils Olscial cw.ttqooco                                    0      12.627     12.910     15S30      17.i24     39.313
P002K  014931(0 FAGILITY                                                                                140.0
TOtAL 1BM1COT                                  3,.8-39  3.M5.100  2,524.202  2.332.1.1   '31,731 L3.709.2o1                 Tilt mg [ost                                13I.19    123.110      731.1ba    78.511I    6,811    61.117
TIlE.L W1e POlICE. tUTIEWICI                   1.224.10  0,334.2609  2,771.319  2.%00044    '27.43 35.li..ii               tOIAL 01T" PIiYICE3. E3T1381C105             351.Od     171,601     77.411     "7.I0      32,344    52.420
iTOTAL 0130 P8352 CUTIUKIIS                    4.9511.739  3.32.10   2.07I.I9  4,339.039    m54.1623.122,Zo                7334, 01T0 PRIC1 OmtIENCTS                  243,317   248,270    130.104    340,396    11L.  11,373640,



6UINEA
LIYESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
. .... ...... ...... ........ .. . .
(USt allmonl
IDA FY ad              Estilate by            Cumulative           Standard
Duarters ending         Duarter             Disbursements       Disbursements
.... ..........      .........          .............        .............                                  ( )INFA            I IV FSTOC            1K    ,EGroF   PROJEC:T
1987  1l                          0.00                 0.00                 0.05 O                                                         inhntud dinhurnmrt whndub
:2                          0.00                 0.00                 0.10
13                          0.18                 0.79                 0.39
14                          0.39                 1.10                 0.78                            n-
1998  :1                          049                  1.67                 1.19
:2                          0.39                 2.06                 1.57 S                            -
:3                          0.49                 2.55                 2.06
:4                          0.59                 3.14                 2.65                            . ..
1989 :1                           0.39                 3.53                 3.23                                                                                   :-
:2                          0.40                 4.21                 3.92                            n-                                                 Fit
:13                         0.40                 4.80                 4.51 _
:14                         0.40                 5.39                 S.10
1990 1:                           0.40                 5.98                 5.69                p.
:2                          0.40                 6.57                 c.27                 ?          t                                        '
:3                          0.40                 7.06                 6.76                                                                ';*
:14                         0.40                 ?.S5                 7.25
199I  t1                          0.40                 7.94                 7.64
:2                          0.40                 8.23                 9.13
:3                          0.40                 B.72                 B.43                           'a-                    .w
:14                         0.40                 9.02                 9.72
1992 II                           0.29                 9.31                 9.02                           1
2                           0.10                 9.41                 9.31                                     6*
13                         0.10                 9.59                                                0 O k.--:                 r  r      .      r  r- r  -r9r
:4                          0.10                 9.60                 9,70                             lIrn            IRON            IROR            Ionp            tORI            11092           1193
1993 :1                           0.10                 9.70                 9.15
:2                          0.10                 9.80                 9,80                                               11    Ciniulnh.u                         I    Stnndoird
Assumed Credit EleEctnveness December 1996
. . ....... ... ...................................... .......... ........
a/ Including refinancing of PPF Advance of US1465,000



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABIlUTAIION PROJECT
OrganIzoalon Chart
r          ,LW~4  G1E5AJ         PLIEG
CCW.Il1IE    |SCII  CMMAl P  C  OrrCE MD5|
COMMI r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MTO
G,IARAL ff  uCtICTOI
FINA?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iMFCLA
I                                         m    - X    AA
tMSICCE 1 P06
Wold SM-3M22 2
WAPM
May 1986



rAMMA
LIVEhW  SBW" R81ABUhLT10I FM1 E
Tuit Quqa                              lb.                      Tradnl  Activity                              Kecatitm                       Sams                           Diratiow                   ft
Cadr  C/D/E                                          240                 An. lubrdry  I4 tualthb                            At TC I/                    7i TraImn                         4 wnthd                   2-4
Livatnck Priuctlio Systal
Liveatock Sector RPhabititAtim
(Prints Vet. Practlm; IlHbrd.
Oman; biuts Sqiply Sta mid
Craelt)
Ca.m  B/C                                            250                 liv. .Sctor RdaelbUltation                     a) At DPE IIQa                   T. Trairu                        (rm 2-day mini             I
(Private Vat. Prectic. llaenis                b) At TC 2/ and                                                   SeV. 1-day   1ins         2-4
MUip. lita s   ply 5y  'Iad                       at DPE iQ.
Credilt).                                         a   P   Q
rcire  D/F                                           V                   Ditto                                             At it)  NW DPE                Sintor Staff                     Say. 1day smions          14
Hn nmm (7mip Repreeetatives                          120                 Ditto                                             Ditto                        Ditto                            Ditto                      1-4
IHerdman rmp Livestork A4ita                          35                 Iqpts ap,oly syatmi; An. lbalth                a) At TC                        Ditto                             1-wek  maIm               1-4
d         1P ndry   vStock Sector              b) At DPC                                                        Sev. I-day mIt             2 4
Hnadai                                           IWe.co                  Liv, Sector Orga,zatiln Private               a) Ouutry vida                    Pxtielw workau                   Pumt                      1-4
Vet. Practices, Ibrdum  Qmip                  b) Ditto                         Redio                            Bleithly 1/2 hr.          2-4
urqut aipply syatem, crditt, An,                                                                                  broadcat
blath mal Iabardry, RL
KHOMnt
Carr B                                                26                 Fcndcs amd  hinapsit;                             Ahbmd                        hbroi                             I to 1.,5 year            1-3
Statistics; Dis s arwl                                                         InstituttIn  and
Vaclmu Prucicticn lab.                                                         Iaboratories
tadhnica; putic; agro-
pastorarmn: MA. rutritani.
Cadre B                                               10                 Ditto ard Stuly tp.                               Ditto                        Ditto ard foreli projects        0.5 to 4 mrnths            14
j/ labs Tmliniu Cmter.
2/ At TC for ITC's Regi's Traim.
WAPA A
June 1985



- 62 -
Annex 4-8
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHkBILITATION PROJECT
Staffing Plan
Staffing Level           Total
B         C         D/E
Central Services
DGE                                    18          1         5          24
Diagnostic Laboratory                   4         4          2          10
Input Supply Center                     I         -          1          2
Vaccine Production Laboratory           4         4          4          12
Strategy and Development Unit          14         -          -          14
Sub-total                        41          9         12         62
Field Services
Kankan and Labe Bases                   4         4          2          10
Provincial Inspections                 16         -          -         16
SPE                                    33        99          -        132
PE                                      -         -        320        320
Labe Training Center                    4         3          3          10
Bee Keeping Center (Lab6)               2         2          2          6
Selection Center (BokQ)                 9         3          6         i8
Sub-total                        68        Ill       333         512
Autonomous Establishments
Farms  11                              16         5         12         33
SOMAPAS (joint ventures)                4         6          4         14
Sub-total                        20         li         16         47
Total Administration                  109       120        345        574
Autonomous Establishments              20        11         16         47
TOTAL                           129        131       361         621
1I Kalaboui, Ditinn, Famoyla. The only project of some importance is the
UNDP/FAO Ndama Breed improvement farm in Boke. The other staff are
distributed among 3 Goverrment Livestock Stations- Kolaboul, Ditinn and
Famoyla- presently run as autonomous production farms but civil servant
staff salaries paid under the National Budget; and the SOMAPAS poultry farm
- a joint public/private venture with seconded Government staff.
WAPAA
May 1986



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementotion Schedule
ACtMIY                 _ _  __   .                                              Pt J |_ P_4 _ |                            M
c >           ~CONeSI llC: tON tlOGQAM_                       ___                                                                                                                           _
11CoI                                                                                         I                        Iii                    uII
AjchitoctwoIl Dougn awNeMycal-Ion~ 0A
B1dding Docurren'l
o dwnirg Evcluatioi A ConfiUct AWUld
~IHICLLS AND C.4IP~TOt                                                                                               flao                  Peploceffn d
I/oinils Co8cvts a |                                  tolorcyCl,                                                                       A W.     V
NL                                                       mm  ux,
L"fl|i IUd~                                              mElEE II             I     I                             F-  -F
110anlfS,, COMMu O2LXJ
V  crfl nl%CttNOduCI  . (  2Ul                                                                                                              { 
Xvs)Kl4;S N       I UT                                   m1 -                              +-                                     -   F- - -
vACCIN~I LAM~PAJGN ij\S1,P.MKM)                  m                                                    -    *.U -        -                                    PWA W    PAW
MALCitjI CAMP9A(~.Il AtSi (LAIR                 -                                                                                                           A WA   'AWA
lI^CAjr,N(,                                                                                      -  -  -                  -                - I-_ _ TI             'WI r, 
see  Annex  4-3            AsJirigiiV Codrf EllocIlivers Docerbef 1980   _W_          Adowancetfo                                                                                         IX
Lktc?C4XO 1q86                                                                                                                                                      vcWC  Bnhlt - 27464



6UIIIEA
LIYESIOtK SECTOR REHAIILIIATION PROJECT
Periecters Used in Herd ProjectiKa (With Project)
hwnh.:::zshhuashz...........a.f..u...so.................                      . -s ass"   asssmssams lagas-saNagaal
I         e       3         4         5              1               8        9        10                  II        12        11        14         Is 15               17          Is        19       20
mgosg  .......... S...... IS 9aaassess Es .a...a,a,, a..I,s,,,, as.I.ea.a.a,a..I.a.a.Ca.a..S,,,,,,,,aI..a.as.a... ,,,,,,,,,,,, as.Bs,,, Sax,,,,, am.s,,.,,..e,,,,gm.Es,, Bs......... Bugs, so.....nless",", .................. U&S,,o,, ,,,**,,""",,"",,""
6IRIH RAIE                0.50      0.5O    0.54      0,51      0.57      0.58        0.51      0.59      0.5a     0.59                 0.59     0.t0      0.t0      0.t0       O.0O      0.60      0.0         0.00      0.40     0.-0
MORTALITY
CALVES HEIFERS            0.33      0.31    0.29      0.23      0.27      0.20        0.20      0.26     0.25      0.25                 0.25     0.25      0.25       0.25      0.25      0.25      0.25        0.25      0.2D     0.25
HEIFERS 11-2)             0.11      0.10    0.09      0.09      0.06      0.06        0.09      0.07      0.07     0.07                 0.07     0.07      0.07       0.07      0.07      0.07      0.07        0.07      0.07     0.07
HEIFERS 12-3)             0.05      0.05   0.045    0.045       0.04      0.04        0.04      0.04     0,04      0.04                 0.04     0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04      0.04        0.04      0.04     0.04
HEIFERS 13-41             0.05      0.05   0.045    0.045       0.04       0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04     0.04                 0.04     0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04       0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04
cows                      0.05      0.05   0.045    0.045       0.04      0.04        0.04      0.04      0.04     0.04                 0.04     0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04      0.04        0.04      0.04     0.04
CALVES WLLS               0.34      0.32    0.31      0.30      0.29       0.28       0.21      02        0.27     0.20                 0.20     0.20      0.20       0.20      0.70      0.20       0.2O       0.20      0.20      0.20
BULLS/STEER 11-21         0.12      0.11    0.10      0.10      0.09      0.09        0.09      0.06      0.08     0.08                 0.09     0.09      0.01       0.08      0.08      0.08      0.08        0.0N      0.0N      0.01
BLALS/STEER 12-3S         0.06      0.03   0.045    0.045       0.04      0.04        0.04      0.04      0.04     0.04                 0.04     0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04       0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04
BIULLS/SIEER 153-4        0.05      0.05   0.045    0.045       0.04      0.01        0.04      0.04      0.04     0.04                 0.04     0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04       0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04
suits                     0.05      0.05   0.045    0.045       0.04       0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04     0.04                 0.04     0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04       0.44       0.04      0.04      0.04
CULLIR6
CALVES HEIFERS            0.00      0.00   000       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0N       0.00                 0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.W0      0.00      0.00
HEIFERS *i-21             0.00      0.00    0.00      0,00      0,00      0.00        0.00      0100      0100     0.00                0O00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
HEIFERS 12-31             0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       3.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00      00        0.00      0.40      0.00       0.40       0.00      0.40      0.00
HEIFERS 13-4)             0.01      0.01    0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01        0.01      0.01      0.01     0.01                 0.01     0.01      0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01       0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01
CowS                      0.09      0,09    0.09    0.095      0.095      0.095       0.10      0.10      0.10     0.10                 0.10     0.10      0.10       0.10      0.10      0.10       0.10       0.10      0.10      0.10
CALVES BULLS              0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
WILLS/STEER  1-21         0.20      0.20    0.20      0.20      0.20      0.20        0.20      0.20      0.20     0.20                 0.20     0.20      0.20       0.20      0.20      0.20       0.20       0.20      0.20      0.20
BULLS/SIEER 22-31         0.40      0.40    0.40      0.40      0.40       0.40       0.40      0.40      0.40     0.40                 0.40     0.40      0.40       0.40      0.40      0.40       0.40       0.40      0.40      0.40
BULLS/SlEER (3-4)         0.50      0.52    0.54      0.55      0.50      0.57        0.56      0.59     0.00      0.00                 0.00     0.t0      0.000 0.00           0.0       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.t0      0.60
BILLS                     0.50      0.52    0.54      0.55      0.50      0.57        0.56      0.59     0.t0      n-.0                 0.00     0.60      0.00       0.t0      0.00      0.t0       0.60       0.60      0. 60     0.t0
MILK ILIIER/COWl            90        92      84       86         98         90         92        94        96       90                   90       96        9b         90        90        900 1                           9 0       90
LIVEHE16HIS
CALVES HEIFERS               0         0       0         0         0          0          0         0         0        0                    0        0          0         0         0          0         0          0          0        0
HEIFERS 1-21                 0         0       0         0         0          0          0         0         0        0                    0        0          0         0         0          0         0          0          0        0
HEIFERS (2-31                0         0       0         0         0          0          0         0         0        0                    0        0          0         0         0          0         0          0          a        0
HEIFERS 13-41              205       205      205      205       205        205        205       205       205      205                  205      205        205       205       205        205       205        205        205      205
CONS                       205       205     205       205       205        205        205       205       205      205                  205      205        205       205       205        205       205        205        205      205
CALVES BtLLS                 0         0       0         0         0          0          0         0         0        0                    0        0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0
BULLS/SIEER  11-21         125       125      125      125       125        125        125        125      125      125                  125      125        125       125        125       125       225         125       125      125
BULLS/SIEER (2-11          165      125       1OS      165       205        205        lbS        1U5      ItS      205                  105      IUS        205      I205       25         205       205        205        2015     25
lUtSL/SIEER (3-41          205       205     205       205       205        205        205       205       205      205                  205      205        205       205       205        205       2n5        205        205      205
BILLS                      245       245      245      245       245        245        24S       245       245      245                  245      245        245       245       245        245       245        245        245      245  
PRICES
LIVENE16HIS T(F/K6)        225                                                                                                                                                                                                                   _
MILK IF6/LITERI             t0
| sst sssssss l|s l ls s lssstlass ssgagaWSssas s sa slsss ssasasssSss sssSsss"8s sassasssawZ4s$ s"Eas^sswl$g$sse$asswnsw$8$$-*8sesssssaWgBWtl*8"WsBlgXWUsWg"........ as, .an"""



WIIIEA
LIVESTOCK SECI0 RENIUILITAIION PROJECI
Pirdntor, Uod an Hord Prujlctau I(ithout Pronctl
.............. ...... s s.e |s .8t.a.|s"| ...... s .|W. . a.ss.wsssa......................................... ...............ss.e*.$
I          2        3         4          5           4           I          I          I        10                    11         12        13         13 4s       15                      t          Is         i         20
1103 ";tA                   0.5        0.54    0.54        .554       0.54       0.5          0.54       0.54      0.54      0.54                   0.5        .         0.54        0.54       0.54       0.54       0.54
tuTU.IT V
CALVES HEIFERS              0.33       0.33      0.33      0.33       0.33       0.33         0.11       0.33      0.13       0.33                  0.33      0.13        0.33       0.11       0.11       0.11       0.13         0.31       O.S1      0.31
HElfERS 11-21               0.11       0.11    0.11        0.11       0.11       0.11         0.11       0.11      0.11       0.11                  0.11      0.11        0.11       0.11       0.11       0.11       0.11         0.11       0.11      0.11
HEIFErs (2-31               0.05       0.05    0.05        0.05       0.05       0.05         0.05       0.05      0.05       0.05                  0.05      0.05        0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05         0.05       O.K       0.05
HElfERS 13-01               0.05       0.05    0.05        0.05       0.05       0.05         0.05       O.K       0.05      0.05                   0.05      0.05        0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05        0.05        0.05       0.05      0.05
cows                        0.05       0.05    0.05        0.05       0.05       0.05         0.05       0.05      0.05       0.05                  0.05      0.05        0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05       001          O.K        O.K5      0.05
CALVES PALS                 0.34       0.34    0.34        0.36       0.34       0.34         0.34       0.34      0.34      0.34                   0.34      0.34       0.34        0.34       0.34       0.34        0.34        0.31       0.34      0.34
UtLS/STEER  11-21           0.32       0.32    0.32        0.27       0.12       0.32         0.22       0.32      0.12      0,12                   0.22      0.12       0.32        0.12       0.12       0.12       0.12         0.32       v.13      0.12
I1LLS/ITEER  12-3)          0.04       0.04     0.0o       0.04       0.00 0.04               0.04       0.04      0.04      0.04                   0.04      0.04       0.04        0.04       0.04       0.04       0.04         0.04       0.04      0.04
1U1111TUER  (3.41           0.15       0.01    0.05        0.05       0.05       0.1          0.05      o0.0S      0.01       0.01                  0.41      0.05        0.    005             0.0        0.01       0.05         0.0s       0.01      0.05
BULLS                       0.03       0.03    0.05        0.05       0.05       0.05         0.03       0.05      0.05      0.05                   0.05      0.05       0.05        0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05         0.05       0.05      0.05
CUtLL1S
CELVES HEfE5                0.00       0.00    0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00         0.00       0.00      000       0.00                   0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00 
REIFERS 112)                003        0.02     0. 00       .         0.02       0.00         0.03       O.2       0.02       0.03                  0.03      0.03        0.01       0.o0       0.02       0.03        0.02        0.03       0.03      0.02
HEfERS  02-.0                          0.04     0.09       0.09       0.0        0.0o        0o.0         .0       0.0o       0.09                  0.0N      0.01        0.0        0.00       0.09       0.0o        0.0o        0.o0       0.09      0.09
HElfERS 13-41               0.01       0.01    0.01        0.01       0.01       0.01         0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01                  0.01      0.01        0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01        0.01        0.01       0.01      0.01
CONS                        o.os       o.eQ     o.oq       o.o9       o.os       0.os         o.o        4.Os      0141      e.os                   o.es      o.o1        0.01       o.os       0.0        O."         O."s        O.         D ."       o."
CALVES PALS                 O.0 X        .0    0 .         OX000 0.0  olo           00        O.0 X      OlX       0.00      O.0 X                    .X  000       0.00       0.00   .0        0.00       O.X0        o.oe        o.w0       o.x       o.x
IUUSL SIEER  11-21          0.20       0.20    0.20        0.20       0.20       0.20         0.20       0.20      0.20      0.20                   0.20      0.20       0.20        0.20       0.20       0.20       0.20         0.20       0.20      0.20
ILaLSISTEiR 12-31           0.40       0.40    0.40        0.40       0.40       0.10         0.40       0.40      0.40      0.40                   0.40      0.40        0.40       0.40       0.40       0.40        0.40        0.40       0.00      0.40
ltLS/SIEEIR  3-43           0.50       0.50    0.50       0.50        0.50       0.50         0.50       0.50      0.50      0.50                   0.50      0.50       0.50        0.50       0.50       0.50        0.50        0.50       0.50      0.50
IULLS                       0.50       0.50    0.50        0.50       0.50       0.50         0.50       0.50      0.50      0.50                   0.50      0.50       0.50        0.50       0.50       0.50        0.10        0.50       0.50      0.50
MILKIL3TIlEiCPI3              so          00       so        g0         g0          s0          g0         00         90        90                    40o        I    10   go          20         10          60         so          60         00         00
LI VEIl 2603
CALVESHEIFERS                  0           0        0         0          0           0           0          0          0         0                     0          0          0          0          0           0          0           0           0         0
HEIFES1113-21                  0           0        0         0          0           0           0          0          0         0                     0          0          0          0           0          0          0           0           0         0
HEIFERS I2-31                  0           0        0         0          0           0           0           0         0         0                     0          0          0          0           0          0          0           0           0         0
HEIFERS (3-43                205         205      205       205        205         205         205        205        205       205                   205       205         205        205        205         205        205         205        205        205
cows                         205         203      205       205        205         205         205        205        205       205                   205       205         205        205        205         205        205         205        20         205
CAIRS BULLS                                0        0         0           0          0           0           0         0         0                      0         0          0          0           0          0          0           0           0         0
OItLS/ITEER (2-2)            3:5         325      (25       325        325         125         132        125        325      1225                   12525  325            2     25  2225                    325       1221         325         325       121
IURLLS1STEE  312-i           145         145      345       345        245         245         345        345        345       245                   145        245        345        245        245         34         34!         20 3                 345
fLS/ISTEER 131 4)            205         205      201       205        205        205          205        205       205        205                   205       205         205        205        205         205        205         205        205        205
BtLLS                        245        245       245       245        245        245          245        215       245        245                   265       245         245        245        245         245        245         245        245        245      -  U
LIVEWE1S6HS (P6FKIB          225
OILI IIILIlEPll                40
............ ............ 0.................................                                                                                                          .............. 8888488.206 .........lll||glWsasaaass ll saass-sese@8$||g|s.................................................. es |lta
WAPM
may  1986



8UINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of ProJect Impact
PROJECT                                             WITHOUT PROJECT                                     INCREMENT
HERD              OFF TAKE  MEAT        MILK       HERD                OFF TAKE   MEAT       MILK                   SALES      MEAT       MILK
YEAR         PROJECTION  SALES       RATE                       PROJECTION   SALES        RATE
number    number              tons    1000 liter) nucber   number                    tons    (000 liter)            number      tons  (000 lite
I          1,600,000   151,509        9.5%  18,578    28,375 11600,000    151,509           9.5%  18,576   28,375                     (0)       (0)         0
2           1,L12,766   154,634       9.6%  19,025    29,641 1,612,766    153,087           9.5%  18,601   29,918                  1,547       224        723
3           1,636,057   158,522       9.7J  19,472    30,855 1,627,220    154,625           9.5  18,988   29,386                  3,697       484       1469
4           1,675,394   165,9-5       9.9%  20,866    32,467 1,630,914    155,954           9.5%  19,132   29,502                  9,981     1,734       2965
5           1,708,413   170,428    10.0%  20,866    33,412 1,b49,266    157,251             9.5X  19,287   29,603                 13,177    1,579        3809
6           1,760,382   176,433    10.0%  22,B25    35,451 1,659,461         158,376        9.5%  191435   29,770                 18,057    3,390        5681
7           1,814,145   186,249    10.3%  23,587    37,121 1,670,037    159,400             9.5%  19,567   29,993                 26,649    4,020        7138
8           1,864,765   192,680    10.3%  24,417    36,935 1,680,720    160,400             9.5%  19,691   30,185                 32,280    4,726        8650               a'
9           1,916,908   199,577    10.4X  25,101    40,583 1,691,380    161,419             9.5%  19,814   30,372                 38,158    5,287       10211
10         1,979,006   205,180    10,4%  25,871    42,429 1,702,137    162,447              9.5%  19,940   30,559                 42,733    5,931       11870
11         2,043,518   211,748    10.4%  26,729    43,661 1,712,764    163,477              9.5%  20,067   30,751                 48,271    6,662      12910
12         2,116,284   219,970    10.3%  27,699    45,653 1,1723,576    164,408             9.5%  20,914   30,947                 54,562    6,785       14706
13         2,188,220   227,019    10.4%  2B,687    47,006 1,734,460    165,545              9.5%  20,312   31,142                 61,474    8,375      15864
14         2,261,452   235,081    10.4X  29,678    48,522 1,745,409    166,590              9.5%  20,499   31,339                 68,491    9,179      171B3
15         2,335,960   243,118    10.4%  30,674    50,061 1,756,423    167,642              9.5l  20,578   31,536                 75,476   10,096       19525
16         2,413,339   251,199    10.4%  31,685    51,765 1,767,507    168,700              9.51  20,708   31,135                 82,499   10,977      20030
17         2,493,261   259,473    10.4%  31,685    53,48  1,778,662    169,765             9.5%  20,839   31,936                 89,708   10,846      21552
Is         2,575,842   268,052    10.4%  32,730    55,260 1,789,088    170,836              9.5%  20,970   32,137                 97,216   11,760      23123
19         2,661,035   276,936    10.4%  33,914    57,077 1,801,185    171,914              9.5%  21,103   32,340                105,022   12,711      24737
2Q!         2,749,051   286,108    10.4%  34,935    58,965 1,812,552    172,999             9.5%  21,236   32,544                113,109   13,699      26421
WAPAA
May 1986



6UIIEA
LIVESTOCK SECIOR REM1ILITATI11 PROJECT
Avtragt Net Inoau  ol a Htrdsan olth
10 Cattle lin FB '000)
Year                                 1          2          3          4           S          &          7          9          S         10         11         1;          13         14         is        I          17         Is         19         20
.. ......................................... ............................................................................. .. ..................................................................................................... .................................
CASH OUTFLOW
Li,estact ioputs                  0.2         0.3        0.4        0.5        0.7        1.0         1.3        1.4        1.6        1.7        1.9        2.1        2.2        2.2         2.3        2.4        2.5        2.5        2.6        2.7
Services                          0.2        0.3         0.4        0.5        0.7        1.0        1.3         1.4        1.6        1.7        1.9        2.1        2.2        2.2        2.3        2.4         2.5        2.5        2.6        2.7
Total                       0.4        0.6        0.9         1.1        1.4        1,9        2.5        2.9        3.2         3.5        3.9        4.1        4.3        4.5        4.         4,8        4.9        5.1         5.2        5.4
CASH INFLOW
Sales tvith project)             50.8       52.3       53.5        55.3       56.6       59.3       60.9       62.9       65.3        67.3       69.0       71.3       73.6       76.0       79.4       90.9       913.3       85,9       1.5        91.2
Sales lwlthout project)          50.9       51.5       51.6        51.6       51.6       51.6       51.6       51.6       51.6       51.6        51.6       51.6       51.6       51.6       51.6       51.6       51.6       51.6       51.6        51.6
IncreaeAt                    0.0        0.9         1.9        3.6        5.0        617        9.2       11.3       13.6       15,6        17.4       19.1       22.0       24.4       26.9       29.2       31.7       34.3       36.9       39.6
BALANCE                              -0.4        0,2         1.0        2.7        3.6        4.9        6.7        9.4       10,5       12.2        13.6       15,6       17.7       I9R9       22.2       24.4       26.5       29.2       5l.7       54,2
CUIIUlAIIVE                         -*04        -0.2        0.9         3.5        7,1       11.9       19.6       27.0       37.5       49.7       63.3        79.9       96.5      116.4      138.6      163,0      109.8      219.0      250.7      294.9
WAPAA
May 1986
LJi
wn



- 68 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION CREDIT
Economic Analysis
Prices
1.        Since April 1984, herdsmen are free to market cattle and meat
domestically and internationally. The average market price of meat is
about FG 550 per kg of meat. This price relates closely to the imported
price of beef (with bones), about US$1.5 per kg (or FG 540 per kg at the
exchange rate of FG 360 to the US dollar). A farmgate price of FG 225 per
kg of liveveight (in constant 1985 price) is used for the economic
analysis.
2.        Milk prices of between FG 55 and 65 per litre are observed
throughout Guinea. Milk is seldom sold far from its point of production
(generally in the village or at the roadside) and is not subject to
Government regulation. A value of FG 60/litre of milk at farmgate has been
taken in the economic analysis which corresponds to the imported price of
milk about US$0.17 per litre.
Exchange Rate
3.        All prices and costs converted using an estimated equilibrium
exchange rate of FG 360=-USS1. Conversion factors are not estimated due to
the lack of data.
Analytical Assumptions
4.        In calculating the Project's economic rate of return, only the
Project's direct quantifiable benefits, i.e. meat and milk production of
cattle herd, have been taken into account. All project costs, net of taxes
but inclusive of physical contingencies, have been included. Cost of
livestock inputs have been projected for 16 years after project
implementation period taking into account of additional creations of
herdsmen's associations and some incremental stock. Other project
activities are maintained at PY5 levels from PY6 onwards and that no
further improvements to the livestock service's impact upon productivity
are achieved. The resultant cost and benefit streams are presented on page
3 of this Annex.



- 69 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
Economic Rate of Return
5.        Under the above assumptions, the Project's economic rate of
return (ERR) is estimated at 14%.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.        The effect upon the Project's economic rate of return under
various sensitivity tests is as follows:
ERR (%)
1.   Point Estimate                                         14
2.   Variations in Cost and Benefit
Cost               Benefits
Plus 10%             Unchanged                         12
Less 10%             Unchanged                         16
Unchanged            Plus 10%                          16
Unchanged            Less 1OZ                          11
Plus 10%             Less 1OZ                          10
Plus 10%             Lagged one year                    9
3.   Switching Values    (at 10%)
Cost must increase by 17%
Benefits must decrease by 15%



GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sumary of Econoaic Costs and Benefits
360.00                                               lin FB million)
Project    Capital    Livestock   Operating       Total                     With      Wit'hiout    Incremetal                Net
Year       Cost        Inputs       Cost        Cost                   Project      ProJect     Benefits                 Benefits       ERR MXI
1        1,616.72      191.22       100.89    1,909.83                 8,133.00    8,133.00         0.00                (1,909.93)          14
2        1,453.50       165.30      126.06    11744.86                 9,364.00    9,243.00       121.00                (1,623.96)
3          615.27      221.90       139.85      977.02                 8,592.00    8,336.00       256.00                  1721.02)
4          56B.67      2?4.61       147.60    1,010.8B                 86994.00    8,393.00       601.00                  (409.88)
5           62.63      387.75       939.46    1,389.84                 9,227.00    8,452.00       775.00                  (614.841
6            0.00      479.06       939.46    1,419.53                 9,604.00    8,514.00    1,090.00                   1328.531
7           62.63      528.47       939.46    1,530.56                10,128.00    8,572.00    1,556.00                     25.44                             0
9          139.44      564.15       939.46    1,642.06                10,495.00    9,627.00    1,868.00                    225.94
9           62.63      599.83       939.46    1,601.93                10,887.00    8,681.00    2,206.00                    604.07
10           0.00      635.52       939.46    1,574.98                11,235.00    8,736.00    2,499.00                    924.02
11          62.63      662.97       939.46    1,665.06                11,575.00    81791.00    2,784.00                  1,119.94
12         138.44      662.97       939.46    1,740.87                11,991.00    8,847.00    3,144.00                  1,403.13
13          62.63      662.97       939.46    1,665.06                12,409.00    9,903.00    3,505.00                  1,839.94
14           0.00      662.97       939.46    1,602.43                12,841.00    9,959.00    3,992.00                  21279.57
!5          62.63      662.97       939.46   13665.06                 13,277.00    9,015.00    4,262.00                  2,596.94
16         138.44      662.97       939.46    1,740.87                13,724.00    9,072.00    4,652.00                  2,911.13
17          62.63      662.97       939.46    1,665.06                14,177.00    9,130.00    5,047.00                  3,381.94
I9           0.00      662.97       939.46    1,602.43                14,645.00    9,167.00    5,456.00                  3,055.57
19          62.63      o62.97       939.46    1,665.06                15,129.00    9,245.00    5,884.00                  4,218.94
20         138.44      662.97       939.46    1,740.87                15,631.00    9,304.00    6,327.00                  4,586.13                          .. 
NPV    3,856.35    3,793.91    5,422.00   13,072.27                 88,351.24   73,052.46   15,298.78                  2,226.51
mID
WAPAA                                                                                                                                                       
blay  1986



12   \   12-             x                              ,                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 1899CR
M  A cRr T A - -                             VS  E    N   E   G   A   L                                    A     L                                                                            M      A    L    I
REHABILITATtON PROJECr                   ,SLEONELEONE,                                                                                                                                      t*7           -
B Rogionol tieenroch ien2ce CePenn t(DRPn) R<  //jv  
VEI t CEPP VDcoinojlon Zone                                        F,rst Category Roads                         First Category Roads  /13-
REGION   Notssnal Regions                       i       ~ -R       ltocaiool Arort                              IntOroetiOTal Airport r+gAoI  
*     Snaeliag Training Caenr              'N      '             Regularly Serviced Atryarts                  Regubnrly Sernicod Airports                I ff    ^re            i   >; *                                  tr
t -5..- Forenr RzetninRo o                                                                                                                      9                                                                      S
8-aivoanohs R Lair Siavennalt4                                    cIoMlEw  of os o ILOtETTRS.ZS0E    i
t: N1 outo Djonr (hillyGrninlp Raresrod.uplond plorono)                                                  |J                                                  I B  E  R  I A           fii ; 
r32    LigisEFo.enrE hTro Snoveonmh,4,,   j-  
cS  ManeTnne Sanesmp   
k- Liglhr Frenr swirh Sceompy Areo;as=Y \   
to                                          J-                                              U          -N'--G           19E



