Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4121-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 8.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 4, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units = Guinean Franc (FG)
US$1.00        =  FG 360 a/
FG 1.00        =  US$0.0027
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA     -         Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en Afrique
(Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
CA        -         Centrale d'Approvisionnement (Input Supply Center)
CBPP      -         Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia
CCCE      -         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DGE       -         Direction Generale de 1'Elevage
SPE       -         Service Prefectorale de l'Elevage
FAC       -         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IRBAG     -         Institut de Recherches et de Biologie Appliquee de
Guinee (Applied Research and Biology Institute of
Guinea)
MDR       -         Ministere du Developpement Rural
(Ministry of Rural Development)
PE        -         Poste d'Elevage (Livestock Post)
RP        -         Rinderpest
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/  The official exchange rate at appraisal in April 1985 was US$1 = sylis
24.4. From October 1985, the Guinean currency, which was changed from
the Syli to the FG, has been floating according to a market-determined
rate, which at the time of negotiations on March 12, 1986 stood at
US$1 = FG 360.



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:      Republic of Guinea
Beneficiarv:   Ministry of Rural Development
Amount:        SDR 8.5 million (US$9.8 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Cofinanciers:  Caisse Centrale de Cooparation Economique (CCCE),
Fonds d' Aide et de Cooparation (FAC) and Banque Arabe de
Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA)
Proiect
Description:   The project would increase the productivity of the Guinean
cattle herd and thereby augment national meat and milk
production, improve nutrition, and raise the standard of
living of cattle-herding families. It would be implemented
over five years and would include: (a) support for the
privatisation process of livestock service through: (i)
establishment of herdsmen's associations; (ii) creation of
an Input Supply Center for the production, purchase,
distribution and sales of livestock inputs; (iii) provision
of a small pilot credit component for the establishment of
private veterinarians throughout the country, for setting up
animal production farms, for herdsmen's associations, and
for distribution of livestock inputs; (b) strengthening of a
reduced public livestock service through: (i) upgrading the
infrastructure of the central livestock department in
Conakry and 33 field offices and provision of equipment,
vehicles and basic materials; (ii) establishment of a
training center in Lab; with a capacity for 40 students for
recycling training of selected livestock staff, practical
training of livestock agents nominated by-4brdsmen's
associations and training of representatives of herdsmen's
associations on group development; (iii) provision of
fellowships for external training of high level staff, and
(lv) provision of equipment and vehicles for annual national
vaccTnation campaigns against common cattle diseases; and
(c) provisions of about 19 staff-years of internationally
recruited specialists and 39 staff-months of short-term
corsultants to assist in project implementation, carrying
out studies related to the sector, and preparing a possible
follow-up project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duti Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Benefits and Risks:
By the tenth year of the project, national beef production would
increase by 30% or 5,900 tons per annum, and milk by 40% or 11,900 tons per
annum, representing a significant improvement in national protein intake.
Net income of herdsmen from cattle is expected to increase by 30X. Through
the establishment of herdmen's associations, the creation of the Input
Supply Center, and the pilot credit scheme, the project would pave the way
for eventual privatisation of livestock service. Through its institutional
and training measures, the project would enable a more effective usage of
the Government's livestock services. The project involves no major
technical risks. The main risks are related to: (i) the implementation of
the staff rationalisation program, and (ii) the willingness of livestock
owners to participate in the project. On the former, risks would be
minimized by the agreement to be reached under the national staff
rationalization scheme, a key feature of the Government's structural
adjustment program. With the liberalization of the cattle market, finan-
cial incentives for herdsmen to participate are judged to be attractive.
Furthermore, they are aware of the benefits of using veterinary services
and inputs and would be willing to pay for them. Thus, the risk would be
minimal.
Estimated Cost:
Summary Project Cost Estimate
(US$ millions)
Local      Foreign    Total
Livestock Inputs                    0.1          2.3       2.4
Pilot Credit Scheme                 0.1          0.9       1.0
Upgrading of Livestock Service      0.7          3.8       4.5
Training                            0.3          2.0       2.3
Vaccination Campaigns               0.1          0.9       1.O
Technical Assistance                0.0          4.0       4.0
Supervision of Construction         0.0          0.3       0.3
Total Base Cost                 1.3         14.2      15.5
Physical contingencies              0.2           0.9       1.1
Price Contingencies                 0.9           4.1       5.0
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes)                2.4         19.2       21.6
Taxes                           0.6          0.0        0.6
Total Cost
(inc. taxes)                  3.0         19.2       22.2



(iii)
Financinz Plan:
Local      Foreign    Total
(USS millions)
IDA                                       9.8       9.8
CCCE                          -           3.8       3.8
FAC                          0.1          1.3        1.4
BADEA                                     4.5       4.5
Government                   2.6           -        2.6
Beneficiaries                0.1           -        0.1
Total                      2.8         19.4      22.2
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1987     1988   1989  1990   1991   1992   1993
----------------- US$ million -----------------
Annual                     1.18 1J  1.47   2.45  2.15   1.77   0.68   0.10
Cumulative                 1.18      2.65   5.10  7.25   9.02   9.70   9.80
11   Including refinancing of a PPF advance of US$465,000.
Economic Rate of Return: 14%
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5701-GUI
Map: IBRD 1899OR



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEN4T ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 8.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA FOR A
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Guinea for SDR
8.5 million (US$9.8 million equivalent) to help finance a Livestock Sector
Rehabilitation project. Additional financing for the project would be
provided by France's Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), and the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (BADEA), in amounts estimated at the equivalent of
US$3.8 million, US$1.4 million, and US$4.5 million, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum (Report No. 4690-GUI) was discussed with
the Government in November 1983 and distributed to the Executive Directors
in February 1984.  This section summarizes and updates its contents,
focusing on changes in Guinea's economic situation and policies in recent
years, notably the far-reaching economic reform program launched earlier
this year and described in the President's report on Guinea's structural
adjustment program (Report No. P-4162-GUI dated January 21, 1986).
Economic data appear in Annex 1.
Political Background
3.        Guinea became independent in 1958 when it opted out of the French
Union. For a quarter of a century, it had a highly centralized politico-
economic system dominated by a single political party led by President
Alnmed Sekou Toure. His death in late March 1984, and the subsequent
assumption of power by a group of military officers led by General Lansana
Conti marked the end of a political era. The present government has
adopted a radically different political orientation which enlarges the
possibilities for close collaboration between Guinea and the Association.
Overview of the Economy
4.        With an area of 246,000 square km, Guinea is well endowed with
arable land and mineral resources, and has promising hydroelectric poten-
tial. It is also one of the world's largest bauxite exporters. A variety
of ecological regions and a favorable climate allow diversified rainfed
crop production besides cattle raising and forestry.
5.        Despite this rich resource endowment, the failing performance of
the Guinean economy over the past twenty five years --as interrupted only in
1973-76, when the economy was briefly stimulated by expanding bauxite
operations. Outside this period, economic growth consistently remained
below the rate of population increase of nearly 3% per annum. Most of



Guinea's 5.9 million inhabitants today live at the margin of poverty. With
an average per capita income of about US$300 in 1985, Guinea is among the
least developed countries as classified by the United Nations.
6.        The economy is severely dualistic as between the official and
non-official sectors. The former, which accounts for about one-quarter of
GDP, functioned until recently through an elaborate system of administered
prices linked to a highly overvalued Guinean syli (24.4 sylis to the US
dollar at the end of 1985, compared with about 400 sylis/US dollar on the
parallel market). It employed some 90,000 civil servants and parastatal
staff. Until December 1985, the remaining three quarters of the economic
output was accounted for by an active non-official sector operating on an
open black market. This market had in recent years met about 80Z of urban
consumer demand and virtually all demand for marketed consumer goods
outside Conakry, the capital.
7.        Agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, accounts for over 40%
of GDP and provides the livelihood for 80Z of the population. Food crop
production has not kept pace with population growth, and cash crop produc-
tion (pineapples and other tropical fruits, coffee and groundnuts) declined
dramatically as lack of price incentives drove many smallholders to
subsistence farming. Animal husbandry is a major activity throughout the
rural sector, though forced marketing policies of the past resulted in most
of Guinea's herd being marketed in neighboring countries. Guinea's commer-
cially exploitable forestry resources have been severely reduced by indis-
criminate logging for sales in Liberia and the Ivory Coast.
8.        Mining and Other Secondary Sectors.  With the decline of its
agricultural exports, Guinea is all but exclusively dependent on bauxite
and alumina for its export earnings. However, its wealth of other mineral
resources, as yet unexploited, represents a major element of the country's
long term development potential. The manufacturing sector, mainly state
owned, consists of agro-industries and producers of construction materials,
chemical products and textiles. It has operated in recent years at only
abcut 15% of capacity, however, and contributed a mere 2Z of GDP.
9.        Major Tertiary Activities have long been dominated at least
nominally by government monopolies, although in practice the private sector
has emerged in some cases to assume a leading role. Freight transport is
an important example. In trade and commerce, state monopolies were
abolished by the new government in 1984 after they had been severely
undermined by the operations of the private sector on the parallel market.
The major case was that of IMPORTEX, a state trading monopoly formerly
charged with the importation of basic foodstuffs and other essential
commodities. The banking sector was until late 1985 entirely state-owned
apart from one small private operation. All six of the state banks were in
practice non-functional due to declining assets and illiquidity and suf-
fered from poor accounting practices and gross overstaffing. They have all
been replaced by new banks established with foreign partners (para.15).



- 3 -
10.       Financial Problems.  The Government's financial situation has
been seriously eroded since 1980, when it was in approximate equilibrium.
Tax and custom duty receipts from public enterprises on food and services
in particular, have declined as the private sector has grown to dominate
consumer trade. Government revenue has consequently stagnated in nominal
terms at a level of 10-11 billion sylis annually in all but one year over
the period 1980-84 and declined to 9 billion sylis in 1985. At the same
time, budgetary transfers to support the enterprises constituted a massive
drain on C-overnment resources, these transfers having represented 30-40% of
receipts in recent years. Even with drastic reductions in subsidies to
public enterprises in 1984, the Government's overall budgetary situation
deteriorated further in 1985.
11.       On the external account, relatively stable export earnings from
bauxite and alumina, coupled with restricted official imports and limited
access to foreign exchange, have consistently enabled Guinea to realize a
trade surplus as officially recorded. These surpluses have been more than
offset, however, by rising net service payments and private transfers
abroad.  Net capital infl%ws have not been sufficient to offset the result-
ing current account deticits. Guinea has consequently suffered continual
increases in its net foreign liabilities since 1979 and accumulated massive
external debt arrears. At US$300 million as of end-1985, these arrears
represented more than 50Z of recorded export earnings for the year.
12.       Guinea's accumulation of foreign debt, largely to finance invest-
ment in infrastructure and public enterprises, has resulted in foreign
payments obligations which are clearly excessive in relation to the
country's debt servicing capacity. Outstanding public external debt had
reached US$1.9 billion as of the end of 1985, of which 74% was disbursed.
Service obligations on this debt were projected to average US$158 million
per annum in 1986-88, as against average annual payments of only US$83
million in the 1982-84 period. In 1985, the ratio of scheduled service
obligations to officially recorded export earnings was 25Z, whereas actual
service payments amounted to only 13%. Tn addition, scheduled debt service
on private non-guaranteed debt represented a further 12% of 1985 export
earnings.
The Government's Economic Reform Program
13.       A comprehensive and far-reaching economic reform program was
prepared during 1985 in close collaboration with IMF and IDA staff. It is
supported by an IMF Stand-by Arrangement of US$36.3 million and IDA and SFA
Structural Adjustment Credits of US$25 million and US$17 million, respec-
tively. A cofinancing package, including Special Joint Financing from
Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany, and bilateral financing from
France, Switzerland and the United States, provides additional assistance
of approximately US$70 million. So far, the implementation of the reform
is satisfactory.
14.       Obiectives of the Reform.  The main immediate objectives set by
the Government were to: (1) correct the serious overvaluation of the



national currency and establish a reliable banking system; (ii) decontrol
prices; (iii) liberalize and privatize internal and external trade; (iv)
create the environment and adequate incentives for smallholder production;
(v) gradually reduce balance of payments deficits; (vi) eliminate heavy
losses in the parastatal sector by leaving commercial, transport and
industrial activities to the private sector and putting the "natural
monopolies" on a sound management and financial footing; (vii) orient
public investments towards supporting the directly productive sectors;
(viii) increase the level of savings in the economy, and (ix) introduce
institutional reforms to improve macroeconomic management.
15.       Exchange Rate Adiustment and the Banking System.  In order to
unify gradually the exchange rate and to enable the private sector to
compete with the public sector on the basis of a unified rate, an exchange
rate adjustment has been carried out in three steps. Following a
three-month period with a second window for private transactions at a fixed
rate close to that of the parallel market, on January 6, 1986, the Guinean
Franc was introduced at par with the syli and the first window rate,
applicable to all public sector transactions as well as the mining com-
panies, was raised from 24.29 sylis/SDR to 300 FG!US$. The second window
rate was increased to FG340 to the dollar. Since January 28, 1986, the
second window rate has been determined at weekly auctions open to all
purchasers and sellers of foreign exchange, excluding those agents operat-
ing at the first window rate. The rate has been relatively stable at FG
340-370/US$. As agreed with the IMF, the Government has now unified the
two rates, which continue to be determined through the weekly auction.
Operations of all of the former state-owned banks ceased on December 22,
1985, and are now in liquidation. Three new banks with foreign participa-
tion - one wholly privately owned - should be able to meet all domestic
banking needs.
16.       Prices and Marketinz.  All internal barriers to the movement of
goods, and compulsory sales by farmers to the state were abolished in May
1984, as were the ENCOBEs (state cattle-trading companies) and the FAPAs
(state agro-pastoral farms). On December 23, 1985, the public marketing
agencies for rice and other foodstuffs (ALIMAG and ALIDI) were abolished.
On January 6, 1986 the price of imported rice and the base pump price of
motor fuel, diesel and kerosene were increased to FG801kg and FG1151liter,
respectively, reflecting international prices at the new exchange rate.
These rice and petroleum product prices will be reviewed and adjusted
quarterly, and are about to be increased again. Transport and energy
tariffs have also been increased to better reflect costs. The Government
has also abolished the monopoly of PROSECO (public enterprise responsible
for trading coffee and palm kernels) and allows private traders to compete
with it in both the marketing and export of coffee. This has already led
to a considerable supply response with 1986 coffee exports running at about
three times last year's level.
17.       Tariff/Tax and Legal Reforms.  On January 6, 1986 the Government
adopted a new tariff regime which provides for a uniform duty rate of 10O
with the exception of rice, which is duty free, and some essential food



- 5 -
items, fertilizer and pharmaceutical products which are subject to a
reduced rate of 5%. In addition, the Government instituted a surtax of
20-30X on specified luxury goods, be they imported or locally produced. It
promulgated a new Mining Code on March 21, 1986 and is preparinig a revised
Investment Code, a Petroleum Code, and a Commercial Law which should be
enacted within the next few months.
18.       Debt Rescheduling.  Guinea's already heavy payments arrears would
have continued to rise substantially in the absence of a major, scross-the-
board debt rescheduling. On April 18, 1986, Guinea concluded negotiations
with the Paris Club. Approximately US$180 million of debt (including
arrears and service payments for the period of January 1986 to February
1987) was consolidated under the agreement. Repayment of 95% of the
consolidated amount is to be made over 10 years, including an average
5-year grace period. The remaining 5% is to be repaid over a 3-year period
beginning end-February 1987. The relief for Guinea amounts to US$23
million for 1986 on the Paris Club debt. However, ths debt service due to
all creditors other than multilateral institutions and the Paris Club in
1986 amounts to a further US$100 million. The Government, is therefore
also seeking the rescheduling of its non-Paris Club debt in the context of
a meeting to be held in Conakry by the end of June 1986, and negotiations
with its eastern bloc and other official creditors.
19.       The Parapublic Sector.  The Government has decided to liquidate
non-performing enterprises and to privatize others in part or completely.
Consultants financed by IDA are now helping the Government coordinate this
divestiture and rationalization program. The program is proceeding satis-
factorily: several industrial companies have been sold and others will be
in the coming months; asset valuation is under way for non-industrial
ventures to be liquidated; and negotiations are underway for the sale of
several companies, thought to be candidates for closure, in which potential
buyers have shown interest.
20.       Public Administration.  Institutional reforms are understandably
moving more slowly but there has been significant progress. With the
encouragement of IDA and IMF staff, an Economic and Financial Coordinating
Committee (CCEF) has been operating since early 1985 to prepare and super-
vise the economic reform process. Economic management has been consoli-
datcd into a new Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation and a
Ministry of Economy and Finance.
21.       Considering the inefficiency of most public enterprises and the
civil service, their overstaffing and the resulting burden on the govern-
ment budget, it is essential to reduce their staff as soon as possible.
The Government has therefore adopted a phased program of public sector
employment reductions. As a first step, the Government has already removed
the 3,000 employees of the former banks from the civil service payroll.
Following the civil service census, recently completed, the Government will
also terminate the employment of all employees hired in an irregular
fashion or listed on the payroll fictitiously or without justification.
The Government is also about to start comprehensive competency testing of



all civil servants, and on the basis of the results, expects to be able to
reduce public service employment by 30,000 by December 31, 1986 below the
number actually on duty on January 1, 1986 (including all employees of the
parastatals envisaged for full liquidation). This testing will begin in
the livestock sector (para. 37). Civil servants and enterprise staff whose
contracts will be terminated will be placed "in reserve" (disponibilite
speciale), eligible to receive their salaries and the subsistence allowance
for six months while they seek new employment.
22.       While the reduction in _ivil service employment would rationalize
to some extent the management of the civil service, the weakness in admin-
istrative capacity goes beyond problems of overstaffing. Most of the civil
servants are inadequately trained, there are no standard procedures for
recruitment to the civil service and no centralized system of personnel
management exists. In addition to the reorganization of the core economic
ministries which is underway in the framework of the IDA Technical Assis-
tance Project, a US$300,000 SPPF advance supports the civil service census
and reorganization, and helps establish controls in MEF over the level of
employment and salaries, consistent with budgetary resources. Components
of several IDA projects identify the training needs of civil servants of
various ranks and undertake appropriate training programs. Other donors,
including UZDP and France, are assisting in this effort.
Medium-term Prosiects
23.       in response to the monetary, price and administrative reforms
being underLaken by the Government and with prudent public investment
policy, overall growth of the economy could exceed 4% per annum on average
through the end of the 1980s, enabling an important 2% annual increase in
per capita incomes in that period. Agricultural growth is projected to
average 3.5% annually over the remainder of the decade. With the expansion
of mining activity outside bauxite and with rehabilitation of viable
industrial enterprises, overall industrial sector growth could rise to an
average annual rate of about 5Z through the end of the 1980s. Further
privatization of trade and other commercial activities should similarly
stimulate growth in the tertiary sector to an average rate of about 4% per
annum. These developments would constitute an important reversal of past
trends in the economy and could enable Guinea to enter the 1990s with
significantly improved prospects for sustained growth and savings. This
will be possible, however, only with consolidation of the public sector
reforms under way, and in particular the establishment of an efficient
public administration which limits its intervention in the economy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
24.       The Bank Group has had 23 operations in Guinea including two Bank
loans totalling USS 73.5 million, two IFC investments totalling US$15.8
million, and 20 IDA credits totalling US$ 262.70 million. Guinea's



- 7 -
disbursement rate of 62% in FY85 (disbursements in relation to the undis-
bursed balance) compares favorably with that of other countries at similar
levels of per capita income and development.
25.       Bank Group Operations Through 1984.  The two loans granted in
FY68 and FY71 supported the bauxite mining project at Boke. This project
was followed by IDA credits in the mid-1970s for pineapple production and
the rehabilitation of roads. Encouraged by the first results of these
projects, the Bank Group began to diversify and expand its lending program,
based upon broad priorities agreed with the Government: (i) rehabilitation
and maintenance of basic infrastructure; (ii) improvement of human re-
sources; (iii) mining development; and (iv) development of the rural
sector. The FY79 First Education Project was very satisfactorily imple-
mented, and provided a sound basis for the Second Education Project, which
is proceeding well. A livestock development project was approved in FY81
(para. 39). The First Power Project (FY81), co-financed with France and
Germany, began the rehabilitation of the Conakry power system. Following
the conclusions of the UNDP-financed Water Resources Master Plan, for which
the Bank was executing agency, a Second Power Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project was launched. It will strengthen the power public
utility and prepare a major hydroelectric project to meet electricity
demand in the early 1990s.  A water supply project (FY79) provided similar
assistance, and was partially the precursor of the Conakry Urban Develop-
ment project (FY84).  The Second Highway Project was successfully completed
in 1984 and Highways III (FY84), which includes the reconstruction of the
country's first priority road link, continues with a third phase of mainte-
nance and rehabilitation under a revamped highway organization. Implemen-
tation of the renovation works under the Conakry Port Project (FY83) is
also on schedule. Public enterprise rehabilitation programs under the
Industrial Rehabilitation Promotion Project (FY81) were initiated, although
the uncertain climate for private investment before the change of go-ern-
ment, and the absence of functioning financial institutions, have limited
efforts under the project to promote small and medium private enterprise.
Other operations to assist efforts to promote private investment include an
IFC loan and investment for the AREDOR diamond mining company, and the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (FY84).
26.       Bank Group Operations Since 1984.  Since 1984, the major change
in policy orientation has enable the Bank to expand its operations in
Guinea. In the agricultural sector, the Government and the Association
have agreed on a policy which emphasizes support for small private
producers, including marketing and financial inrentives, and access to
modern technology and applied research. This led to the preparation of the
5ueckedou Agricultural Development Project and the Agricultural Services
Project, approved by the Executive Directors on November 26, 1985. The
Association's role in the livestock sub-sector is discussed in Part III.
In the mining sector, we are providing technical advice to the Government
for possible diversification of activities, through the Mineral Sector
Management Project approved by the Executive Directors on November 26,
1985.



27.       To support the Government's far-reaching reforms, the Executive
Directors approved a Technical Assistance Project for Economic Management
(Credit 1559-GUI) in March 1985 and a first structural adjustment operation
to Guinea in February 1986 (para. 13) (Credits 1659-GUI and A-l1 GUI). An
IFC equity investment of US$1.0 million was approved for BICI-GUI, a multi-
purpose bank sponsored by the Government and the Banque Nationale de Paris
and one of three new banks established after the closure of the former
state-owned bank (para 15).
28.       Current Assistance Strategy.  The proposed Bank Group lending
program, supported by an expanded program of economic and sector work, is
based on a strategy of encouraging key policy reforms at the national,
project and sector levels. Specific targets are: (a) pzoviding, with
other donors, non-project assistance needed to increase production; (b'
giving priority to policy-based projects that increase private activity
production, particularly in the agricultural sector; (c) introducing
technical assistance directed towards policy reforms, improved economic
management and resource allocation; (d) improving absorptive capacity in
those social and infrastructure sectors which support the productive
sectors, through rehabilitation, and technical and managerial training; and
(e) improving capital flows through the promotion of private direct invest-
ment. Through our support for sectoral strategies and investment programs,
we plan to help the Government mobilize the necessary increased financial
support from other donors, and at the Government's request, will organize a
Consultative Group.
29.       The Bank Group's share of Guinea's disbursed external debt
(public and publicly guaranteed) at the end of 1985 stood at about 11,
compared with 8 percent in 1981. The Bank Group's share of service on
public and publicly guaranteed debt, 6.6% in 1980, is expected to decline
to 3.5% by 1987.
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
30.       Livestock, particularly cattle, are an important element of the
rural economy. Resources comprise about 1.6 million cattle, 450,000 sheep,
445,000 goats, 40,000 pigs and five million chickens. Of the total cattle
population, about 51Z are in Middle Guinea (Fouta Djalon), 27% in Upper
Guinea, 15% in Maritime Guinea, and about 8% in the Forest Region (see
map). The regional dirtribution of sheep and goats is similar to that of
cattle. Pigs are concentrated mainly in the Forest Region. Poultry are
raised throughout the country.
31.       The ownership of cattle is well distributed involving an
estimated 160,000 families (1.3 million people) or 30% of Guinea's rural
population. On average, herd size is about ten animals. Most cattle-
owning families incomes are about, or slightly above, the rural sector
average. Cattle are reared for meat, milk and draft purposes, with the
relative importance of each function partly dependent on geographic



- 9 -
locality. Cattle also represent a means of storing capital for emergencies
and for gifts at weddings and other occasions. Most cattle-owning families
are sedentary, grazing their animals near the village and also growing
crops. Forage resources are generally abundant except for certain more
densely populated regions where, in the dry season, cattle move to another
pasturage.
32.       Guinea's cattle population consists almost entirely of the N'Dama
breed, a small humpless animal with moderate fertility and milk production.
Its most outstanding characteristic is a relative tolerance to trypano-
somiasis, transmitted by the tsetse fly and widely prevalent in much of
Africa. For this reason N'Damas have become much sought after by countries
with humid tropical climates like Guinea's where the disease poses a major
health hazard to less resistant breeds.
33.       Herd productivity in Guinea is low mainly because of poor animal
health. Major disease hazardt are contagious bo!rine pleuropneumonia
(CBPP), anthrax, blackleg, pasteurellosis and rindarpest. Internal and
external parasites can result in serious debilitation, and trypanosomiasis
is a threat particularly to weak animals. Furthermore, the lack of
minerals limits animal growth, and over-milking of cows reduces calf growth
rates and increases calf mortality. Parasites probably cause the most
serious overall economic losses to the livestock sector.
Institutional Structure
34.       Overall responsibility for Guinea's livestock sector lies with
the General Directorate of Livestock (Direction Genirale de l'Elevage, DGE)
in the Ministry of Rural Development (Ministere du Developpement Rural,
MDR). The DGE in Conakry comprises a technical directorate which oversees
33 small prefectoral offices (Service Prefectoral de l'Elevage, SPE), which
are in turn broken down into about 335 sub-prefectures. The intended
function of the livestock technical directorate is to continually survey
the state of animal health, to diagnose disease and give medicines, treat-
ments and vaccinations, and to provide advice on animal husbandry. How-
ever, its performance is currently constrained by inadequate infrastruc-
ture, a critical shortage of equipment and materials for disease diagnosis
and treatment, lack of means of transportation and, most importantly, the
virtual absence of key veterinary inputs such as medicines and mineral
salts. Further, staff quality is low because of inadequate practical
training and also the lack of appropriate on-the-job experience with
veterinary and animal husbandry techniques. The proposed project would
respond to these urgent needs.
Sector Education and Staffinz
35.       Guinea has two intermediate-level livestock colleges and three
higher level facilities. Some senior livestock personnel of the MDR have
studied abroad.   However, their courses were often poorly adapted to
tropical livestock conditions. Most sector staff graduated from national
institutions in which the quality of education is inadequate. They lack



- 10 -
the most basic library, laboratory, and practical training facilities, and
curricula are often only marginally relevant to sector needs. Moreover,
teachers are generally recent graduates of the same institutions who lack
the specialized training and field experience to be effective.
36.       The Government's past policy had been to guarantee jobs to all
graduates of its higher education system. As a result, the livestock
service is overstaffed and enrollments at the educational institutions are
too high. The number of technicians and veterinarians employed in the
sector stood at 1,800 at the end of 1985, while the requirement for an
effective service is about 620. This is a burden on the budget (the annual
wage bill has increased from 77 million sylis in 1983 to about 160 million
sylis in 1985), and substantially decreases sectoral efficiency.
37.       Aware of this problem, the Government has stopped, until 1990,
enrollment in all institutes training rural sector technicians. Under the
ongoing economic reform program supported by an IDA Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC), it has decided to freeze recruitments and began to reduce
civil service staffing levels (para. 21). The Government will implement
testing operations of high and middle level staff in the livestock sector
in order to identify redundant staff. The proposed project would also help
to reorient some redundant staff with marketable skills to productive areas
in the livestock sector through the provision of credit (para. 54).
Sector Financing and Taxation
38.       Funding of the livestock sector is made primarily through the
national budget, which finances about 90Z of sector expenses. This source
is supplemented by the regional budgets which finance some operating costs.
Over 90Z of the national budget contribution is used for paying salaries.
Until recently, government revenues from the livestock sector stemmed
primarily from the "vaccination tax", an inappropriately named assessment
which was essentially an annual cattle head tax of 15 sylis per adult
animal. Collection was based on the annual census conducted by livestock
services which is also used as as basis for estimating vaccination needs.
However, because herdsmen inaccurately report herd size to census takers
and evade the tax collectors, the amount of money obtained annually (4
million sylis) was less than the cost of the collection effort. For this
reason and due to the negative impact of the tax on herdsmen's attitudes
toward the livestock service, the Government eliminated the vaccination tax
in March 1986.
Past Lending Experience
39.       The Association financed a Livestock Development Project in FY81
(Cr. 1063, FY81, SDR 13.3 million) that was to help the Government tackle
the major causes of low cattle productivity. The major activities of the
project included vaccination against common cattle diseases, sales of
medicines and mineral licks to herdsmen, and upgrading of livestock
husbandry and veterinary support services. Project implementation
encountered difficulties from the start due to constraints in local cost



- 11 -
financing and the old regime's resistance to respecting conditionalities
relating to marketing, taxation and overstaffing. In view of the lack of
progress on the marketing issue in particular, IDA suspended disbursements
in April 1983 and the Credit was cancelled in September 1983.
40.       After the change in gover.ment in April 1984, the new leaders
abolished the state livestock marketing agency (ENCOBE) and requested the
Association to reactivate the Credit. In view of this positive development
and the Government's new macro economic and institutional development
policies, the Association agreed to prepare a new project. Lessons learnt
from the cancelled project have been fully taken into consideration in the
design of the proposed project. They relate to sector policy and staffing,
project organization and the availability of local counterpart funds.
Sector Strategy and Rationale for the Association's Involvement
41.       Guinea's livestock services have been ineffective so far due to
poor management and overstaffing. This has contributed to inadequate
funding of operating costs. At the same time, the livestock owners are
increasingly aware of the benefits of controlling common diseases and using
medicines. Moreover, they are prepared to pay for the services themselves.
Consequently, the Government has decided to reorganize livestock services
with increasing reliance on the initiatives of the private sector. How-
ever, under Guinean conditions, where the experience of the private sector
is limited, handing over animal health and husbandry services to the
private sector can only be done gradually. The Government has therefore a
two-pronged approach: (a) introduce and support privatization in the
development of the livestock sector; and (b) strengthen a reduced public
livestock service and reorient it to tasks of public interest such as
vaccination against epidemic diseases, research and extension.
42.       The Association's involvement through the proposed project is
essential to help the Government implement its new strategy and rehabi-
litate a sector with significant potential. It would also provide concrete
examples for the reduction of public sector employment, decentralization of
public sector activities, and the privatization process which are the
Government's main preoccupations in restructuring the economy.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Obiectives and Description
43.       As noted, the project was prepared after the Government had
requested the Association to reactivate Credit 1063 (FY81) which was
cancelled in 1983 (para. 39). The project was appraised in May 1985.
Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1986 with a delegation led by
H.E. Alhousseny Fofana, Minister of Rural Development. The Staff Appraisal
Report No. 5701-GUI is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Supplementary project data appear in Annex III.
44.       The objective of the project would be to increase the produc-
tivity of the Guinean livestock sector thereby augmenting national meat and
milk production, improving nutrition, and raising the standard of living of
some 160,000 livestock-owning families. This would be achieved through (i)
vaccination against common cattle diseases; (ii) provision of medicines,
feeds, and mineral licks; and (iii) upgrading of the livestock husbandry
and veterinary support service. The project would also attempt to create
an environment conducive to privatization of livestock services and pro-
vision of inputs.
45.       The project to be implemented over five years, would have a
country-wide coverage and would include:
(a) Support for the privatization process through:
(i)  the establishment of about 45 herdsmen's associations which
would employ heir own agents for simple animal health
treatments and the sales of livestock inputs (vaccines,
medicines and mineral licks);
(ii) the creation of an input supply center (Centrale
d'Approvisionnement, CA) at Conakry for the production,
purchase, distribution and sale of livestock inputs; and
(iii) the provision of a small pilot credit scheme for
private veterinarians, animal production farms, herders'
associations, and input suppliers.
(b) Strengthening of a reduced public livestock service through:
(i)  the construction and renovation of buildings for the DGE in
Conakry including the diagnostic laboratory, 22 SPE and
provision of equipment, vehicles and basic materials to DGE,
33 SPEs and 320 livestock posts (Poste d'Elevaxe, PE);
(ii) the establishment of a training center in Laba for recycling
training of about 240 livestock staff, training of livestock
agents nominated by herdsmen's associations, and training of



- 13 -
representatives of herdsmen's associations on group develop-
ment;
(iii) provision of fellowships for external training of high level
staff; and
(iv) provision of equipment and vehicles for annual national
vaccination campaigns against common cattle diseases.
(c) Provision of 19 staff-years of internationally recruited
resident specialists and about 39 staff-months of short-term
consultants to assist in project implementation, carrying out of
studies related to the sector, and preparation of a possible
follow-up project.
Project Implementation
46.       Establishment of Herdsmen's Associations.  To decentralize animal
health and husbandry services and to privatize the supply and distribution
of livestock inputs, the project would attempt, on a pilot basis, to
establish herdsmen's associations at the village level. Each association
would consist of about 700 herdsmen, owning about 7,000 cattle, and 4,000
sheep and goats. The group would then nominate its own agent who would be
trained under the proposed project to perform simple treatments of animals
(i.e. vaccination, castration,) and to be responsible for purchases and
sales of livestock inputs to the association's members. The association
would be legally established by the approval of its statute by the Prefet
concerned in each prefecture. A draft model statute would be prepared and
would be available for IDA review and comment by June 30, 1987.
47.       To provide incentives for forming groups, each association would
receive an inItial stock of livestock inputs, including medicines and
mineral licks, free of charge from the CA. The value of the stock would
vary according to the nlmber of cattle in the association but it would not
exceed about US$3,500 equivalent. Sale proceeds from the initial stock,
including a profit margin of about 15% would constitute a revolving fund
for the association (para. 51). It would then be used for stock replenish-
ment, for payment of services of livestock agents, and for constituting the
capital of the association. In addition, the project would provide a small
pilot credit fund of about US$200,000 for the associations to invest in
infrastructure and productive facilities such as stores, water points, etc.
(para. 54).
48.       The project would finance the service of an internationally
recruited expert to work exclusively on group development for about three
years. Assisted by a qualified Guinean who would eventually take over the
task, the specialist would work directly with the herdsmen in forming
groups, draft the model statute for the associations, and help train
livestock staff and the associations' representatives in matters related to
group development. It is expected that about 6 groups would be in



- 14 -
operation by the second year of the Project, 16 by the third year, 30 by
the fourth year and 45 by the fifth year. Similar experiences in the
region show that when herdsmen's associations are created for economic
purposes such as those indicated above, they often work and continue after
the withdrawal of direct support from a project authority.
49.       Livestock Inputs.  Improving animal health and husbandry services
requires increasing the availability of livestock inputs. To this end, the
enactment of a satisfactory statute for the establishment of the Input
Supply Center would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. Government
established the CA in May 1986 with a satisfactory statute. In the begin-
ning, the state will have to be the sole owner. However, the operation and
management of CA would be reviewed annually between the Government and IDA
to examine the possibility of a takeover by the private sector.
50.       The project would renovate an existing warehouse located near DGE
for CA's storage needs and finance the purchases of livestock inputs for CA
for four years. Accumulated sales proceeds, by the end of that period,
estimated at FG 570 million (US$1.6 million equivalent) would be used to
finance the initial stocks of inputs for associations to be created after
the financing period. It would also be used for stock replenishment,
including incremental purchases beyond the project implementation period.
To the extent possible, delivery of livestock inputs to sale points would
be contracted to the private sector and the cost of the private services
has been included in the project cost.
51.       Livestock inputs would be distributed to DPEs, private veteri-
narians, retail shops to be introduced under the project, and pharmacies
for sales on consignment to herdsmen's associations and individual herds-
men. Sale prices of livestock inputs from the CA would include a mark-up
of about 25% that would cover all operating costs, and a profit that would
render CA attractive for eventual takeover by the private sector. Sales
prices from the intermediate distribution points would include a 25%
mark-up for sales directly to individual herdsmen and 1OZ to herdsmen's
associations. Herdsmen's associations would receive a 15% mark-up for
sales of livestock inputs to their members.
52.       CA would import most medicines except for vaccines which would be
purchased from the vaccine production laboratory in Kindia. This labora-
tory which received assistance from UNDPIFAO before 1980, the Association
through Credit 1063 (para. 39) in 1982-83, and UNDP in 1983-84, can poten-
tially meet the vaccine production requirements for the project. The main
constraint to the production is the availability of regular electricity and
water. The project would help rehabilitate this laboratory which has been
largely underutilized. It would provide funds to install a voltage stabi-
lizer and a water storage tank and to purchase basic laboratory material.
The vaccine production unit used to be an integral part of a larger labora-
tory for diagnosis of human disease (L'Institut de Recherches et de
Biologie Appliquee de la Guinee - IRBAG). The administration of the unit
was transferred from IRBAG to DGE in April 1986. The unit would have a



- 15 -
separate accounting system and would be provided with a specialist to help
supervise the productioa process.
53.       Mineral licks would be produced in a small workshop to be located
at Coyah. The workshop, a small building housing a simple mixer and a
small warehouse (about US$70,000), would have four persons initially hired
and paid by DGE during the transitional period until it could be incorpo-
rated into the CA and be taken over by the private sector.
54.       Pilot Credit Scheme.  The line of credit would be administered by
a commercial bank in Guinea. A Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and a commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA would be executed prior to disbursement of the pilot credit funds. The
state would bear the foreign exchange risk. Each loan category would be
subject to the following limits: (a) US$170,000 for the establishment of
private veterinarian practices with each loan not more than US$8,000; (b)
US$500,000 for the animal production farms with each loan not more than
US$10,000; (c) US$200,000 for the herdsmen's associations with each loan
not more than US$10,000; and (d) US$150,000 for setting up retail shops
with each loan not more than US$3,500. Financing terms would vary accord-
ing to types of loans and interest rates would vary between 8 and 12%.
Participants, who would be screened for suitability, would have to contri-
bute at least 10 of the investment costs. Each loan application would be
scrutinized by the SPE concerned and forwarded to DGE for review. A
committee consisting of the Director of DGE, Technical Director and
Financial Director would be established for this purpose. The loan appli-
cations would then be forwarded to the commercial bank for decision. The
commercial bank would be responsible for repayment collection and would
bear the commercial risk. The first two of each type of loan, except for
those to herdsmen's associations which would be financed by CCCE, would be
subject to IDA approval.
55.       UpRrading of Public Livestock Service.  While private veteri-
narian services are being developed, the livestock administration of the
MDR would play an important role in improving animal health and provision
of inputs. The staff would be reduced from the current 1,800 to the
required 620 according to a satisfactory staffing plan based on the results
of tests administered to all livestock staff and incentive measures (para.
21). The submission of the staffing plan with a satisfactory calendar for
the retrenchment of the redundant livestock staff will be a condition of
Credit effectiveness. The Government would not change the agreed plan
without IDA's prior consent during the project implementation period.
56.       The DGE would be responsible for detailed implementation of the
project's activities. An Administration and Finance Department, headed by
a Financial Director would handle project finances, accounts, procurement,
personnel and credit. A Technical Department, headed by a Technical
Director would consist of four main Divisions: a Monitoring and Statistics
Division; a Training Division; an Animal Husbandry Division; and an Animal
Health Division.



- 16 -
57.       In the eight provinces, provincial inspectors would supervise and
coordinate activities of all SPEs in their respective provinces. At the
prefectoral level, there would be SPEs (33), each headed by a prefectoral
director. Each SPE would be staffed with a deputy director, an accountant,
and a meat inspector. There would be about 320 livestock posts (PEs) at
the sub-prefectoral level.
58.       PEs would operate as general extension agents covering not only
the treatment of sick animals but also general husbandry practices, nutri-
tion and genetic improvement. SPEs, reporting directly to the Technical
Director would supervise and support field activities of PEs. In addition,
when privatization of livestock services, including provision of inputs, is
being developed, each SPE would be responsible for the ordering, storage,
distribution and accounting of the livestock inputs, and meat inspection.
In May 1986, the Government issued an arrete reorganizing the DGE as stated
above (para. 56). Changes of the organizational structure of public
livestock service which would affect project execution would be agreed with
IDA. The Director General of Livestock would be appointed prior to Credit
effectiveness, and the Director of the Labe training center no later than
June 30, 1987. The above positions would be staffed with Guineans whose
qualifications and experience would be acceptable to IDA.
59.       Training.  Three types of training would be provided under the
project: (a) upgrading skills of livestock staff through intensive recycl-
ing courses in the country and fellowships for external training of senior
staff; (b) practical training of agents of herdsmen's associations in
simple treatments of animals such as vaccinations, castrations etc; and (c)
management training for herdsmen's associations (president, secretary,
treasurer). Additional informal training would be provided through
periodic seminars and on-the-job collaboration with the project's interna-
tionally recruited specialists. Detailed planning and implementation of
the training program would come under the responsibility of the Training
Program Director, who would be an internationally recruited training
specialist, assisted by a qualified Guinean, the specialist on associations
and a small group of teaching and demonstration staff in Labs. An annual
plan for the training and fellowship program would be prepared and
presented to the Association for approval at least two months before the
start of each fiscal year. Training would be undertaken primarily at a
40-person capacity recycling center to be constructed at Labe, the main
livestock rearing region in Guinea. At the end of their training, the
livestock staff having benefitted from the four to five months intensive
recycling courses would return to their former posts and would receive
follow-up training on specific subjects at SPE headquarters. Practical
training for nominated agents would last about one week at the Labe center
and the courses would be customized according to the needs of the group.
Training on group development would be about one day at SPEs and would
concentrate on the operation of an association. It is expected that about
240 livestock staff, 40 herder groups' agents and 70 herder groups' repre-
sentatives would be trained under the project.



- 17 -
60.       Higher level staff would receive fellowships for training abroad.
Funds have been provided for about 20 medium term (one year) fellow.ships
and 30 shorter term visits or courses (one to three months). Adminis-
tration of the fellowship program would be handled by the DGE in liaison
with the General Secretariat of MDR. Identification of training needs and
selection of candidates would be handled by a small committee of senior
project staff which would report to the General Secretary of MDR. The
Government would assure that trainees benefitting from fellowships would
return and work for the livestock sector for at least two years.
61.       National Vaccination Campaign Program.  The project's vaccination
program would aim at providing countryside prophylactic coverage against
the major cattle health hazards such as contagious bovine pleuropneumonia
(CBPP), and rinderpest (RP). The program would consist of about 600,000
vaccinations against CBPP and 160,000 against RP per year. The planning
and coordination of national vaccination campaigns would be carried out by
two separate bases located in Labe and Kankan, respectively under the
overall direction of the DGE. Each base would have a Coordinator who would
have full field responsibility for the day-to-day operations of his staff,
the supply and storage of vaccines, and liaison with the DGE, SPEs and the
CA. Most vaccinations would take place in the rainy season from May to
October, aboat 15 days in each prefecture. Vaccinations in the dry season
would take place from November to April only in remote areas not accessible
during rainy season and for calves under six months.
62.       Technical Assistance.  A total of 19 staff-years of resident
technical assistance is required to assist Guinean staff in specialized
activities for which local expertise is limited. This includes: (i) a
Technical Director, a livestock specialist for three and a half years; (ii)
a Financial Director, a financial analyst for four years; (iii) a Training
Program Director, a training specialist with experience in the livestock
sector for three years; (iv) a specialist with experience in setting up
herdsmen's associations for three years; (v) a laboratory specialist for
vaccine production for two years; (vi) a specialist for the diagnostic
laboratory for a year and a half; and (vii) a specialist in the input
supply system for two years. These specialists would initially perform
their project responsibilities as line managers in their assignments, but
would increasingly function in an advisory role so as to provide a smooth
transition of responsibilities. In order to encourage the transfer of
expertise to Guinean cadres, the terms of reference of all specialists
place strong emphasis on the capacity of expatriates to assist counterpart
staff to acquire their specialist skills.
63.       The project would finance the services of an architect for the
supervision of construction during the first two years. About 39 staff-
months of additional specialists on a short term basis have also been
included under the project. This would cover needs as they materialize in
areas such as the diagnostic laboratory in Conakry, the inputs supply
system, livestock regulation, studies in agro-pastoralism, slaughter
houses, and the preparation of a follow-up project.



- 18 -
64.       All resident technical assistance staff (except for the labora-
tory vaccine specialist) and about 19 staff-months of short term consul-
tants, -would be employed according to procedures acceptable to CCCE and FAC
after consultation with IDA on the individuals. The terms of employment of
the vaccine laboratory specialist, and of about 20 staff-months of short
term consulting services that would be financed by IDA would follow IDA
guidelines for selection of consultants.
65.       Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles.  Vehicles, equipment, and
a stock of spare parts would be procured during the first two years of the
project. Spare parts would be replaced as required. First level mainte-
nance of vehicles would be provided by three workshops established under
the project at Conakry, Labe, and Kankan. The establishment of private
maintenance workshops throughout the country is being studied under the
ongoing Third Highway project (Cr. 1457, US$28 million, FY83) and the
resulting recommendations would be addressed in future IDA lending opera-
tions.
66.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Monitoring and Statistics Divi-
sion in DGE would be responsible for monitoring project progress and for
its analysis (para. 56). A base line pre-project was financed under the
PPF advance. During project implementation, data collection would be
streamlined. Census-type collection of data which is currently being
carried out annually would be substantially reduced in frequency in favor
of statistically based sample surveys. The pre-project study and the
information collected during project implementation would form the basis
for an evaluation study to be carried out by MDR's Strategy and Planning
Office, financed under the Agriculture Services project (para 26). The
Government and IDA would carry out a mid-term joint evaluation of the
project before December 31, 1989.
67.       Cost Recovery.  Charges for livestock inputs would reflect the
imported cost of the products and a mark-up of 50% which would cover
purchase and distribution costs, and provide a margin high to attract the
participation of the private sector. Veterinary treatments by livestock
staff would also be initially charged at levels covering cooperating costs
and reflecting adequate margin for the private sector.   In May 1986, the
Government issued an arrete authorizing to sell livestock inputs and charge
for veterinary treatments. A study, to be carried out under PPF financing,
would determine the appropriate level of charges. The setting of tariffs
for the supply of inputs and services to herders would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness. Annual review of the charges would be carried out
between the Government and IDA and upward adjustments would be made If
necessary after taking into account livestock owners' ability to pay.
Under the proposed project, vaccination against common cattle disease would
be free so as to ensure total coverage whenever needed. However, a review
of the implications of the direct charges for vaccinations against CBPP and
RP would be carried out by December 31, 1988. Results of the review would
form the basis for future cost recovery policy. The Government would also
propose measures to improve tax collection in the sector by June 30, 1987.



- 19 -
These would compensate for the loss of revenues due to the abolition of the
vaccination.
Prolect Cost and Financing
68.       Total project costs are estimated at US$22.2 million (US$21.6
million net of tax), of which US$19.1 million or 87Z are in foreign ex-
change. Cost estimates do not include any local staff salaries as the
project would not create incremental employment. Base costs are expressed
in September 1985 prices. Physical contingencies of about US$1.0 million
have been included. Allowances for expected price increases, amounting to
US$5.0 million, have been calculated on the following basis: 7.0Z for
1986-1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6Z for 1990 and 4.5% for 1991,
for foreign costs; and 20% for 1986 and 12% for 1987-1990 for local costs.
69.       CCCE would finance US$3.8 million equivalent for the foreign cost
of equipment and operating costs for the Labe training center, light
vehicles, the pilot credit component for herders' associations, and all
resident technical assistance except the vaccine specialist (to be financed
by IDA), and the technical director, the livestock association specialist,
and the training expert (to be supplied by FAC, US$1.3 million equivalent).
BADEA would finance US$4.5 million equivalent for the foreign ccst of
construction and renovation of buildings. IDA would finance US$9.8 million
equivalent for the foreign costs of buildings, livestock inputs, other
vehicles, equipment for other project entities, short-term technical
assistance and the resident vaccine production specialist, overseas train-
ing, and pilot credit for veterinarians, production farms and input
suppliers. The effectiveness of the financing agreements between the
Government and the CCCE, FAC and BADEA would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The proceeds of IDA Credit under the pilot credit scheme
would be onlent to a commercial bank at an interest rate of 5% for a period
not longer than 15 years including a maximum grace period of four years.
Procurement and Disbursements
70.       Procurement.  Procurement of livestock inputs (US$3.1 million),
and vehicles and equipment (US$2.6 million) would be subject to interna-
tional competitive bidding according to IDA guidelines. The construction
of buildings (US$5.5 million) to be financed by BADEA, has already been
awarded according to ICB procedures consistent with World Bank guidelines.
All bidding packages for IDA financed goods over US$50,000 and works over
US$100,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documenta-
tion. A table detailing procurement arrangements is in Annex IV.
71.       Disbursements.  Proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed
over a period of six and a half years. Disbursement have been based on the
country profile, slightly modified to take into account the prefinancing of
activities that would allow a quick start-up of project implementation, and
of the fact that awards for civil works would be made prior to Credit
effectiveness. The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed for: (i) 100% of
foreign cost of vehicles and spare parts, equipment and livestock inputs;



- 20 -
(ii) 100l of expenditures on technical assistance and short-term consul-
tants; (iii) 1001 of the cost for fellowships; (iv) 1OOZ of the amount of
goods and services financed under the pilot credit program; and (v) 50Z of
the total operating costs. After refinancing of the PPF advance of
US$465,000, an amount of US$965,000 would remain unallocated. Disburse-
ments against operating costs would be made against statements of expendi-
tures (SOEs). Documentation of SOEs would not be submitted to IDA but held
by DGE for review by IDA supervision missions and auditors. All other
disbursements would be fully documented.
Special Account and Revolving Fund
72.       To provide the flexibility to finance certain items and materials
purchased directly for the project, and for the direct financing of some
fellowship costs and short term consultancies, a special account in foreign
exchange, equivalent to US$100,000 would be established at a commercial
bank in Conakry. IDA would replenish the account on receipt of satisfac-
tory evidence of disbursements from the fund for allowable expenditures.
To meet the needs of local expenditures, the Government would open a local
currency account for the project at a commercial bank in Conakry. Require-
ments in local currency would be estimated quarterly and would form the
basis upon which the local currency account would be replenished and
maintained. The opening of this account and an initial deposit of an
amount equivalent to US$300,000 into the account, covering the first six
months of project implementation, would be conditions of Credit effective-
ness.
Financial Procedures, Reporting and Audits
73.       The project's financial planning and control functions would rest
upon appropriate budgetary procedures and accounting systems supported by
annual audits. The accounting system would include both financial and cost
accounting with particular emphasis upon inventory control and unit costs
of production.  The latter would be of importance for the provision and
sales of livestock inputs under the p:oject. A study was carried out under
PPF financing to design such a system which would be set up prior to
Credit effectiveness.
74.       DGE would keep separate accounts for the project.  Accounting for
livestock inputs would be kept separate from the accounts for other project
expenditures. Project progress reports would be produced quarterly and
annually. Annual audit reports prepared by an independent auditor under
procedures acceptable to IDA would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of each financial year. The audit report would include specific
verification of the legitimacy of all expenditures utilizing the foreign
exchange special account.
Recurrent Costs and Government FinancinR
75.       The project would increase recurrent costs (salaries excluded)
for the Government from its present level. The Government is expected to



- 21 -
finance 502 of the operating cost (salaries excluded) which would amount to
about US$0.2 million equivalent per year. This would not impose a heavy
burden on the budget. As time progresses, the Government will be able to
make a larger contribution to the operating costs, which will also decline
with the privatization process stimulated by the project. However, in the
medium term, the rehabilitation of the sector will continue to depend on
outside support. As the pace of the privatization process would only be
known after a few years of project execution, and with the implementation
of measures to improve cost recover1 (para. 67), a clearer picture of
government financing of the sector could be developed. Therefore, by
December 31, 1988, a review would be carried out to determine the balance
between the operating and salary costs for the sector, and the means to
ensure post-project sustainability.
Benefits and Risks
76.       The project's directly quantifiable benefits will result from
substantial improvements in cattle productivity. Through the project's
vaccination coverage, provision of livestock inputs, and improved veteri-
nary and animal husbandry services, national beef production is expected to
increase by 30X or 5,900 tons per year (tpy) by year 10, and by 65Z or
13,700 tpy by year 20. Milk production would increase by 40X or 11,900 tpy
by year 10, and by 80Z or 24,700 tpy by year 20. This would represent a
significant improvement in the population's protein intake. Almost all of
Guinea's cattle-owning families (160,000) would benefit from the improved
animal health and husbandry measures included in the project. Average net
income from cattle (in 1985 terms) of Guinean herdsmen are expected to
increase by 302 by year 10 and 772 by year 20.
77.       Through the pilot credit program, herdsmen's associations, and
the input supply system, the project would pave the way for the eventual
privatization of livestock services. If successful, the model could be
replicated on a larger scale and most costs of livestock inputs and
services could then be transferred to livestock owners. This would help
reduce budgetary expenditures on a productive sector that could be and
should be self-supporting. Furthermore, through its institution strengthen
ing and training activities, the project would rationalize the staffing and
management of the public livestock service to enable the more effective
usage of Goverment's resources.
78.       The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 142.
The project will remain viable at 112 under a combined assumption of a cost
increase of 102 and a delay of benefits by a year. Benefits would have to
decrease by 15Z or costs to r'se by 172 before the project's ERR falls
below 102. However, it is unlikely that this would happen as the
uncertainty relating to the cost of construction has already been reduced
through contract tendering.
79.       The project involves no major technical risks.  The main risks
relate to: (i) the implementation of the staff rationalization program
(para. 50); and (ii) the willingness of livestock owners to participate in



- 22 -
the project.  On the former, risks would be minimized by the agreements to
be reached under the national staff rationalization scheme, a key feature
of Government's structural adjustment program. With the decontrol of
cattle marketing, financial incentives for herdsmen to participate are
judged to be attractive. Furthermore, they are aware of the benefits from
using veterinary services and inputs and would be willing to pay for them.
Thus, the risk would be minimal.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
June 1986
Attachments



- 23-                                             AN I
rAcia of 6
czZIli                -  CfiA   =4       m          (WIM-^ERCS) 7-0
mm                       (MST UCDII STINAT) l
or~~~U    Knew AFIC                   M"l  [WucaM
1awOtk     1oiLb                  Lou     :                N O  LU  IC    . W u AU
mmA C         qI EQ. me
TOTAL                             245.9       245.9      245.9
ACCLUmAL                           4.0         5.7        45.7
cwM cern (un)                          ..         ..        300.0              339.1                  1033.
CKII0UANS OP OIL EUVUIT)           35.0        53.0       54.0               2.3                    M31.$
MPAUM A  IT3L nEW
POPULATION.NI-IEAR, (TOUSANDS)   3350.0      4490.0      330A
Uw    POUITIOU (S 0 TOTAL)         9.3        13.9       23.0              20.1                     32.0
POPtLATION PMiEcCrLOuS
rOPULATION IU VW 2000 (KILL)                             ..3
STATIONAIT roWUATKON (HELL)                             25.0
IPOPULATION NIUSUTU                                      3 .8
PMLATION  USITY
ru sq. I.                        135.7       i.3        23.7              33.2                     35.1
Pr  SQ. MB. A01t. LAID           37.5       9.2        125.0             112.8                    124.3
POPULATIOvN sAM ciweu  (Z)
0-14 YES                        42.0       42.5        43.3               4.0                     45.J
15-" Tis                          53.1      54.3       53.2               S0.S          *          51.5
65 AND AlOVE                      2.S        2.3         3.1               2.9                      2.7
POFULAZoM GEOVW UTZn CZ)
TOTAL                             1.1        1.5         2.0               2.3                      2.9
UR11                              7.0        4.9         5.1               3.4                      5.1
CRUDE IURTH RATE CM T1O0S)         ".0        43.0        47.0              47.2                     47.0
CRUDE DRAIN aTZ (NMU T10S)         30.3       2S.9        24.7              11.                      15.0
GNU RuEPRoUCTION la                 2.9        2.9         3.2               3.3                      3.2
FANILT PLANNIN
ACCtPT95 S. ASUDAL (TOM)          ..
USERS Z Of  AR   MGM)             ..         ..          ;.L               3.3                      G
INDEX OF FM  Pno. nU CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      97.0       301.0       33.0              33.3                     *2.9
P7U CIrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES   or UZQIDinTS)         70.0       79.0        30.0              S7.7                     SO.5
PROITES (Cam  P  DY)             34.0       37.0        33.0              51.9                     55.4
OF WIOI ANIMAL AND PULSE         7.0        3.0         7.0 je           1s.7 ?1.5
CHILD (AICS 1-I) DAIN  AT          57.7       48.3        33.0              23.1                     14.4
LUL iCT. AT SIETH (TEARS)          34.7       35.4        37.3              47.                      52.0
iNrANT NM. lA  (pu TODS)          207.5      1".5        153.0             119.S                    103.8
ACCESS TO SA5E WMTIM (1P0)
TCTAL                             ..         ..         17.0 /            2:.1                     '2.4
131341                            ..        33.0        39.j0            33.5                     67.5
RUtAL                             ..         ..          2.0              19.3                     35n.
ACCESS TO EXCTA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATtoN)
TOTAL                                       13.0        1. iD             13.5                     23.9
URIAN                             ..        70.0       536.09             35.4                     57.7
R11A                                         2.0         1.01             2073                     20.7
POPULATION P  PHYSICIAN         33770.0    35510.0    17110.0 Jj           901.7                  11791.7
FOP. PEr mNUSSLC PUsIn           4040.0     2220.0     2570.0             330.4                    2459.3
POiP. PER HOPITAL ND
TOTAL                          1410.0      370.0       340.0 /a         1273.                     931.1
VRA                             230.0      240.0       400.0             423.2                    348.8
RURAL                          2730.0      940.0      730.0             3292.5                   4371.9
ADMISSIONS      HOSPITAL UD         ..        1.0          ..              *                         Z7.2
AVERAGE SIZE OF NOSE LD)
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URAm                              ..         ..
RURL                              ..         ..          .                  ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PEESONSI ROOM
TOTAL                             ..         ..
ORgA                              ..         ..          .                  ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
PERCTAGE OF OSiLLINGS WET! ELECr.
TOTAL                             ..         ..         5.0 Dt
URBAN..                             ..          .                  ..
RURAL                             ..         ..         .                   ..
uam*



- 24 -                                                  ANNEX I
PAc,2 of 6
GuNE                      SOii ISICYq AA  U
GUIa                                          caoUla   EQIYEO AVflAEn) /a
Most                     (muS NcWr sriATE  lb
REGuNT     LOW INCOIS AFRICA        NUSI Toimm
eLk      197iLbk :z:=f%Lk         SU  OF SAHAA   T RICA S. OFP SANAA
S IIATIO
Anj'STrm ENOLLIAE   RATIOS330*7.
IEDInt  TOTAL                     30.0       33.0        33.0               67J                      95.7
.ALE                   44.0        40         .0                 77.4                    100.0
VENAI                  13.0        21.0       22.0  _            54.9                     83.2
SECONOWY TOTAL                     2.0        13.0       16.0 /d            11.5                     17.3
ILUY                    3.0        21.0       23.0 1             17.9                     25.0
FrU                     ..          5.0        9.0 &9.1                                   14.0
VOCATIIL CZ OF SECOIDNY)            21.7        3.2         2.7 Id            13.2                      5.9
PUPILteACHER RATO
TAl                               "4.0       44.0        36.0  .            ".9                      41.1
UCOWAZI                           23.0       23.0        24.0               27.                      2S.S
PAssEOER CARS/TNOUSAXD For           1.4        2.2         ..                3.S                      20.a
RADIO IECulEMIV /TOUSAND POP        10.2       20.3        2i.S               55.S                    107.S
TV  czvoIvEuI1        orSANO         ..         ..          1.4                Z.                      20.4
NEPAISE ("DAILR CEUEAT L
IIIERS) CINColAYC
Err TIOSAI POUATION                0.2         1.1         3.7               3.0                      18.4
CII    ANIAL ANDA CAPrA              ..         ..          ..                0.5                       0.4
TOTAL LAB   rou:s (ms)            1910.0      2140.0     2527.0
FENALK (PERCN)                    40.4       40.3        414               34.2                      34.2
AGRCuLZURK (PERCENT)               6.0 n5.0              02.0               77.5                     54.5
USOSIT (PIRlCEN)                   4.0        6.0        11.0               9.7                      16.3
PArICIPATIOE RATn (P23W!
TOTAL                             49.3       47.7        43.3              39.3                      34.8
NALZ                              59.4       57.4        52.2               50.9                     47.1
PiLE                              39.9.      33.1        25.3              28.1                     27.2
EC    NC D80P1EDgR   O               0.9         1.0        1.1                1.3                      1.3
PEEGEN Of PRVATE IINOD
REcEIVD nY
rUnIoIT   0    ovs                 ..          ..         ..S....
UIGUST 2001 11h1_S                 ..          ......
LOWEST 20  UOIIS                   ..          ..         ..                 ..                       ..
CommS 402 oF nusemiUsOS             ..
ESTDLMT AR8OLUr POPERUZZIN
LEVEL CUSS MER CAPITA)
u                                  ..          ..         ..               145.5                    590.7
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..                95.0                    275.3
LEVL CUss Fm  c uIA
U3l                                ..         ..         70.0              113.1                    345A
RMtAL                              ..         ..          ..                67.6                    201.1
ESTDIKun Pro. 311W ASSOLUTE
POVRTN        LEVEL (Z)
Ul                                 .          .           *                36.*                       .
RuRAL                              ..          ..         ..               61.J
NWTr APFLICL'
/a  The group avrage  for each  dmicater are poput.uagebt4i arltSt1c  nacs. Coerae of c d trwis
mog chE lmiicatorm deends a_n swslabtUto OdAid Is olte umifotm.
/b  Usal. otlhewi_s moted. Data. for 1960  refer to ay year betuesm 1959 s.  1961; 'Data for 1970' baet..
1969  od -1971; snd data lor "tht b_cat Estima" betuas 1961 and 19U3.
/c  1977; Id 1980; /a 1976; /f 197?; LL 1979.
JUI 1985



- 25 -
A&INEx r
Pane 3 of 6
Dgl4movf5 OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Hmm: Altnovo te daa we drawn rim   mas d Auy judgpd the mo audonhaueg  rliabk. it dhouled ale be tied thba they may not be inumD yonaiy
ompaaak bciw of th lack of staad dae_ed dculitios aud -ump and by difrt ceu_. in coletg the data. Ih dat aMe. noehaeta. umri to
ducteorde of maitd. bmditrdiLa.andhrcitecn major die a               Coua
The li o Brouapam(1lthe tm   -nir*ota eorthe aene nan2)acountrygourithsomewhthishera aaemncmcthan  de cmtry
wnofthe auhiactmhy -       X (ml   -'ig   ii  . Eapntm  gru whee  iddle lieN..tict Aftica an Middke Eant nchota becaneosiotpri
wi.cultkl   ib)t. In thew rta  gra dt the averapa d e popuuaioo weighted arihm  hmn ror cmdi inictor andh    oy when maonity
oflher   r main i*a gr" km daa for tha iwakar. Siam i. coverug orcountm aamog tbh indicators dqndson the avaiawlity Ofdat and is not uniformn.
maiuo mus be encut i ruti    41aerap ofw ineadkar to_a.hche Teavetam onny usnau in compantg tbe vwlue onr o daor at a tim among
thoe eiy and  fd gray
AREA (tousaned sq.kL)                                         CirU  MP& JIt  (per rhoarnd)--Number of live b irths in the year
Teed-Total surface are comprising land area and inand wats    per thousand of mid-year population 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 dataL                                    GCu  Deh Raoe (per t:hemudj-Number of deaths in the year
Alkir*d-Estimate of agrculura ar  usd temporarily or          per thousand o mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1913 daua
pennauently for crop. pasures, market and kitchen prdn  or to  Gr Repewdmae   Ror-Average number of daughters a woman
lie raow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her nonnal reproductive period if she experics
pent ag-speaic  ertility rates usully five-yer avegs ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-ONP per capita estimates at current      in 1960.1970. and 1963.
arket patus. calcuated by same conveion method as World
&So  AttE (1981-83 basisk 1983 data.                          bag  P_Aft-ccqt,m  A _m  (thona)Anual num-
ber of acceptors of birth-control devies under auspicsof naiuonal
ENERGY CONSUPTEION PER CAPTA-n     apprent                    famaly panning program.
consumption of commercial pnimary energy (coal and lignite.* Pf              w i (poemifxmi -t  mumen)-The peren-
pctroleumL natural ps and hydro-. nuceiar and geothennal dlec-  tae of mried women ofchild-bearing age who are practicing or
unity) in kilogams of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands ae practicing sny form ofcontracpion. Women
19U2 da                                                       of hild-bearing age are gmerally women aged 15-49. although for
some counties contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATSnCS                                gSrous
aeal9lPpmatie. Mld-Yw fthew&J-As ofJuly 1.1960.1970.          FOOD AND NUTRION
and 1963 data.
UHm Popmhdion (pJteem of toslFrd) atio of urban to total      IdezofFedPmWriau Per Capita (190-71- MJ-Index ofper
p(puauo. dplawiut depmeurof onls .a of urban ara ayafc copw   capita annual production of all food commwotiies. Production
ppilatiof ditaeentdefinitions of urban1es maynd1 t codata     ex cudes anmal feed and sed for ag ture. Food commodities
ability of data among counies; 1960.1970. and 19f3 d.         inldude primrry commodities (cg. suprcane instead of sugar)
PpuiAw jeerioe                                                which are edible and contain nutrents (c.g. coffee and tea are
Popula air year 2000-The projecoon of popuation for 2000.     exiuded); they compnse cerals. root crops, pulses. oil seeds
made for eacn economy separtely. Starting with information on  vegetable  fruits nuts. suprcane and sugar beets. livestck, and
otal population by age and sex. fertility rats mortality mtes and  livestock products. Agrepate production of each country is based
nernational miution in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
wre  projected at fiveyear inwrvals on the bai  of genalid    1982 data.
aunpuios untii tie population became stutionary.              Par Cqer SuPP lf  GCaoi (pecMt fruf)-comput-
Strma  y popu_lari-Is one in which age- and sex-specfic mor-  ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rames have not changed overa long period. while age-pecific  per capita per day. Avaiablee supplies comprise domestic produc-
ferilty rates have simultaneously remained at replament lIvel  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate-I). In such a population. the birth tate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiologic  needs for normal activity
sie was estimated on the basis of the pjed characteristi of   and health considering environmental temperature. body weights
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                    waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Poppdatloa Momentum-ls the tendency for population growth to  PerC GCpia Sqb of Prwei (gris per Afyl-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countnes established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year z is masured as  provide for minimumn allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultinate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the yeart. given the assumption that fertilty remnair at replace-  should be animal protein. These sundards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Apd_aa Desiyr                                                 aveage for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (IW hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tare) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               P., Cpa Pieis Supply f5m A   lP and Pa&e- Protein su ply
Per rsqk. ogrinuural land-Computed as above for agricuturl    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1Y61-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
hpulario  Age Swriane (percexr--Cluldren (0-14 yearsl. work-  Chi (ages 1-4) DeaJh Rate fper rbousurd)-Number of deaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and rtired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960.1970. and 1963 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Populutia. Growth Rare (pereentr)-foor-Annual growth rates of  from life tabis: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year populaton for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
Ppmkuio GCowh Rae f(percrmu -i  -Annual growth rates          Lfe Erpeaacry at Birrk (yearyJ-Number of years a nerborn
of urban population ror 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the uD. of of its birth were to Mtay the samt throughout its life;  PipM-ieacher Ratio  primary, and secondary-Total students gn-
l960, 1970 nd 1913 dats.                                        rolled in primary and    ondary lemis divided by number of
1w  Mtalty Awe (per t1awandj-Number of infants who die          teuah    in the corresponding levdl
befom rewching one year of ap per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMTION
Aac   to Soi Wke (rwe   of                      when ad         PaseWer Cs,pr ethomd popudadea)-Pauenger car com-
uwl-Number of people (totaL urba nd rural) with reaonable       prise motor car seating less than eight persons; exdudes ambul-
am   to sfe water upply (Indud  tmeated surface water or        ances. hearses and miliutry vehicee
untneted but uncontamimted water such a that from protected     A4d. Recvr (per thousand p.palia a-All ype of receivers
boreOblea spring and sanitary wei) a percentages of ther respec-  for radio broadcs to general public per thousud of population;
tive popuations In an urban ame a public fountain or standpost  exdudes un-licensed receivers in countries and in yean when
ocated not more than 200 metrs from a house may be consired     registraion orradio sets was in effect; dam for rcent yes may
as being wit  reasonabe acm  of that house   In rural aresm     not be compable since most countries abolished licemsin
reasonable access would imply that the housewie or membern of the
househid do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Recies (per thum.dpapaldiaj-TV recciver for broadcast
in fhuing thc ftamily's wow ter d rto general public per thousnd population: excludes unleed TV
inem ftchin thre familys -bp'd (pffem of pepakdon)--4ora       receivers in counuies and in yers when registration of TV seu was
Awi to EweaDpn  (perca ft f papulati.)eol, _ie,                 in effect
and ,mll-urmber of peopl (toal, urban, and rural) served by          m w 
excrea  disposl as percentmage of their respective populations.    Nfe rppw Clainc (per rhausd ppulstoiu)-Shows the aver-
Excret disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age crculation of -daily general intrst newpape  ddned as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording geal news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily' if it appesn at least four tim  a week.
PopeWioL per Physlseau-r pulation divided by number of prc.     Cunem   Ann   Attedane per Cai  per Yew-Based on the
tising physians qualiid from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
PopAkdo. pfr Nwsin Pwsoa-Thpulation divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses  assistant nurses.
practi  nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                         LBORFORCE
Pop__um pgr Hospital BnF-catal, urban and rrI -Pepulation       Tta Labor Force (thowsandi)-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban a    id rural) divxled by thir respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding houswives.
hostal bedsavail bleinpublicvandpvate.dgeiespectl ndmeroized  students, etc.. covering population of all ags. Definitions in
hospital and rehabila  tion  centepbi  adpr itals an           various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemanenly stffed by at Ieast one physican Establishments prov-    FAma  (perceari-Fenale labor force as percentage of total iabor
iding principay custodial care are not indluded. Rural hospitals,  force.
howver. includ health and medicalcenters not permanendy staffed  Agricmhr (perreaj-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurs midwife. etc.)  and fishing as pecentage of totl labor force 1960. 1970 and 1990
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         iasury (percert)-Libor force in mining. constnrution. manu-
Ad,ssions pe Hoipikl BdeS-Tomal number of admissions to or     facturing and electncity. water and gs as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the numiber of beds        force; 1960. 1970 and 1910 data.
RPAdm    Rare (perceuw)--ttat awek, andfimdal-4articipation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as totaL mal, and fiemale lbor force
Aerage Sir  f HosNeoldt (pleron per Ao&wA*edj-tral. mhaur      as percentages of total. male and femal populaton of all ago
andriva-A householdconsiss oafa group of individuals who shae  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 datL These are based on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates refleting aesex structure of the populan. and
may not he included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sourc.
Aveae Number of Pons per Reom-e-tail vhen. and rwur--           Econome Deprendncy Rado--Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population ithose aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings respectively. DweLlings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBLTION
Pcentage of DAelli   with FeAricr-eoratui. when, and wal-       Peweage of Total D iposahk lxcvon  foth in cash ad kiindJ-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accrung to percenti etroups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Ad;sed Erl&meOt Rads                                           The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
ftary schol - total. mal and fema k-Gro   total. male and      levels, and should be interpreted with considerble caution.
female enrollment of all age at the primary level as percentages of  Estiated Absolet Povwrty Income Levd (((USSiper eapits)-apb
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and reral-Absolute poverty income level is that incom  level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimi! nutritionaly adequate diet plus essntial
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordahle.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relr iue Poverty income Level (USS per captt)_.wbn
educanon, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard pnmarv-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban leve is
age.                                                           denved from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seconary school - roral. mate and femae--Computed as above,    living in urban area,
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Estimted Populason Bid.  Absolre P'rerty Incme  Level fpe-
mary instructton; provides general. vocational. or teacher training  oentJ-uraff nd rural-- Percent of population turban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are absoluEe poor
ence courses are gendrly excluded.
Vocational Enrolimente (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industrial, or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 19b5



- 27
(E3  N.U   L P         Di 196                       Mimi Rat. of &Wd, (Z.  cmt  prm)
USS mn         Z    1973-77    197741       1973-81    1981-B
ow! at lec Prim             1756       100        4.59      -0.22       2.16        2.00
C      _Dmtc   Bm    zt      195        11       -6.55       7.09       0.04        7.0
QG  N      1tlmm  Siwip      173        10       -3.46       0.01      _1.70          _
Qre 1snt Balnc               -22        -1       21.25     -39.77       4.92         -
roct of Cwk. NS              5271'      3a       30.41       2.35      15.53        I.00
ipU of Goos, NPS            -428       -24      -20.03       3.46      11.44         -
amwUf, IAOR mR  AM PMUrMT In 19B3
VALm Ad                      labT  Form                 VA per ';r
!Ms m3n         Z          d                   2           IMS           Z
APiaafw            71           42.36          202             82.00         351         51.A
iustry & m28s   383             22.86           271            10.99        1343        196.36
S:rNim.            5B2          34.75           173             7.02        3445        50B.86
To 1 mv            1675        100.00          266            100.00         677        10.0D
Central I emm
BRUfm  SilAs                            oE CDP
1981      1962      1963       1964     19B1     19X2    1983      19Bs
stuZ Remit               11.52      15.35     10.23     10.74    32.68    40.98    23.17    21.0
Qzrrt  DMWIurT           7.04       9.09      7.B0      9.92    19.97    24.27    17.67    19.4
Ogru  Sopi        2       4.4B      6.26       2.43       .83    12.71    16.71      5.51      1.6
C~,1ra1 Vy.~ilnau     5.73       6.34      2.93       3.85    16.25    11.58      6.65     7.5
Brerll AmlstaE           1.80       0.83      0.83      -.22      5.12     2.21      1.86     -.A
O%t)
lar, a22 ADS PRIM
BIUIUn Syirs
Dec. 19B0         Dec. 1981          Dec. 1962          Da:. 1983
miy ani  quesi-sa                  12.50              17.19             16.16             17.55
B3k Creit to Public Sector         18.50             18.28              15.59             17.78
Blk Crefit to Private Sector        1.21              1.02               0.59              0.63
1980              1961               1962              1963
qey ai  q     Suei-iuy as Z of G   77.4               49.69             39.6              40.28
Gmura Prlce Inc (1981-100)         91.9             IOD.0              104.4             116.4
Aml Z Chanp  in
Bock Credit to Public Sector    114.9              -6.65             -10.00             14.34
BI  c Cruit to Prie Sector       60.3              -16.OD            -62.16              6.71
October 22. 195



- 28 -
ManN6eff 6
uSP IC OP SUhIA
BuLaN  or PATim
"a7'   apc           "i    *oz        (Rei1d8
curMnssY                        (9-t-
tports of                                366     496      693     444     503    527
Imorts of CGods                         -333    -395    -4       -380    -S0   -42
Tred Selaace                              31      101t     As       U       22     9
Servites  nd Ptivate Trasfers (net)   -97       -"     -121    -tZA    -140   -140
Intermct N A LST Debt                 -23     -23     -22      -25     -21    -21
Ineet_mt Income                       -16     -A         -56   -S      -70    -69
Other Se-aice  (tne)                  -49     -21      -11    -36      -40    -0
wlrarAs'  emittnces                    -7      -4      -9       -9      -9   -10
Offtcial Tranefere lust)                   9      17       14      26       13     19
alace an Current Account                 -57      It       4      -34        a   -22
Direct Forein Investment                  17      22       30      23       31     SA
Net IIS Enrrovig                          37       14      53      20      62   -25
Diebursemente. Public Borrowing       131     119      142      S7      92      79
Amrtiatiet . Public Borrowing         -65     -73     -61l   -53       -46    -M
Subtotal. Public lorrowing             66      A6      31       34      A6     -3
Private Sector (ete)                  -29     -32     -23      -14      16   -20
Otber Capttal (neti,                      -1        I      11      31      -3    -12
other Items  .i.e -                      -42     -90      -99     -56    -133    -U
Cange to Resrves  c-   Inres) 1/          29      34       72      11      42      63
Grsa leserve  ( snd yer)                  *5      101      92     133      129
Net easrves (ad year) Sl                -204    -240      -76    -C7    -142  -205
Fuele ed Related Matertal.
TIperte                                56      U       97       *       33     37
of which:  Petroleum                   36      34      97       86      33     37
Esparta                                    0       0       0        0       0      0
xnu or rcracz
1975    1976    1977   1973   1979   1930   1931   1982   1933   1084
SylIioUSS   20.33   21.33   21.14  19.72  19.11  11.97  20.93  22.36  23.37  ?4.29
URCRMuiISK EWPOXTS (Average 193-04)           Mas6uL Dir D eeber 31. 19U4
(in consetnt 1932 price)
Bauxite             334.4       70.1          Public Debt
Aluinta             127.0       26.6          Includi   Undiebursed        1570.4
Diamend               646        1.4          Outstaning & Diabured    1167.3
Agrical turl
Comeoditie          9.2        1.9
Total               477.2      100.0          DEBT SImCE IRATIOS POM 1934 -
11W/mA LDTING (March 31. 1985)                Scheduled Service Payments  3443
US$ sin               Public                       34.0
IaRD       IDA             Privac Debt lion
Guaranteed               11.3
Outstanding 4
Dtbarurd           41.5      108.3
Undisbured          0.0       84.4
Outstandi
inclt&ns
undiaburaid        41.5      194.7          Actual Service Paymenct
Public Debt                 19.9
Private Debt oan Cuaranc d D.a.
11 Nsrcbadise exportcllports only.
21  Including capital cracafers toe  and Investmnt on behalf of . stat
enterprises.
3/ Cr IMlicie  deflator.
4/  includes errors end omisions. and SDR allcations In 1930 and 1931.
1/  Discrepenccas due to different echange rats.
6/ Debit balance of $213 mlllo uneor bilateral payment arrangements
converted 1931482 to ILT loan.
71  Period geomeric average.
I/  Debt service as a percentage of mrdefdia   exports.
Occabor 22. 1985



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
LIVESTOCK CREDIT
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31. 1986)*
(USS MilIIon)
Credit
Number       Year   Borrower  Purpose                           Bank   IDA 1/ Undisbursed ,/
Two loans and throe Credit. have been fully disbursed           73.56  28.99
870-GUI      1979    Guinea   First Water Supply and Sanitation         12.50     0.29
952-CUI      1980    Quinn   Rice Developmnt                            10.40     6.15
953-GUI      1980    Cuinea   Second Highway                           13.00      0.66
1063-CUI     1981    Cuinea   Livestock Development                     2.11      6.17
1085-CUI     1981    Cuinea   Power                                    28.60      0.35
1234-GUI     1982    Guinea   Industrial Rehabilitation                19.66    11.19
and Promotion
1341-WI      1983    Cuinea   Second Education                         11.00      8.18
1382-CUI     1983    Guinea   Conakry Port                             la.6      3.61
1438-GUI     1984    Cuinea   Petroleum Exploration Promotion           8.00      4.24
1457-GUI     1984    Cuinea   Third Highway                            28.30    27.16
1466-GUI     1984    Cuinea   Conakry Urban Development                 10.70     9.71
1569-GUI     1986    Cuinea   T.A. for Economic Management              9.56      9.09
:596-CUI /   1985    Cuinea   Second Power A Tech. Assistance.          8.        8.66
136-5WI 2/  1986    Cuinea   Cueckedou Agr. Development                 6.66      6.60
1636-GUI J   1985    Cuinea   Agricultural Services                     7.50      7.60
1537-CUI 2V  1986    Guinea   Mineral Sector Management                 3.96      3.90
1659-Pil 2/  1986    Cumn^   Structural Adjustment Credit              25.66    25-66
Aoli-GUI V/  1986    Cuinn   Structural Adjustment                      17.00    17.60
Total                                      73.56  262.70   141.61
of which has been repaid                 1:6.12   0W
Total now held by Bank and IDA I/          37.38 262.70
Total undisbursod                           6.6  141.51   141.61
1/   Beginning with Credit 1063-GUI, Credits have been dominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the
dollar equvalent at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA
amounts and the dollar equivalents as of March 31, 1986, for the
undisbursed amounts. (1 SDR = US$1.13827)
21   Not yet effective.
3/   Prior to exchange adjustments
*    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Dicectors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal Year  Obligor                                  Type of Business    Loan Equity        Total
1983      SociAt& Mixte, Aredor Cuin6e, S.A.    Diamond Mining          13.8    1.2        14.8
1986      BICI-GUI                                 Banking                      1.0         1.0
Total Gross Comitments                                       13.6    2.2         16.8
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                                         0.3      -          0.3
Total Cownitments now held by IFC                            13.5    2.2         15.5
Undisbursed Balance                                           0.0    0.0          0.0



31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a)       Project identification:          May 1984
(b)       Preparation report:              February 1985
(c)       Project prepared by:             Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment assisted by Consultants
(d)       Project appraisal:               May 1985
(e)       Negotiations completed           March 1986
(f)       Planned date of effectiveness:  December 1986
Section II     Special IDA Implementation Actions
A PPF advance totalling US$465,000 to finance services of an
architect for the design and preparation of bidding docu-
ments of buildings, funds for vaccination against epidemic
disease for 1985, a study on financial procedure and con-
trol, a baseline survey, and consultants for the development
of the fishery strategy.
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness are:
(a)       Appointment of the General Director of Livestock (para. 58);
(b)       Cross-effectiveness of financing agreements between the
Government and the CCCE, FAC and BADEA (para. 69);
(c)       Opening of the local currency Revolving Fund at a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA and the initial deposit of an amount
equivalent to US$300,000 into the Fund (para. 72);
(d)       Establishment of project financial accounting system and
control satisfactory to IDA (para. 73).
(e)       Setting of tariffs for the supply of inputs and services to
herders (para. 67).
(f)       Submission of an action plan with a calendar acceptable to
IDA for the retrenchment of the redundant livestsock staff
(para 55).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g)       Enactment of satisfactory statute for the creation of the
Input Supply Center (para. 49).
Other Conditions
(a)       A draft model statute for herdsmen's associations would be
prepared by June 30, 1987 (para. 46);
(b)       Operation and management of the Input Supply Center would be
revicwed annually between the Government and IDA (para. 49);
(c)       A separate accounting system would be established within the
DGE, the vaccine production unit (para- 52);
(d)       The first two applications of each type of loan granted
under the pilot credit scheme would be approved by IDA
(para. 54);
(e)       The Government would not change the agreed staffing plan
without prior consent of IDA (para. 55);
(f)       Annual reviews of the charges for livestock inputs and
veterinary treatments would be carried out between the
Government and IDA (para. 67);
(g)       A review on the implications of direct charges for vaccina-
tions against CBPP and RP would be carried out by December
31, 1988 (para. 67);
(1)       The Government would propose measures to improve the collec-
tion of indirect tax in the sector and to compensate for the
loss of the vaccination tax by June 30, 1987 (para. 67);
(m)       A mid-term joint evaluation of the project would take place
before December 31, 1989 (para. 66).
Prior to the disbursement of the pilot credit component, tne
Government would sign a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with a
commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
(para. 54).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
GUINEA
LIVESTOCK SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Total
Procurement Item    ICB         Int'l. Shopping      Other     N/A        Costs
Building             5.6                              -          -         5.6
Vechicles & Spares  1.6                              0.6a        -            2
(1.4)             -               _t.4)
Equipment            1.0              0.2 bI         0.4 a/                1.6
(0.9)             -               -         -         (0.9)
Livestock Inputs    3.1                                          -         3.1
(3.0)             -               -         -         (3.0)
Tech. Asst.          1.5 cI            -             3.4 a/      -         4.9
(1.5)                            -          -         (1.5)
Fellowships                                           -         0.8        0.8
-  -   -  (0.8)     (0.8)
Incr. Op. Costs               -                       -        2.7 dl      2.7
_  -   -  (1.3)     (1.3)
Pilot Credit                                          -         1.3        1.3
_                -              -       (0.9)       (0.9)
Total Costs         12.3              0.2            4.4        5.3       22.2
(6.3)              -              -       (3.5)       (9.8)
=====        =======G=
a/ Financing would be by CCCE and FAC procedures.
bl Furniture and equipment spread over time and difficult to regroup into
larger packages.
cl Employment of consultants would be in accordance wich IDA guidelines.
df Including purchbaes of fuel and lubrificant, labor and materials for
maintenance of buildings and equipment.



gI   t^AURIIAtdIA    k     12-                                         12^                                                U                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD IBS9OR
is  t^ALI o'  ___                          S~~~~~ E N E G A L                            jA Lj                                                                                                              ALI
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Regularly Sevied  irots                                                              Pkegulerlyervicd Arpots            }                I  F -.S ro
--lnterEuriueul Buunduries                             Internutunol BuuednEes \  5wt
t.,.?]Furest Regosn                                   R00    S   S
8  [Iz   Sucunnuk tu Bush Suvereus                                           KIlOEEE         Du        s   oIGELOMETERS 0                 2D Cu  60     E0 luc  KILOME|                                                           . TERS
[=j2   Bush EuoTree Scuesceb                                                     MILE o      2o      c0                       MILES u      20      uu     so         i                                      J                                   I
[rl    : octo Dieles I hilly puinly oreested uplond pbloeoc)9stij, "b  
Slm      LightFurustLErreeS      eveR
*:* Meegruse Swoutops                                  ?           <                                       
ss-,Light Forest wiE Swsotpy Aress                               c            ~              5     *     ~      'B                        - ,                   '       ~     >{~    
I~~t.>                                   I574                         -                      \                                                                     ;UiI






