                                                                                                        59458




Findings reports on ongoing operational, economic and sector work carried out by the World Bank and its member
governments in the Africa Region. It is published periodically by the Knowledge Learning Center on behalf of the
Region.




                       Guinea: The Livestock Rehabilitation Project
The Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project, operational from 1986 through 1995, was seen as
essential in facilitating the new government's implementation of its economic strategy when it
came to office in 1984. Previous government policy had required that 10 percent of all herds be
sold at a fixed price through the State Cattle Marketing Agency, encobe. This caused many
herders to emigrate and hide their animals in forests or outside the country. In addition, poor
animal health represented a severe constraint to agricultural productivity and growth on which
approximately 30 percent of the country's rural population (160,000 families) depended.

All the livestock sector reforms took place within the context of a major overhaul of the National
Livestock Directorate. As a condition of credit effectiveness for World Bank assistance and in
line with the government's new macroeconomic policies, Livestock Directorate staff were
reduced by two-thirds ¾ some 1,200 employees were let go. Those remaining were required to
re-qualify for their positions through training in other countries.

The three macro components of the project were:

    ·   Support for the privatization of the livestock service through the establishment of herders'
        associations; the creation of a Veterinary Input Supply Center (CAVET; Centrale
        d'Approvisionnement Vétérinaire) for the production, purchase, and distribution and sale of
        livestock inputs, and the provision of a pilot credit component to establish private veterinary
        practices, animal production farms, herders' associations, and a system of distribution of
        livestock inputs.

    ·   Strengthening of the National Livestock Directorate (DNE).

    ·   Provision of technical assistance and training.
Impact on the Ground

   ·   The most significant achievement was the creation of 240 herders' associations and the training
       of more than 1,000 veterinary auxiliaries, the majority of whom belonged to herders' families.
   ·   Another important achievement was the restoration of trust between the government and the
       large number of herders who had fled the country during the previous regime. More than
       600,000 head of cattle are estimated to have returned as a result of the government's new
       liberalization policy. The census revealed a 66.8 percent increase in bovines and a 8.9 percent
       increase in herders over the 1988­95 period.

   ·   Improvement in the country's general sociopolitical conditions also resulted in the liberalization
       of cattle marketing; and more reliable livestock data.

   ·   The training program helped promote a better understanding of the problems affecting livestock
       and gave a certain amount of autonomy to the herders to carry out some of the animal health
       program such as vaccinations, drenching and animal disease prevention. Technical assistance
       was an essential component, particularly the lessons learned and expertise transferred from the
       Central African Republic where a similar livestock project had been successfully implemented.

   ·   A symbol of the project's success and a reflection of the strength of ownership was the
       development of a National Livestock Fair by the herders, which has attracted participants from
       around the country and received extensive press coverage.
   ·   Restructuring and trimming of the DNE has resulted in a more committed work force.

Lessons Learned

   ·   The project reflected the development gains possible through the government's genuine
       commitment to its reform objectives and a good working relationship between the borrower
       and co-financiers. Joint supervision missions were carried out with the participation of a number
       of donors and non-governmental organizations.

   ·   An important component for success was the development of ownership by stakeholder groups.
       Because the project was focused on livestock, the herders' organizations and the government
       agency responsible for implementation, along with the veterinarians, were able to build on
       common interests.




For more information on the project, please contact Noel Chabeuf, Rm. no. J6-103, World Bank,
1818 H Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20433. Tel. no.: (202) 4737554; e-mail address:
nchabeuf@worldbank.org
