OFFk.
DOCUMEN 'i
CREDIT NIBER 1725 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         ,C1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1725 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      gCAAO 3               , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale
de Coop6ration Economique (CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Loan) 'n an
amount equivalent to 3,800,000 dollars to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and CCCE;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from Fonds d'Aide et de
Coop6ration (FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) to finance the services
of three technical assistants, to assist in carrying out the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the FAC Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
FAC;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Banque Arabe de
D6veloppement Economique en Afrique (BADEA) a loan (the BADEA
Loan) in an amount equivalent to 4,500,000 dollars to assist in
financing a part of the Project, on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and BADEA; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of


﻿-2-
this Agreement, provided, however, that the last sentence of
Section 3.02 of said General Conditions is deleted.
Section 1.62. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Commercial Bank" means a commercial bank in Guinea,
acceptable to the Association;
(b) "DGE" means the Directorate General for Livestock
within the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development;
(c) "AE" means Herdsmen's Association;
(d) "Livestock Loan" means a loan approved by the Associa-
tion, made by the Commercial Bank out of the proceeds      of the
Credit for a Livestock Project, in accordance with Section 3.06
of this Agreement;
(e) "Livestock Loan Agreement" means an agreement between
the Commercial Bank and a Livestock Loan beneficiary;
(f) "Livestock Project" means an activity described in
Section 1.(a) through (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g) "Project Account" means the account in local currency
to be opened and thereafter maintained by the Borrower pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration  advance   and  supplementary   advanc.e  granted  by  the
Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters
dated June 3, 1985, and June 17, 1985, April 18, 1986 and May 5,
1986, between the Borrower and the Association;
(i) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)  "CA" means Centrale d'Approvisionnement in Conakry,
a central input supply center for the purchase, distribution and
sale of livestock inputs, established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower's D6cret No. 277/PRG/86 of December 22, 1986 and
Dfcret No. 278/PRG/86 of December 22, 1986, as well as any
successor of the CA, acceptable to the Association; and


﻿-3-
(k) "MDR" means the Ministry of Rural Development of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. dollars a special account in the
Commercial Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal- amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (11i) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments, payable on each May 15
and November 15, commencing November 15, 1996, and ending May 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3,01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MDR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿-5-
appropriate administrative, financial and livestock practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, exclu-
sively for the purposes of the Project, establish and maintain at
the Commercial Bank a revolving project account in its local
currency and shall: (i) make an initial deposit therein in an
amount equivalent to $300,000; and (ii) thereafter replenish said
Project Account as and when required to ensure that the first
date of each calendar quarter of each year the Project is exe-
cuted, an amount equal to at least the initial deposit shall be
available in that account to finance part of the estimated local
currency expenditures for the Project during the following six-
month period.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall employ consultants and
specialists acceptable to the Association, to assist the Borrower
in carrying out the Project, in accordance with a schedule
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, during the time the
Project is executed:
(a) implement the detailed staffing plan for its livestock
services agreed upon, between the Borrower and the Association in
accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Association and
maintain the staffing of its livestock services at levels accept-
able to the Association;
(b) employ Guineans whose qualifications and experience are
acceptable to the Association in the positions of General
Director and Assistant General Director of Livestock within DGE;
and
(c) maintain DGE's organizational structure in effect on
April 7, 1986 unchanged, except as otherwise agreed with the
Association.


﻿Section 3.05. The- Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1987, or such later date as shall be acceptable to the Associa-
tion, appoint and thereafter employ during the time the Project
is executed, a well qualified and experienced Director of the
Livestock Training Center in Lab
Section 3.06. In order to carry out Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(a) establish within DGE and thereafter maintain a com-
mittee for the appraisal of Livestock Loan applications, with
such composition, functions and responsibilities as shall be
satisfactory to the Association;
(b) relend part of the proceeds of the Credit, allocated
from time to time to Category (6) of the table in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, to a Commercial Bank under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and that
Commercial Bank, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association and which shall include: (i) a fixed
annual interest rate equal to 5%; (ii) repayment by said Commer-
cial Bank to the Borrower of amounts so relent in equal install-
ments over a period of 15 years, including a grace period of 4
years; (iii) bearing by the Borrower of the risk of fluctuations
in the value of currencies so relent to said Commercial Bank; and
(iv) the modalities of onlending of said proceeds of the Credit
by said Commercial Bank under Livestock Loan Agreements for
Livestock Projects which have been approved by the committee
referred, to in paragraph (a) of this Section, in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c) exercise its rights under the subsidiary loan agreement
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section in such a manner as
to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive said subsidiary loan agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.07. (a) When presenting a Livestock Loan to the
Association   for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association an application, in a form satisfactory to the
Association, together with: (i) a description of the Livestock


﻿-'7 -
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the Livestock Loan, and the proposed terms and
conditions of the Livestock Loan Agreement, including a schedule
of amortization, taking into account the criteria set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such other information as-
the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its
approval, the first two applications of each of the three types
of Livestock Loans set forth in Schedule 4, paragraph 1 of this
Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the
Association for its comment and approval:
(a) not later than December 31, 1988, the study referred to
in Part E.1 of the Project;
(b) not later than June 30, 1987, the study referred to in
Part E.2 of the Project; and
(c) not later than June 30, 1987, draft model statutes for
the establishment of AEs.
Section 3.09. (a) In order to carry out Part C.2., 3. and
4. of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than June 30 of
each year the Project is executed, prepare and submit to the
Association for its comment and approval a comprehensive plan
for the local and overseas training activities to be carried out
during   the  school   year,  starting   around  the   following
September 1.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) award fellowships to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to suitably qualified
persons and for overseas training programs acceptable to the
Association; and (ii) take all measures reasonably necessary to
ensure that the beneficiaries of the fellowships will continue to
work within the Borrower's livestock services for a period of at
least two years after completing their training program.
Section 3.10. The Borrower undertakes to consult with the
Association: (a) regularly, and at least once a year, on the
operation, management and capital structure of CA, established
under Part B.1. of the Project, and the charges for livestock


﻿-8-
inputs and veterinary treatments; (b) not later than December 30,
1988, on the ratio between salary and non-salary operating costs
for the livestock sector; and (c) not later than December 31,
1989 or such later date as shall be acceptable to the Associa-
tion, on the mid-term evaluation of the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all measures reason-
ably necessary to allow private interests to participate in CA.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, including separate accounts for the Labora-
toire de Production de Vaccins Veterinaires de Kindia.
(b) The Borrower shall prepare quarterly reports contain-
ing summary financial information in respect of the Project's
progress and estimated expenditures within the next six months,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(c) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to. in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles  consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested;
(iii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than two months after
the end of each calendar quarter, the reports
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section; and


﻿-9-
(iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said reports, accounts and      the
C/     audit thereof and said records as the Association
shall fr6m time to time reasonably request.
(d) For all expenditures with, respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion,of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records. (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and   other documents) eviden4ing    such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensue that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (c) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion  by  said  auditors   as  to  whether  the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) ArrAte No. 3337/MEF/CAB/DCEEF/86 of June 12, 1986 of
the Borrower authorizing the sale of livestock inputs and cost
recovery for veterinary    treatment,   or the D'crets of     the
Borrower connecting the Laboratoire de Production de Vaccins
V9terinaires de Kindia with its infrastructure to MDR shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without
prior approval of the Association.


﻿- 10 -
(b) ArrAt No. 5444/MDR/CAB of September 16, 1986 of the
Borrower establishing the organizational structure of DGE or the
Dfcrets of the Borrower establishing CA shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to impede, in the
opinion of the Association, the realization of the objectives of
the Project.
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CCCE Loan, the FAC Grant or
the BADEA Loan, made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the CCCE
Loan Agreement, the FAC Agreement, or the
BADEA Loan Agreement; or
(B) such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the   Association  that:  (A)   such  suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available'
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (a) or       (b) of
Sectii. 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are spec,fied as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreef nt within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the first disbursement
under the CCCE Loan and the BADEA Loan, except for the effec-
tiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) the Technical Director of the Project financed under
the FAC Grant has commenced his work;
(c) the Project Account has been opened and the initial
deposit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) has been made;
(d) the Borrower has put into operation a financial and
cost accounting system, acceptable to the Association, within
DGE;
(e) the Borrower has appointed a General Director of
Livestock acceptable to the Association;
(f) the Borrower has set the tariffs for supply of inputs
and services to herders;
(g) the Borrower has provided the Association with an
action plan and implementation schedule, acceptable to the
Association, for the retrenchment of staff of the Borrower's
livestock services; and
(h) the CA is duly established.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tions 3.10 (a) of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date 10 years aftev, the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Rural Development of the
Borrower is, designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.Q3 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of SectioA 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Rural Development
P.O. Box 576
Conakry
Republic of Guinea
Cable address:
MIDORAL
Conakry
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By 11~           O~~J
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By / $/Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and              1,130,000         100% of foreign
spare parts                                expenditures
(2) Equipment                   700,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Livestock                 2,400,000         100% of foreign
inputs                                     expenditures
(4) Consultants'                780,000         100%
services and
audit
(5) Fellowships                 610,000         100%
(6) Goods and services          700,000         100%
financed under
Livestock Loans
(7) Operating cost of           960,000         50%
the Borrower's
livestock services
(8) Refunding of                420,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepa-                             suant to Section
ration Advance                             2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(9) Unallocated                 800,000
TOTAL              8,500,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) pay-
ments made under Category (6) before the Association shall have
approved the subsidiary loan agreement referred to in Section
3.06 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are twofold: to increase the
productivity of the cattle herd in the Borrower's territory and
thereby augment national meat and milk production and improve
human nutrition, and to create an environment favorable to the
privatization of supply of goods and services to Guinean herders.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof 'as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Establishment of about forty-five AEs and provision of an
initial stock of livestock inputs to such AEs.
Part B:
1.   Establishment of CA.
2.   Construction or renovation of existing office buildings and
storage space of the DG's central department in Conakry and about
22 prefectoral services, and construction of a diagnostic
laboratory in Conakry.
3.   Construction of a production facility for mineral licks.
4.   Support to the Borrower's livestock extension services and
annual national vaccination campaigns against common cattle
diseases by provision of equipment, vehicles and basic inputs to
said services' headquarters and regional and field offices, and
to the Laboratoire de Production de Vaccins Veterinaires de
Kindia.
Part C:
1.   Establishment in Labe of a training center, and construction
of staff housing and a demonstration farm, to train the Bor-
rower's livestock services' staff and AE representatives.
2.   Upgrading of the skills of the Borrower's livestock ser-
vices' staff through recycling courses in Guinea and through
overseas fellowships for high level staff.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Training  of  AE   representatives  in  the  administration,
management and group developmept of AEs.
4.   Training of AE agents in simple treatment of livestock.
Part D:
Financing of Livestock Projects by prqvision of Livestock
Loans.
Part E:
1.   A study on the implications of direct cost recovery of
vaccination against contagious bovine pleuropneumonia and rin4er-
pest.
2.   Studies on measures to improve taxation in the livestock
sector.
3.   Studies of problems arising in the livestock and fisheries
sector during Project implementation, selected in agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
4.   Preparation of a possible follow-up project.
The Project is expected to be conpleted by June 30, 1992.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Prference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the. procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof,. goods manufactured in Republic
of Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs Z.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for Part B.4 of the Project, as well as contracts
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of .50,000 dollars, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 200,000
dollars, may be procured on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for Part D of the Project shall be awarded in
accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
Part E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, or for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first.
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association and who shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
C-nsultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Livestock Loans;
Terms and Conditions
1.   Livestock Loans may be granted for the following activities:
(a) to set up a private veterinary practice. Eligible for
these loans are qualified veterinarians, particularly those
retiring from the Borrower's livestock services;
(b) to set up a livestock farm. Eligible for these loans
are qualified persons, particularly _taff retiring from the
Borrower's livestock services; and
(c) to set up retail outlets for the sale of livestock
medicines, small veterinary equipment and mineral licks. Eligible
for these loans are qualified persons, particularly staff
retiring from the Borrower's livestock services.
2.   Livestock Loans may be granted on the following terms:
Maximum
term
(years
Maximum     Annual    includ-     Grace
amount     interest   ing grace   period
(dollars)     (%)       period)    (years)
Veterinarians      8,000      8-12         12         3-4
Livestock farms   10,000        8          15         4-5
Retail outlets     3,500       10           1          0
3.   Livestock Loan Agreements shall also:
(a) reserve the Borrower's and the Association's right to
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Commer-
cial Bank the Livestock Projects, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
(b) stipulate release of all such information as the Bor-
rower, the Association, or the Commercial Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Livestock Project; and


﻿- 21 -
(c)  the right of the Commercial Bank to suspend or termi-
nate the right of the Livestock Loan beneficiary to the use of
the proceeds of the Livestock Loan upon failure by such bene-
ficiary to perform its obligations under the Livestock Loan
Agreement.
4.    The goods and services to be financed out of a Livestock
Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price and shall be used
exclusively in carrying out a Livestock Projlect.
5.   A Livestock Loan shall not exceed 90% of the total cost of
the Livestock Project for which it is granted.
6.    Applications for Livestock Loans shall be presented to the
Commercial Bank on or before December 31, 1991.


﻿722
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorize'& Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $100,000 to be wlithdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
exp .nditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 23 -
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request fq'd
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with'the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding qualified agreement to reim-
burse made by the Association and of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Asso-
ciation shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.


﻿-24-
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the marchives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


