Report No. PID9237
Project Name                     Ecuador-Power and Communications Sectors (@)
Modernization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Infrastructure Private Participation
Project ID                       ECPE63644
Borrower                         Republic of Ecuador
Date initial PID Prepared        February, 1999
Date PID updated                 November 14, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           June 2001
Project Board Date               September 4, 2001
Background
The performance of the telecommunications and electricity sectors has
deteriorated during the 1990s due to inadequate government policies and
managerial and financial weaknesses of the sector enterprises. The
Government of President Noboa, which assumed office in February 2000 is
committed to far-reaching sector reforms to substantially improve coverage
and efficiency of services, and has requested the Bank assistance in this
endeavour. In answer to the Government's request, the Bank is preparing the
Power and Communications Sectors Modernization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC), that will support the Government's efforts in several areas: (i)
completion of the sectors' legal and regulatory framework and strengthening
of the regulatory institutions, (ii) promotion of increased competition and
private sector participation, (iii) adoption of a sustainable strategy to
extend electricity, telecommunication and basic internet-related services to
the low-income groups, (iv) development of a nation-wide program to promote
efficient use and conservation of energy, and (v) realization of an effective
campaign to realize public consultations and dissemination campaigns with all
stakeholders.
The proposed project is a follow-on operation to the Bank's Public Enterprise
Reform Technical Assistance Project (PERTAL), completed in 1999. GEF funds
have been requested to finance the program for efficient use and conservation
of energy, and for the removal of barriers to the introduction of renewable
energy technologies (RETs) in the production of electricity in rural areas.
The project also complements the Interamerican Development Bank program of
assistance to the Ecuadorian Government in support of privatization
activities in the electricity sector.
Past Performance and Issues
Successive governments in Ecuador since the early 1990s have pursued reforms
of the infrastructure sectors, whose most tangible result has been the
modernization of the legal/regulatory/institutional frameworks for
telecommunications and electricity. The Government's Council for



Modernization of the State (CONAM), has coordinated the reform effort since
1994. However, political uncertainty and socio-economic deterioration in
recent years have been serious obstacles to reforms. In particular,
privatization efforts in telecommunications attempted in 1997-98 did not
succeed and little private investment has been mobilized for these two
sectors, which is affecting their ability to meet growing demand for their
services. Efforts to extend telecommunications and electricity services to
under- and unserviced areas and to improve the efficiency of electricity end-
use have not advanced beyond preliminary assessments. Issues related to the
Project and requiring special attention are as follows:
Economic Issues: While the initial progress in the adoption of modern
legal/regulatory/institutional sector frameworks and the promotion of
increased private participation are expected to enhance sector efficiency,
there is an urgent need for further reforms to consolidate these frameworks
and regulatory institutions and create a more competitive environment in the
two sectors. These efforts will be key to achieve sustainable improvements in
the performance, price and coverage of the services. Furthermore, while
greater efficiency and increased number of operators will bring tangible
benefits to the consumers as a whole, specific policies will still need to
be adopted to ensure that the benefits of these reforms will bring these
services at an affordable cost to the poorer segments of the population.
This is why for both sectors, measures to alleviate the impact of economic
tariff rebalancing on the poor need to be developed. The financing, scope,
and operations of dedicated funds for rural telecommunications and
electrification funds (FODETEL; FERUM) need to be defined and put into
operation. Efforts to expand on-grid electrification should be complemented
with a strategy to develop off-grid rural electrification to ensure coverage
of remote areas. Similarly, a broad range of technological options in
telecommunications should also allow to reach these remote areas. With
respect to the broader subject of ensuring the sustainability of the
improvements in performance and coverage of services through greater
competition, the following are the main issues that need to be addressed: In
electricity, the creation of a well functioning wholesale market should play
an important role in facilitating the expansion of services and the
development of competitive markets. In telecommunications, tariffs need to be
re-balanced and clear rules and regulations promoting effective competition
need to be issued. A strategy for the privatization of ANDINATEL and
PACIFITEL need to be adopted. Anti-trust safeguards and policies to ensure
free third-party access to the integrated systems need also to be
established. Finally, in both sectors, the impact of higher tariff on
resource allocation and future demand and related system capacity
requirements, as well as on cost of living, needs to be evaluated, and the
impact of the new market configuration on demand needs to be assessed.
Financial Issues: Appropriate financial and fiscal conditions need to
be created to attract private firms to undertake new investments and acquire
existing assets. Assets and liabilities of the enterprises to be offered to
private participation need to be clearly identified. Policies to ensure full
cost coverage through user charges or conversely, financially viable and
transparent subsidization schemes for the poor, need to be developed.
Institutional Issues: Autonomy, competence, and financial viability of
the regulatory and enforcement agencies need to be ensured through proper
application of laws and regulations, organizational provisions, and clear
- 2-



procedures. These agencies' responsibilities need to be clearly defined and
monitorable performance indicators developed. Consultation arrangements
between the public entities, service providers, and consumers need to be
established. Requirements related to the sector entities' scope of
activities, organization, operational procedures, staffing, training, and
information technology need to be addressed at an early stage of reform.
Finally, effective coordination among the various government entities
involved in the design and implementation of the different policies and
programs, notably in the extension of services to the rural areas, will be a
determinant factor in the success of these reforms.
Social Issues: Optimal approaches to expanding the delivery of
services to low-income groups need to be defined through social assessments
of the affected populations, including approaches to assist the poor through
targeted interventions. The impact of liberalized markets and tariff reforms
for electricity and telecommunications on the poor needs to be evaluated, and
specific policies need to be designed in such a way as to avoid additional
hardships for the poor (see economic issues). To ensure that the reform
will adequately balance the interests of the different stakeholders, the
preparation of government plans to extend electricity and telecommunications
to rural and other marginalized populations need to be made subject to
consultation and participation with stakeholders. Finally, a similar public
information effort will be needed to disseminate the content and scope of the
development strategy of the Government in the two sectors. (see communication
and participatory requirement below).
Environmental Issues: The Project would largely provide technical
assistance. It would only finance investments related to (a) the
implementation of pilot schemes for rural telephony and electrification and
provision of internet access and services to for micro and small firms, and
the implementation of the energy efficiency and conservation program, and (b)
information technology equipment for the sector entities. However, as a
result of sector reforms and privatization, increased activities in the
sectors are expected, necessitating specific environmental regulations and
norms addressing investment and operations and stricter enforcement of
compliance. Consequently, draft environmental regulations for electricity
have been prepared by the Government and reviewed by the World Bank's
environmental staff, as part of the overall support of the Bank to the
development of a sound legal and regulatory framework for the sector.
In addition, activities to be directly supported by the Project, such as
pilot projects for rural telephony and electrification, will need to comply
with the Bank's environmental guidelines and norms. The Bank will review
tender documents for investments and operations in telecommunications and
electricity financed by the Project, including review of environmental and
social issues related to these investments, to ensure that the Project
provides the necessary support to sustainable development.
Finally, the project will have a direct positive environmental impact, as one
of its component aims to reduce the amount of C02 emissions through the design
and implementation of a program promoting the efficient use and conservation
of energy and the use of RETs, specially in the rural areas.
Consultation and Participatory Requirements
-3-



Expanded and more reliable service would benefit those populations currently
with inferior or no service. Improved social-environmental regulations,
enforcement of adequate operative standards, and emphasis on participation by
affected communities in decisions on project design and implementation would
benefit populations living near installations for operations. Consultations
of sub-national governments and non-governmental organizations will be sought
to ensure consistency of investment schemes with regional sustainable
development.
There have been deficiencies in the past in eliciting the support of
stakeholders and other members of civil society for the Government's reforms
in the two sectors in general and for its privatization program in the
telecommunications sector in particular; and this has aggravated the
political difficulties to advance with the implementation of the reforms.
The project would strengthen CONAM's communication and consultation
capacities to inform the public about measures already adopted, consult with
different members of the civil society with a view to establish consensus on
the principal reform issues, and undertake internal consultation and
communications programs aimed at the employees of the telecommunications
enterprises slated for privatization. The project would also assist the
entities in charge of implementing policies and regulating the sectors in
order to increase transparency and public awareness.
Project Objectives and Scope
The Project would support the Government's efforts to improve prospects for
increased efficiency, quality, access, and long-term viability of
telecommunications and electricity services. These objectives will be
achieved through various project components, supporting:
(i). the development of sound regulatory frameworks and efficient regulatory
institutions as the pillars for establishing an arm-length regulation that
will ensure the functioning of liberalized markets while protecting consumers
and investors;
(ii). the fostering of competition and increased private participation in
the sectors, through the development of an enabling environment for private
sector participation and the design and implementation of pilot projects for
delivery of services by private providers (see iii) in the electricity and
telecommunications sectors, and through the support for the privatization of
the historical operators in the telecommunications sector, ANDINATEL and
PACIFITEL:
(iii). the development of sustainable policies for providing services to the
poor at an affordable cost, and the actual extension of services to low
income groups on a pilot basis, covering rural electrification and telephony
as well as the provision of internet access and related services for small
and micro businesses in urban and peri-urban areas:
(iv). the implementation of programs for efficient use and conservation of
energy, which will include a public information campaign and training
activities to foster efficient end-use of energy, the development of
standards for the design and use of energy efficient equipment and for energy
efficient architectural designs, the support for the development of energy
- 4 -



service companies, and the implementation of demonstration projects;
(v) The development of appropriate public consultation and information
mechanisms to ensure effective consultation with, and participation by,
stakeholders in the decisions on reforms and specific measures.
The total cost of the reforms supported by the Project amounts to an estimate
of US$ 21.7 million. This cost would be financed in part through a proposed
World Bank loan for US$ 14.35 million and a proposed GEF Grant of US$ 2.25
million to the Government of Ecuador.
Project Implementation
The individual components of the Project will be implemented by the
respective sector regulatory/enforcement and market management entities, and
will be coordinated by CONAM's Public Enterprise Unit, which will conduct all
project procurement and disbursement activities. CONAM will (i) disseminate
information to potential consultants on specific assignments, (ii) invite
proposals and evaluate and negotiate contracts, (iii) supervise the execution
of contracts, review their results, and undertake financial settlements, and
(iv) coordinate project monitoring and evaluation.
Project Sustainability
Results from this project are expected to be sustainable provided that (i)
the legal/ regulatory and institutional frameworks for the two sectors and
underlying policies are maintained; (ii) the sector institutions are given
the necessary autonomy and resources to competently exercise their functions;
and (iii) private investors respond to the Government's reform policies and
programs.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
- Clear government commitment, general political consensus in favor of
reform, and a modern legal/regulatory/institutional framework are critical
to the success of programs aimed at sector reforms and enhanced private
participation;
- Early communication with, and participation by principal stakeholders need
to be given high priority lest the reform process would be derailed;
- Macroeconomic and social conditions have a strong impact on the outcome of
reform programs;
- Autonomous, competent, and self-financed regulatory and enforcement
agencies are needed to grant new licenses, resolve disputes, and protect
the public interest;
- Continuity of direction and management at the project coordinating and
implementing agencies needs to be ensured; and
- Project coordination and implementation units need to be carefully
staffed, with emphasis on sectoral experience and networking skills, to
avoid that projects are mismanaged or stalled.
Program Objective category:      Institution building; private sector
development;
poverty alleviation
-5-



Contact:
Philippe Durand
Task Manager
(202) 473-3244
The InfoShop
The World Bank Group
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433, USA
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Telefax:     (202) 522-1500
Note:  This information in on an evolving project.     Certain components may be
modified or not necessarily been included in the final project.
- 6 -



