Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22519-EC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED IBRD LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$23.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
A GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
TRUST FUND OF US$2.84 MILLION
FOR A
POWER AND COMMUNICATIONS SECTORS MODERNIZATION AND RURAL SERVICES
PROJECT (PROMEC)
October 23, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 2000)
Currency Unit - US$
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANDINATEL    Fixed line telecommunications operator in the Andean region
BDS             Business Development Services
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CENACE          Centro Nacional de Control de Energia (National Center for Energy
Control)
CONAM           Consejo Nacional de Mfodernizacidn (National Council for
Modernization)
CONATEL         Consejo Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National Council of
Telecommunications)
CONECEL         Ecuadorian cellular operator owned by PORTA
CONELEC         Consejo Nacional de Electricidad (National Council of Electricity)
DEREE           Department of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency, MEM
EIA             Environment Impact Assessment
EIU             Economist Intelligence Unit
EMETEL          Empresa Estatal de Telecomunicaciones (National
Telecommunications Company)
ESCO            Energy Services Company
ETAPA           Empresa Publica Ml/unicipal de Telecom unicaciones, Agua Potable Y
Alcantarillado del Canton Cuenca (Cuenca's Municipal Enterprise for
Telecommunications, Water and Sanitation)
FERUM           Fondo de Electrlficaci6n Rural y Urbano Marginal (Rural and
Marginal Urban Electrification Fund)
FODETEL         Fondo de Telefonia Rural (Rural Telephony Fund)
GHGs            Greenhouse Gases
ICT             Infornation and Communication Technology
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IETEL           Instiuto Ecuatoriano de Telecomunicaciones (Ecuadorian Institute of
Telecommunications)
INE             National Institute of Energy
INECEL          Ecuadorian National Institute of Electrification
INFODEV         Inforrnation for Development Program, World Bank
ISP             Independent Service Provider
ITU             International Telecommunications Union
LACI            Loan Administration Change Initiative
LPG             Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MEC             Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports
MEM             Ministry of Energy and Mines
MICIP           Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Fisheries
MH              Ministry of Health
MOD             Ministry of Defense
MSBs            Micro & Small Businesses
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
OLADE           Organizacion Latinoamericana de Energia (Latin American Energy
Organization)
OTECEL          Ecuadorian cellular operator owned by BellSouth
PACIFICTEL    Fixed line telecommunications operator in the coastal region
PERTAL          Public Enterprise Reform Technical Assistance Loan
PIP             Project Implementation Plan
PMR             Project Management Report
PMU             Project Management Unit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
RET             Renewable Energy Technology
RFP             Request for Proposal
SENATEL         Secretaria Nacional de Telecomnunicaciones (National Secretary of
Telecommunications)
SOE             Statement of Expenditures
SUPTEL          Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones (Superintendency of
Telecommunications)
TOR             Terms of Reference
UEP             Public Enterprise Reform Unit, CONAM
UNFCCC          United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
WEM             Wholesale Electricity Market
WTO             World Trade Organization
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Director:  Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director:   Danny M. Leipziger
Task Manager:   Philippe Durand



ECUADOR
POWER AND COMMUNICATIONS SECTORS MODERNIZATION AND RURAL SERVICES
PROJECT (PROMEC)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        3
2. Global objective                                                                     3
3. Key performance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  13
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       15
3. Benefits and target population                                                      16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         25
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            25
2. Financial                                                                           27
3. Technical                                                                           27
4. Institutional                                                                       27
5. Environmnental                                                                      29
6. Social                                                                              30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  33



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    33
2. Critical risks                                                                    34
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    36
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           36
2. Other                                                                             37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         37
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        37
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         38
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   49
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        57
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          58
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   96
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      97
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   105
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 107
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                108
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          109
Annex 11: Social and Environmental Analysis                                            111
MAP(S)
IBRD 30839R (Electricity Sector)
IBRD 31554 (Ecuador - Household Access to Electricity Service)
IBRD 30834 (Telecommunications Sector)
IBRD 31553 (Ecuador - Household Access to Telecommunications Services)



ECUADOR
Power and Comrnunications Sectors Modernization and Rural Services Project (PROMEC)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFE
Date: October 23, 2001                            Team Leader: Philippe J. Durand
Country Manager/Director: Isabel M. Guerrero      Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P063644                               Sector(s): CC - Telecommunications & Informatics, PP -
Electric Power & Other Energy Adjustnent
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Energy; Private Sector; Telecom & Informatics
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Global Supplemental ID: P072527                   Team Leader: Philippe J. Durand
Focal Area: G                                     Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Supplement Fully Blended? Yes                     Sector(s): DI - Private Infrastructure
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant     I I Guarantee    I I Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 23.0
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 8                           Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.85% first 4 years, 0.75% thereafter   Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        4.81           2.15           6.96
IBRD                                                            9.38          13.62         23.00
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                              7.96           2.49          10.45
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     0.44           2.40           2.84
Total:                                                         22.59          20.66         43.25
Borrower/Recipient: REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
Responsible agency: STATE MODERNIZATION COUNCIL
CONAM
Address: Av. Juan Le6n Mera 130, Edif. Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional, Piso 9
Contact Person: Arq. Patricio Donoso, Principal Coordinator, UEP
Tel: (593-22) 509 432          Fax: (593-22) 509 437            Email: pdonoso@conam.gov.ec
Other Agency(ies):
National Electricity Council (CONELEC), National Center for Electricity Control (CENACE), National
Telecommunications Council (CONATEL), Superintendency of Telecommunications (SUPTEL), Ministry of Energy and
Mines (MEM), Ministry of Trade and Industry (MICIP)
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005
Annual    3.50       10.26       6.35       2.89
Cumulative    3.50       13.76      20.11      23.00
Project implementation period: 4 years (January 31, 2002 - December 31, 2005)
Expected effectiveness date: 01/31/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006



GEF Grant: Project ID P072527
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
~0: tt:py: li2002  t  : S 2003   : :  4:2004 : tl     :2005
Annual    0.30        1.45      0.80      0.29
Cumulative    0.30       1.75      2.55       2.84
OCS PAD F- R. M-  2000
- 2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project would support the Government's efforts to deepen reforms in the telecommunications and
electricity sectors, by strengthening regulatory institutions and improving environmental management of the
sectors' activities, fostering competition and increasing private participation, promoting efficient use of
energy, extending coverage in underserved areas and providing modem information and communication
technologies (ICT)-supported services to micro and small businesses (MSBs), and enhancing
communication and consultation in the sectors.
2. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
The GEF-funded components would promote private financing and management of projects to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions, by removing barriers to the use of: (i) renewable energy technologies (RET) to
extend electricity supply in rural areas (GEF Operational Program No. 6); and (ii) energy efficiency
measures (GEF Operational Program No. 5).
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The performance indicators are listed below (see also core indicators in Annex la). The detailed indicators
that will be used to monitor the sectors and the Project's impact and outputs are included in CONAM's
Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Regulatory and institutional development in the telecommunications and electricity sectors
*   Improved effectiveness of the Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones (SUPTEL) and the Consejo
Nacional de Electricidad (CONELEC) to regulate the sectors, and undertake timely public
consultations and dissemination of regulatory decisions.
a   Completed environmental regulations and procedures in the electricity sector and strengthened capacity
of CONELEC and other institutions including sector operators, to promote a better environmental
management of sector activities.
*   Establishment of a liberalized wholesale electricity market (WEM), as shown by a greater number of
private operators in the interconnected system, a larger volume of transactions in the WEM, and a
more efficient administration of the wholesale market by CENACE.
*   Increased number of private operators providing rural telecommunications, decentralized rural
electrification, energy efficiency services and ICT-based services to MSB.
Extension of rural electricity and telecommunications services
*   Adoption of a sustainable strategy to extend electricity services, including efficient subsidization,
financing and delivery mechanisms, and community participation.
*   Successful completion of replicable pilot projects for rural telecommunications and electricity.
Expanded internet access and business services to MSB
* Successful completion of a replicable pilot project for ICT-supported services to MSBs in urban and
peri-urban areas, showing improvement in MSBs market outreach, competitiveness and growth.
Increased end-use energy efficiency
*   Design and launching of a program to enhance efficiency in the use of energy.
*   Successful implementation of demonstration projects with good replicability prospects.
- 3 -



Implementation of effective public consultations and information mechanisms
*   Systematic consultation and dissemination of regulatory and privatization decisions.
* Growing public consensus in support of the Government's sector reform and privatization program.
GEF performance indicators
*   Actual tons of CO2 reduced through the energy efficiency and RET-based rural electrification
programs.
*   Estimated tons of CO2 expected to be reduced through the implementation of subsequent energy
efficiency projects and through use of RETs instead of fossil fuel-based rural electrification.
*   Definition and adoption of a strategy, regulations and policies for the sustained development, with
private participation, of (i) decentralized rural electrification, and (ii) enhanced energy efficiency.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-102(IFC/R2000-1 11) Date of latest CAS discussion: Jun 22, 00 (Progress Report)
The Ecuadorian economy had been weak since the early 1980s, with falling GDP per capita and increasing
public debt, due primarily to political instability, growing regional tensions and social unrest, which often
paralyzed policy actions and lead to inadequate or even inappropriate policy responses. This was
exacerbated by external shocks and natural disasters in the late 1990s, and finally resulted in Ecuador's
default in September 1999. That year, real GDP fell by over 7 percent and real wages by 25 percent, while
unemployment increased to over 16 percent and annual inflation to 60 percent.
The economic crisis had a profound impact on the poor. The poverty rate increased from 29.2 percent in
1995 to 43 percent in 1998 and 69 percent in 2000, while the number of people in extreme poverty
(insufficient income for a minimum food basket) doubled from 17 percent in 1997 to 34 percent in 1999.
Poverty is highest in rural areas and among the indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian population.
In March 2000, the Government announced an economic program to (i) restore confidence in economic
management, (ii) stem the decline of economic activity and living standards, and (iii) lay the foundations for
renewed growth. The centerpieces of the program are dollarization and structural reforms, including an
enhanced role for the private sector.
Since Ecuador's dollarization process last year, the overall macroeconomic situation has improved vastly.
Growth estimates were revised upwards and the decline in inflation has been even greater than expected.
Economic growth rebounded 7.3% in the first half and is expected to end the year at 5-6%. Monthly
inflation is now under one percent, and will end the year below 20%--a sharp decline from nearly 100% in
2000. The more stable macro environment has encouraged investment, which has tripled this year.
Investment was led by the construction of a new oil pipeline, which, once constructed, will double
Ecuador's carrying capacity.
Pent-up demand and increased investments, however, saw imports rise steeply and the trade accounts
deteriorate to a small negative from a substantial surplus. Moreover, the real appreciation of the exchange
rate has hampered non-traditional exports. Remittances-Ecuador's second largest foreign exchange
earner-- are declining as the global economy slows. As a result, this year's current account deficit is
expected to be 4% of GDP, compared with a surplus of 5.3% of GDP in 2000.
- 4 -



The fiscal accounts are in sound shape, and despite a few setbacks with implementing a VAT increase, they
will likely show a small surplus this year-a notable achievement for a country with a historical record of
fiscal mismanagement. To maintain fiscal prudence, a major fiscal reform, including elimination of tax
ear-marking and the creation of an oil stabilization fund, is scheduled to be presented to Congress this year.
The last CAS Progress Report was discussed by the Board on June 22, 2000, setting the Bank strategy for
2000-02. It responds to the difficult economic situation in Ecuador, by focusing Bank assistance on three
objectives: (i) increasing social services and safety nets for the poor; (ii) restoring macro-financial stability
and economic growth (through, inter alia, expanding the role of the private sector); and (iii) promoting
sustainable development and productivity by the poor (including improved environmental management and
rural development).
The proposed project, including its GEF component, will contribute directly to CAS objectives (ii) and (iii):
Restoring macro-financial stability and economic growth: The Project promotes competition and private
participation in the provision of telecommunications, electricity, internet and business services, and
supports the development of sound legal, regulatory and institutional sector frameworks. These policies
will facilitate private sector growth and employment generation in these sectors, and more efficient delivery
of services and hence a reduction in costs for other sectors. In addition, privatization of electricity will
generate fiscal revenues and remove the current fiscal burden from government-owned companies in these
sectors.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Promoting sustainable development and productivity by the poor: The Project promotes the use of
renewable energy for rural electrification and assists in the design and implementation of programs to
promote energy efficiency. The Project also supports the Government's action plan to improve the
environmental management of activities in the electricity and telecommunications sectors, through (a) the
design and implementation of specific environmental regulations, procedures and guidelines for the
electricity sector; (b) the strengthening of the institutional capacity to address environmental issues of
sector regulators, operators, and other institutions like the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) and
CONAM; and (c) the development of information and monitoring instruments to facilitate the design and
enforcement of environmental policies.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
Overview of the sectors (1999 data): With 9.1 main telephone lines per 100 inhabitants (vs. 13.2 main
telephone lines per 100 inhabitants for LAC) and 82 faults per 100 main telephone lines per year (vs. 20
faults per line in Bolivia and five in Mexico), coverage and quality of telecommunications services in
Ecuador lags far behind regional averages. National coverage of electricity is relatively high (80 percent of
total population), but Ecuador's power demand has been growing, despite the sluggish economy, and is
expected to accelerate as the economy recovers. However, generation capacity is having trouble keeping
pace (especially during dry years, due to heavy reliance on hydropower), and transmission and distribution
facilities have deteriorated.  In both sectors, the rural coverage is low (rural areas have only 1.6 main
telephone lines per 100 inhabitants in rural areas, and 45 percent of the rural population has no access to
electricity), which accentuates the urban-rural poverty gap. The lack of adequate services hinders the
- 5-



international competitiveness of Ecuadorian firms and limits the provision of adequate education and health
services.
Sector Reforms in the early 1990s. Ecuador initiated electricity and telecommunications reforms in the
early 1990s, with the adoption of new sector legislation and regulations, the creation of regulatory and
electricity wholesale market institutions, and the break-up of the national monopolies. The new laws and
regulations include mechanisms to make services more accessible and affordable to the poor, as well as to
make the power sector more environmentally sound.  The Bank provided support under the Public
Enterprise Reform Technical Assistance Loan (PERTAL). However, the initial effort to sell the new
regional telecomrnunications companies, ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL, failed and privatization of the
electricity companies was delayed pending necessary tariff increases.
Main sector issues
Despite the advances achieved since the early 1990s, the reforms can only be completed and sustained if
actions are taken to address the following issues:
Telecommunications
Incomplete legal and regulatory framework:
The 1995 reforms to the telecommunications law, important as they were, did not provide a complete and
coherent legal framework for long-term growth. The Government introduced to Congress a new draft
telecommunications law in 1999, aimed at simplifying and modernizing current legislation. However, the
Government withdrew this draft a few days later due to insufficient political support. The Government
then changed its strategy, sending to Congress the minimum changes required in the current law to open the
market to competition.  Furthermore, the Economic Transformation Law, enacted in March 2000,
mandated the end of exclusivity for the wireline operators.
Current regulations to the Law need to be updated to protect new entrants against possible abuse from the
incumbent operators, for example in the interconnection terms and conditions. As the sector progresses
towards full competition, CONATEL should aim to simplify procedures to obtain new licenses. This
would be critical to increasing private sector participation in the sector.
Although the cellular companies can compete effectively against ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL by
connecting international calls using their own networks, other fixed-service operators cannot. Because
ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL are unable to meet demand, these other operators rent facilities to private
companies illegally. Legalization of this activity would contribute to transparency and facilitate fair
competition among all participants. As a first step towards legalization, ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL
concession contracts were amended in April 2001 to remove the exclusivity provisions.
Current tariff levels are inadequate to cover the cost of local telephone services, which makes it difficult to
attract badly needed private investment. At the same time, however, the ongoing economic crisis has made
it more difficult for the poor to bear an increase in the rates. The 1995 law launched the process of tariff
rebalancing and created special "popular tariffs," but these are ill targeted as they are based on location
rather than income level. Local rates have remained significantly below cost, cross-subsidized by high
international rates, but the latter are not sustainable in light of international competition. However, in
November 2000, CONATEL issued a decree with an adjustment plan that would rebalance tariffs
adequately, including local rates, by December 2002; the plan is being implemented as scheduled.
- 6 -



Insufficient institutional capacity and cumbersome regulatory setup
Although the institutions created by law in 1992 and strengthened by the 1995 law are already functional,
they are still building up their technical expertise and capacity needed to regulate and supervise the sector,
to enforce proper environmental guidelines and to communicate with sector enterprises and consumers.
The success of important measures, like the opening of the sector to new investors and increasing access of
the poor, will depend heavily on the performance of the sector regulators.
There are four institutions in charge of defining sector policies and regulating the sector: CONATEL,
SENATEL (which is defacto CONATEL's executive implementing agency), CONARTEL and SUPTEL.
While the division between CONATEL as regulator and SUPTEL as monitoring agency may be viable, the
division of the allocation and control of licenses between CONATEL (for telecommunications) and
CONARTEL (for broadcasting services) is not consistent with the rapid convergence of all communication
and information services.  However, the law establishes final authority for license allocation with
CONATEL over CONARTEL.
Poor performance andfinancial weaknesses of operators
ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL are the sole providers of fixed-line telephony (except in Cuenca, where
ETAPA has service exclusivity). Since their creation in 1992, these government-owned enterprises have
been slow to introduce new lines and services and to improve service quality, as they have lacked the
financial resources and autonomy to make needed investments. Their financial weaknesses are due
primarily to overstaffing, inadequate local tariffs, and, in the case of PACIFICTEL, weak management.
This has made it difficult for the two operators to compete effectively with private cellular companies in
local telephony.
Shortfalls of previous privatization effort
The attempted sale in 1997-98 of 35 percent of the shares of ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL failed
because no investors would meet the base price of over $2,000/line. This minimum price was high relative
to those set in other Latin American and Caribbean countries, especially in light of: (i) the low local rates
and high investment obligations under the proposed concessions; (ii) sharply reduced accounting rates on
calls to the U.S. (as set by the U.S. Federal Communications Conmmission); (iii) the small size of both
ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL operations; (iv) the fact that only a minority share (35 percent) of each
company was for sale; (v) the limited credibility of the 1997-98 transition government in Ecuador; (vi) the
major turmoil in intemational financial markets at that time; and (vii) the legal and constitutional challenges
to the changes made in 1995 in the Telecommunications Law.
Electricity
Gaps in the regulatoryframework
While the overall reforned framework is satisfactory, specific regulations need to be elaborated and
applied, especially regarding: (i) tariff setting and transmission charges; (ii) the operation of the wholesale
market; (iii) defense of competition; (iv) service quality; (v) environmental management; and (vi) rural
electrification. Several of these aspects will be addressed in the concession contracts of the distribution,
transmission and generation companies that the Government undertook to privatize in 2000.
- 7 -



Weak institutional capacity
While CONELEC and CENACE have been operating since 1998 and 1999, respectively, both entities need
to considerably improve their procedures and technical capacity, inter-agency relationships, and dealings
with sector enterprises and consumers, in order to: (i) ensure adequate protection to investors and
consumers; (ii) foster effective competition; (iii) promote extension of services in rural areas; and (iv)
monitor and mitigate the environmental impact of activities in the sector.
The Electricity Law grants CONELEC specific attributions to supervise environmental management in the
sector, in coordination with the Environment Ministiy, which is the main authority in the field. While
CONELEC has the necessary expertise to regulate and supervise enviromnental impacts, responsibilities
are presently fragmented within CONELEC without sufficient coordination between two different
departments. The lack of coordination precludes a coherent application of environmental policies and has
often resulted in conflicting criteria for environmental impact assessments. CONELEC's institutional
weakness on the environmental front has been compounded by the lack of appropriate information and
monitoring systems (guidelines, databases and equipment). The lack of information on air quality, acid rain
and other environmental parameters, and insufficient development of instruments to assess and monitor
electricity projects limit the effectiveness of environmental sector regulations to appropriately mitigate
negative environmental impact.
Inadequate tariffs
Electricity prices are still below economic costs on average. During November 1999-May 2000, tariffs
were frozen despite rapidly accelerating inflation, and fell to less than one-third of economic costs. In May
2000, tariffs were increased by 70 percent on average, but consumption of up to 300 kwh/mo. in the
Andean region and 400 kwh/mo. in the Coastal region remained subsidized. These ceilings for subsidies are
r-ather high, and benefit mainly the better off -- since low-income households rarely consume above 200
kwh/mo. The resultant total subsidization for consumption of electricity was nearly US$300 million (1.5
percent of GDP) in 2000. The one time increase in tariffs was followed by regular monthly increases of 4
percent for those levels of consumption that were still subsidized. On October 30, 2000, CONELEC did
not accept a request from the distribution companies for an additional 30 percent increase, pending an
evaluation of the cost information. So far, the tariff adjustment program has resulted in a 3.25 percent
monthly increase of the average tariff, from USc 4.2 per Kwh in June 2000 (after the initial increase) to 6.4
per Kwh in July 2001. With this gradual adjustment program, the Government expects tariffs to reach the
economic cost of electricity by December 2002. However, realignment of tariffs with economic costs may
take longer or shorter depending on actual inflation rates and fuel costs.
Sub-optimal investment in the sector.
Inadequate tariffs over extended periods have led to a serious deterioration of the financial position of the
sector enterprises. Distribution enterprises are the most directly affected, but they, in turn, are late in
paying the generation and transmission entities. These financial problems, and the weak planning capacity
of the sector institutions, are two major reasons why expansion of generating capacity has not kept pace
with demand, and investment has traditionally been high cost in order to meet emergency needs, rather than
part of a least-cost expansion plan. The Transmission System is currently operating under critically weak
conditions due to the delays in the required system maintenance and the execution of scheduled
improvements, the limitations of the existing integrated grid that are affecting the quality of services, and
the fiscal limitations of Transelectric that prevent the optimal expansion of the grid. Some US$200
million/year in new generation capacity will be required during 2001-03 to meet demand, with a similar
investment need for distribution and transmission.
- 8 -



Lack of access to electricity in rural areas
In 1999, 80.3 percent of the population in Ecuador had access to electricity, but this national average hides
a huge rural/urban gap: 95.8 percent of the urban population, but only 54.9 percent in the rural zones.
According to the current 2000-09 Electrification Plan prepared by CONELEC, coverage is expected to
increase to 65 percent in the rural areas over the next ten years. However, this Plan presents two important
shortcomings. First, and most importantly, the Plan in its current version only considers increases in
coverage achieved through grid extensions, which will be financed in part by the Fondo de Electrificaci6n
Rural y Urbano Marginal (FERUM) with resources principally levied from industrial and commercial
users. The Plan does not include options for developing off grid projects to reach populations away from
the grid, and there is no financing mechanism, similar to FERUM, that could ensure their financial
sustainability. There is, however, also a need to reach areas far from the grid, where the use of RETs is
often an efficient solution. In these remote areas, where the population lacks other infrastructure such as
roads, telephones, potable water and easy access to health and education, the social and economic benefits
of electrification may be high, but there are many barriers to service, such as: (i) weak government
capacity for development and implementation of an electrification strategy for these areas; (ii) high
first-cost of RET relative to consumers' ability to pay, and lack of financing/credit systems to facilitate
purchase; (iii) lack of financial motivation, appropriate cost structures and regulatory obligations for
existing distribution utilities to serve dispersed populations; and (iv) lack of other established commercial
enterprises which understand and are willing to serve such markets. A second shortcomning of the Plan is
the absence of reliable and updated statistics, as the basic data stems from the 1990 Census. This imposes
a serious limitation to the usefulness of the current Electrification Plan as a tool to program, monitor and
evaluate the progress achieved in extending electricity services to the most rural and remote areas in the
country.
Low level of implementation and monitoring of environmental guidelines
While the overall legal framework is satisfactory and reflects a coherent policy to promote sound
environmental management in the electricity sector, actual implementation has lagged behind due to the
lack of specific environmental regulations and procedures, weak institutional capacity of CONELEC in this
field, and the absence of instruments to assess the environmental impact of projects and monitor
compliance. As an example, official guidelines for environmental audits of the firms in the sector have yet
to be adopted, most of the environmental impact assessments (EIA) of electricity firms approved so far are
not subject to monitoring, and environmental audits of the firms to be privatized are by and large
incomplete. Furthermore, there has been scant community participation in the different stages of the EIA
due in part to the absence of a communication campaign and the lack of established participation
mechanisms.
Inefficient Use of Energy
Due to a history of energy subsidies, the efficiency of both electricity and fuels use in Ecuador is very poor,
as shown by both the wasteful habits of end-users and the high energy consumption of existing lighting,
appliances and equipment in homes, buildings and factories, or currently available in the marketplace.
Rising electricity prices should induce changes in attitudes regarding electricity usage and associated
equipment purchase. Nevertheless, to improve its energy efficiency, Ecuador must correct the lack of: (i)
additional financial incentives, including more sophisticated time of use tariffs for industry and programs to
address the higher initial cost of energy efficient equipment; (ii) a general understanding (in all end-use
sectors) of energy costs and how these can be reduced; (iii) availability of more energy-efficient appliances
such as refrigerators and air conditioners, and standards and efficiency labeling for this equipment; (iv)
-9-



institutional and technical capacity in government and private sector institutions to develop a strategy to
address efficiency needs, with involvement of stakeholders; and (v) economic pricing of some fuels such as
LPG, the primary household fuel for cooking and water heating.
ICT-sumDorted Services for Micro and Small Businesses (MSBs)
Lack of access to ICT adapted to MSBs needs
E-readiness indicates the degree to which a country is prepared to participate in the Networked World. It is
gauged by assessing a country's relative advancement in the areas that are most critical for ICT adoption
(e.g., network connectivity, ICT policies, and ICT skills) and in the most important, ICT applications (e.g.,
use of the Internet). Ecuador's ICT environment is less developed than that of most other Latin American
countries. Ecuador faces a number of challenges as it attempts to overcome the ICT gap between itself and
its more advanced neighbors, as well as reduce its internal ICT gaps (i.e., between the rich and the poor,
between urban and rural areas, and among large, small and micro businesses).
The essential steps that Ecuador must take in order to improve its overall "e-readiness" and to reduce the
ICT gaps among various segments of its population are to: (i) increase access to ICT infrastructure; (ii)
develop specific on-line local content (e.g., at the country, region and city level, as well as industry- and
sector-specific local content); (iii) foster development of e-government and e-commerce; and (iv) enhance
competition in its telecommunications sector and improve ICT-related policies. These issues are discussed
in more detail below (the data are sourced primarily from the EIU, 2001):
*  Access to telephone, computers and the internet. 9 percent of people in Ecuador (versus 21 percent in
Chile and 16 percent in Colombia) have a fixed phone, 3 percent of people in Ecuador (versus 14
percent in Chile and 8 percent in Colombia) have a mobile phone, 2 percent of the population own a
computer (versus 7 percent in Chile and 3 percent in Colombia) and there are 29 internet users per
10,000 people (versus 467 in Chile and 158 in Colombia);
*   Telephone and internet costs. In 1999, telephone charges in Ecuador were very low, only $0.01 for a
local call of 3 minutes, (versus $0.12 in Chile and $0.04 in Colombia). There are currently 27 ISPs in
the country (the largest ones are: Satnet, Acccesslnternet, Ecuanet and Andinanet). Although the cost
of internet access has been decreasing since 1998, Independent Service Providers (ISP) charge $25-$36
per month for unlimited use, plus 12 percent value added tax and 15 percent of other taxes. Unete, one
of Latin American largest ISPs, plans to enter Ecuador and offer free access to the internet this year,
which would increase the number of internet users and would likely seriously challenge the local major
ISPs;
* On-line local content. Both local and international ISPs and online companies have been developing
local websites in Ecuador. The most popular sites are the portals: ecuadorexplorer.com, ecuador.com.,
quito.com and a few ISP sites, such as: satnet.com, ecua.net.ec, ecuanex.net.ec, accessinter.net,
ecuanet.net, andinanet.com. However, despite the existence of sites providing local information, there is
still a strong need to develop websites providing industry- and sector-specific information, as well as
information at the regional and local level. A strong collaborative effort between the private and the
public sector is needed to create websites offering relevant local content;
*   E-commerce. Low credit card and PC penetration rates, along with inadequate communications
infrastructure, hinder the ability to develop a mass consumer culture for e-commerce. There are only
30,000 estimated card holders in Ecuador and only about 2.8 million people have checking accounts.
Ecuadorian companies have been slow to invest in business to business (B2B) commerce. The
- 1 0 -



country's first B2B e-commerce site was launched in June 2000 by Metamorf, a local firm operating in
the fresh-cut flower industry, Ecuador's six largest export. Florastream.com is a virtual marketplace
for flower exporters and buyers. More than 100 of the country's 200 exporting plantations are now
participating. In May 2000, Petroecuador, Ecuador's state- owned oil producer, announced that it was
considering selling over the internet; and
Communications with stakeholders
Weak communications capacity
CONAM, and the regulatory agencies of the telecommunications and electricity sectors have not been able
to develop and implement an effective communication strategy with stakeholders on the reform and
privatization program in these sectors. Professional communications skills - except in journalism - are
scarce in Ecuador, and the value of key functions such as strategic communications, opinion research, and
social marketing has yet to be recognized.
Lack of public understanding and support for reforms
As a result of this lack of dialogue with stakeholders on the reform programs, wide segments of the
population have little understanding of the costs and benefits of regulation and privatization of the
telecommunications and electricity sectors. The resulting suspicion of and opposition to the reforms has
been a serious obstacle to the Government's efforts to modernize these sectors.
Government Strategy
The Government is committed to reducing poverty and reactivating the economy by deepening the sectoral
reforms started under previous administrations (1995-99), promoting Ecuador's integration into
international markets, and fostering private participation in the delivery of public services. To help achieve
this, the administration has adopted a development strategy in the telecommunications and electricity
sectors that extends the market-oriented reforms initiated in the early 1990s and addresses explicitly the
most critical issues still pending in each sector, as discussed above. Specifically, the strategy in the two
sectors has five main objectives:
m completing the legal and regulatory frameworks and strengthening the regulatory and supervisory
agencies to provide a stable environment with clear rules that will attract investment while protecting
consumers and investors;
* opening the sectors to new investors, starting with the issuing of new licenses for mobile
telecommunications services, the hiring of private companies to manage ANDINATEL and
PACIFICTEL, and going forward with the privatization of the electricity generation, transmission and
distribution firms, starting with 17 distribution companies;
* improving the living standards of the poor and broadening the opportunities for MSBs by extending
access to electricity, telecommunications, internet, and ICT-based business services in rural and
marginal urban areas;
* implementing environmentally sound policies in the electricity sector that reduce pollution and the
emission of CO2. To this end, the Government will undertake promotion activities and implement
investment programs to support the supply and use of renewable energy technologies and more
i energy-efficient equipment and facilities; and
* developing effective communication and consultation mechanisms in order to build social consensus
around the reform programs in the two sectors.
- 11 -



Telecommunications. The March 2000 Economic Transformation Law increased the permitted level of
private participation in ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL from 35 percent to 51 percent, while eliminating
the existing exclusivity arrangements for the provision of basic services. On this basis, the Government pl
ans to: (a) tender new licenses for operating fixed and mobile services to compete against existing
operators; (b) attract private companies to manage ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL through long-term
management contracts; (c) improve regulations of the sector by engaging consultants to make a full review
of critical regulations, like interconnection of operators, to stimulate competition; (d) rebalance rates,
through CONATEL's Resolution 456 of October 7, 2000 that authorized tariff rebalancing by semi-annual
adjustments to end in December 2002; (e) avoid overlapping of responsibilities between regulatory entities,
in charge of Radio and TV Broadcasting (CONARTEL) and Telecommunications (CONATEL); and (f)
promote universal service, through CONATEL's awarding of direct subsidies to the companies that win
bidding processes offering the minimum subsidy for investments to extend telecommunications services to
rural areas. In accordance with legislation already in place, CONATEL manages a fund to extend
telecommunications services in rural and peri urban areas (FODETEL), which is funded with contributions
from all service and network operators of 1 percent of annual gross revenues (this percentage is to be
reviewed by CONATEL every five years based on needs). However, in 2001 the fund only received
contributions from ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL (i.e., about US$2 million that represent a small
amount relative to investment needs for rural telecommunications investments).
Electricity. CONELEC is implementing regulations to (i) create a liberalized wholesale market for
electricity, (ii) promote the creation of competitive structures in the sector and prevent anti-competitive
behavior, (iii) move tariffs closer to economic marginal costs, and (iv) improve the environmental
management of the sector.  The Government has also decided to privatize the sector both through: (i)
selling majority participation in existing generation, transmission and distribution enterprises; and (ii)
inviting new private investment in generation. It has initiated the privatization process through assessment
of the relevant legal, financial, and technical issues, and the preparation of the promotion campaign, with
the assistance of a reputable investment bank and international specialists under financing from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Three international operators have been prequalified in July
2001, bidding documents have been finalized and bids would be requested by the end of 2001. It must be
noted that even if privatization was unsuccessful, the strengthening of power sector regulation and
wholesale market supervision and operation would be necessary to contribute to the adequate functioning of
the power sector. The Government has adopted an action plan to improve the environmental management
in the sector, based on a recently completed assessment of the existing legal, regulatory and institutional
framework in this field (see Annex 11 for a summary of the diagnostic and recommendations of the
assessment). It has prepared the Reglamento Ambiental para Actividades Electricas, that addresses most
of the bottlenecks highlighted in the assessment, starting with the creation of a Unit within CONELEC
which will be in charge of handling all environmental issues in the sector, in close coordination with the
Enviromnent Ministry.
Rural electrification. The Government is committed to the extension of electricity service, using
public/private partnerships. CONELEC and MEM-DEREE will improve the 2000-09 Electrification Plan
to design a coherent strategy that will consider both expanding coverage through grid extension and through
the implementation of off-grid projects with RETs. It is expected that grid extensions will connect about
750,000 additional persons, will be implemented by the distribution companies and will be financed in part
through the FERUM. In addition, CONELEC and MEM will define a strategy to reach the areas far from
the grid through off-grid decentralized projects with the participation of private providers and the
promotion of RETs. They will also explore financing mechanisms for the off-grid projects to ensure their
long-term sustainability. Within the framework of the Peru-Ecuador Bilateral Technical Committee on
Energy and Mining, a photovoltaic (PV)-based Rural Electrification Program aims to provide RET-based
- 12-



electricity to communities on both sides of the border. Also, in July 2000, the MEM and the Ministry of
Health jointly prepared a prograrn for the installation of PV-based electricity systems for medical
refrigerators in 94 remote clinics. In addition, with UNDP support, the MEM is preparing a project to be
jointly financed by GEF and private investors to install wind and solar power generation systems in the
Galapagos Islands.
Energy efficiency. Also within the framework of the Peru-Ecuador cooperation, MEM proposed the
2000-05 Energy Saving Program for Ecuador to: (i) improve the energy efficiency of the power system
itself; (ii) create a culture of rational use of energy among the population; (iii) increase Ecuador's industrial
competitiveness; and (iv) protect the local and global environment. This program has a potential to reduce
peak demand for electricity by about 150 MW.
Support for MSB. The Government, through the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Fisheries (MICIP),
is committed to promoting modem ICT-based business services as part of its assistance to MSB. It will
build on the existing pipeline of MICIP programs for MSB, some of which are undertaken in conjunction
with NGOs such as the Camara Nacional de Microempresas (CANAMIEC), the Centro de Promoci6n y
Empleo para el Sector Informal Urbano (CEPESIU), the Fundaci6n Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo (FED),
and the Corporaci6n Femenina Ecuatoriana (CORFEC). MICIP also manages the World Bank-fmanced
International Trade and Integration Project, which is supporting a large number of microbusinesses in
Ecuador to develop direct or indirect exports. It also has worked with PEOPLink, an INFODEV-supported
US-based NGO, which acts as a direct on-line marketing service for grassroots producers in Ecuador and
other countries by displaying their products digitally on its website.
Communication and consultation. The Government is aware of the need to develop systematic channels
of public consultation and dissemination of the major regulatory decisions and sector programs in order to
increase social acceptance of the reforms, especially in light of the failed first attempt at
telecommunications privatization and the need to raise tariffs in both sectors. To this end, the Government
has decided to strengthen CONAM's communication and consultation capabilities and to devise a
comprehensive communication and information strategy. This strategy will include: (i) research on
stakeholders' perceptions vis-a-vis reforms in general and the controversial aspects (i.e., tariff increases;
sale of state-owned enterprises to foreign investors; retrenchment of surplus labor; transparency and
competition; legal basis of privatization; minimum price for transactions, etc.) in particular; (ii) media
campaigns to inform the public about past, ongoing and planned measures; (iii) seminars and workshops
directed at members of the National Congress, labor unions, indigenous groups and NGOs in order to build
consensus on the principal reform issues; (iv) programs aimed at the employees of the enterprises slated for
privatization; and (v) consultation of stakeholders concerned by the Project's investrnents to involve them in
the design and implementation of these investments.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would support the Government's above described efforts to address sector issues by:
* completing the legal and regulatory framework with the definition and implementation of specific
regulations and procedures for the operation and expansion of the sectors and for the mitigation of
environmental impacts;
*  strengthening the entities in charge of regulating and supervising the sectors in order to increase the
effectiveness of economic, technical and environmental regulations;
*  promoting competitive markets and private sector-led growth in order to enhance efficiency in the
provision of services and attract the resources needed for expansion;
- 13 -



*   ensuring that the poorest rural inhabitants also benefit from the sectoral reforms, by adopting a
sustainable strategy to extend rural telecommunications and electricity services, and implementing
pilot programs to test the effectiveness of delivery and financing mechanisms;
*   assisting MSBs through the provision of internet access and ICT-based business services;
* ensuring that environmental considerations are incorporated into sector policies and investment
decisions, promoting the use of RETs for rural electrification, and promoting efficient use of
electricity; and
*   assisting CONAM and the sector regulatory institutions to strengthen their capacity to consult and
communicate with the various stakeholders affected by the reforms in the two sectors.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will have four major components, supporting the key areas in the Government's reform
strategy.
1. Streni-theuinz of the le2allremilatorv/institutionaI frameworks in telecommunications and
electricity
Telecommunications:
(i) Strengthening SUPTEL to supervise the sector and to undertake timely public consultations and
dissemination of regulatory decisions, and financing necessary software programs and equipment
for SUPTEL to effectively perform its supervisory functions; and
(ii) Preparing a telecommunications tariff rebalancing plan.
Electricity:
(i) Strengthening CONELEC and assisting it in the completion of electricity regulations and
procedures;
(ii) Assisting CONELEC and other sector institutions in improving sector environmental management,
by completing regulations and guidelines, strengthening institutional capacity, and developing
information and monitoring instruments;
(iii) Promoting the development of a liberalized WEM by supporting CENACE's effort to improve the
administration of the WEM with (a) the application of appropriate rules for the WEM's operation;
and (b) acquisition of necessary software and hardware; and
(iv) Conducting selected studies and support activities in the electricity sector, including tariff studies,
a study on the impact of the energy prices on the cost of living, and other studies to be defined
during project implementation.
2. Extension of services to low income groups and MSBs in rural and peri-urban areas
(i) Pilot telecommunications projects in rural and marginal urban areas to be financed through
FODETEL;
(ii) Development by MEM-DEREE and CONELEC of a national electrification strategy comprising
both grid-extension and off-grid projects;
(iii) Pilot projects for decentralized off-grid RET-based systems;
(iv) National E-readiness assessment (review of regulations and IT inventory); and
(v) Pilot projects to develop business centers with computer and internet access and ICT-based
business services to MSBs in marginal urban and large rural communities.
- 14 -



3. Design and implementation of a program to promote efficient use and conservation of electricitv
(i) Identification of barriers to efficiency enhancement, through surveys on electricity demand and
efficiency enhancement options;
(ii) Strategies and policies to remove barriers, including (a) tariff incentives to enhance end-use
efficiency; (b) standards for efficient design and use of buildings and electrical appliances,
including appliance labeling; (c) public information, and (d) support to the establishment of local
energy service companies (ESCOs), through market assessment and staff training.
(iii) Demonstration projects in industries, public lighting, hotels, commercial centers, etc.; and
(iv) Monitoring and evaluation of the program.
4.Proiect Mana2ement and Consultation and Communications Activities
(i) Carrying out by CONAM of communication and consultation activities with stakeholders and
relevant civil society organizations on the Government's aims and policies in regard to the reform
program and the project's components;
(ii) Action plan to strengthen the capacity of CONAM, SUPTEL and CONELEC to undertake timely
public consultations on major regulatory decisions, and to systematically inform stakeholders on
sector programs, regulatory decisions and procedures;
(iii) General project coordination and management by CONAM with the support of the different
implementing entities (CONATEL/FODETEL, CONELEC, CENACE, MEM-DEREE, MICIP
and the private sector);
(iv) Monitoring and Evaluation of project implementation and outputs; and
(v) Audit of project accounts.
Indicative         Bank     % of     GEF      % of
Component              Sector        Costs    % of  financing   Bank   financing   GEF
(US$M)   Total   (US$M)  financing  (US$M)  financing
A. Strengthening of legal,                    12.80     29.6  10.29       44.7    0.00      0.0
regulatory, and institutional
framework in the electricity
and telecommunications
sectors
B. Extension of Electricity and               13.82     32.0   7.35       31.9    1.61    56.7
Communications Services to
Low-Income Groups and
MSBs
C. Energy Efficiency Prograin                  7.11     16.4   0.51        2.2    1.23    43.3
D. Project Management and                      9.28     21.5   4.86       21.1    0.00      0.0
Communication and
Consultation Activities
Total Project Costs                   43.01     99.5  23.01      100.0    2.84   100.0
Front-end fee                     0.23      0.5   0.00       0.0    0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                   43.24    100.0  23.01      100.0    2.84   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Telecommunications
*   SUPTEL institutional strengthening;
*   Rural telecommunications development, through demand evaluation and development of pilot projects
through FODETEL to improve access to service, including rural telephones and commnunity telecenters;
- 15-



and
* Improvement of tariff structure.
Electricity and Energy Efficiency
* Modernization of the legal/regulatory/institutional framework to establish a competitive,
market-oriented system, based on arms-length regulation and increased private participation;
* Tariffs based on economic marginal costs, with protection of the poor via targeted subsidies;
* Strengthening of CONELEC for arms-length regulation;
* Strengthening of CENACE for operating and administering the competitive wholesale market;
* Improvement of environmental management in the electricity sector;
* Extending electricity supplies in rural areas, using RETs when appropriate; and
* Enhancing the efficiency of electricity end-use.
ICT-based Services
* Improve intellectual property protection for development of the local IT industry, particularly with
regard to software piracy;
* Development of e-commerce legislation incorporating legal obligations related to digital signature; and
* Improved data privacy and consumer protection for e-transactions.
Communication and Consultation
* Enhancing consultation on policy decisions affecting wide segments of the population; and
* Strengthening the effectiveness of CONAM in communications.
3. Benefits and target population:
General. Through improving telecommunications and electricity services, the project would contribute to
development and a better quality of life. Residents of rural areas would obtain increased access to
telecommunications and electricity. Consumers and investors would benefit from strengthened regulatory
enforcement and more transparent and accountable procedures, which reduce the risks of arbitrary
decisions. Citizens at large would also benefit from the improved environmental management of resources
in the two sectors.
Public Finance. Public expenditures would be reduced by the streamlining of the regulatory and
enforcement agencies, and their becoming financially self-sustaining via levies on the sector enterprises.
Greater competition would lead to improved and expanded services, thereby stimulating economic growth
and generating additional govermnent revenues from operator licenses and a broadened tax base. The
power sector modernization program will have a substantial positive impact on government finances (see
Annex 4).
Telecommunications. The project would increase the availability of telephone lines and access to internet
and other communications services both in urban and in rural areas. The introduction of competition and
more efficient regulation would help reduce the cost of services and improve the quality and scope of
services. Businesses, in particular, which increasingly depend on telecommunications, would benefit from
lower fees for interconnection and international communications and greater variety of value-added
services. SUPTEL's enhanced capacity to manage the radio spectrum would ensure the availability of
frequencies, reduce radio interference, make private investment in wireless technologies more attractive,
and improve the quantity and quality of services.
- 16 -



Micro and Small Business. The project's ICT-based business development centers would benefit MSBs
located in areas that have a high concentration of low-income and indigenous MSBs. The centers would be
located mainly in smaller towns and rural areas in Cuenca, Ambato, Los Rios, Otavalo, Bafios, Santa
Elena, Tena and Esmeraldas, which have high concentrations of microbusinesses producing artisan goods,
textiles, grains and tourism services. The Micronet centers' hub will be located either in Quito or in
Guayaquil. The centers will benefit MSBs located in the host towns, as well as MSBs located in the
surrounding rural areas. While benefits would vary by business sector, MSBs would generally be expected
to benefit from the Project by developing more direct business connectivity with higher income markets in
the form of acquiring market research and more far-reaching market promotion of their goods and services.
Transaction and product costs would be reduced through use of electronic (mainly) business-to-business
trading and logistics. The combined use of microbusiness software and coaching for business planning,
production and financial management would help to improve business practices and competitiveness,
leading progressively to growth in client bases, sales and profitability.
Electricity.   Electricity consumers would benefit from: (i) more efficient, higher-quality, and
environmentally sustainable service; and (ii) extension of supplies to unserviced rural areas. The risk of
future power shortages would be reduced. The project will develop an overall implementation strategy for
decentralized rural electrification, and contribute directly to improved living conditions in rural remote
areas, through the installation of PV systems for some 2,000 households and 350 public service
installations such as schools and health clinics. Direct CO emission reductions from this component would
total at least 25,000 tons over the project's life.
Energy Efficiency. This program will result in significant reductions in electricity end-use and associated
CO2 emissions (see details in Annex 4a). This will start progressively through the project's demonstration
activities, and expand substantially through project replication in the residential, commercial and industrial
sectors. Improving energy use will also help the commercial and industrial sectors in reducing their costs
of production and becoming more competitive. Improved end-use of electricity by customers in all sectors
will help compensate for electricity tariff increases up to economic costs, that will be effected in parallel to
electricity sector privatization.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation responsibilities. CONAM's Public Enterprise Reform Unit (UEP) will coordinate and
orient project implementation and will handle procurement and disbursements, in order to ensure efficient
management of this multi-sectoral project. CONAM's capacity to manage infrastructure reform projects
has been demonstrated by its success in advancing reforms since 1994. CONAM performed well in the
implementation of PERTAL and the execution of PPF-financed preparatory activities. CONAM is charged
with the overall design and oversight of reform and modemization of the telecommunications and power
sectors, including privatization of the power sector (with IDB support), opening of the telecommunications
sector to competition and promoting private participation in Government-owned telecommunications
companies. CONAM will design and implement a communication and consultation strategy regarding
power and telecommunications sectors reforms and will coordinate similar activities within regulatory and
policy agencies in these sectors.
Project components that aim to strengthen the regulatory framework in the power and telecommunications
sectors will be implemented by the sector regulatory and supervisory agencies -- SUPTEL for
telecommunications, CONELEC for electricity. The Environment Management Unit, to be established
within CONELEC, will be responsible for the strengthening of environmental and social management in the
- 17-



electricity sector, in close coordination with the Ministry of Environment. CENACE will implement the
component to strengthen the administration and monitoring of the wholesale market in the power sector.
CONATEL will be responsible for the implementation of the rural telecommunications component,
including design and conduction of bidding to select private operators, as well as the administration of
FODETEL, subsidy allocation and quality of service supervision. MEM-DEREE will be responsible for
the implementation of the energy efficiency and decentralized rural electrification components, in close
collaboration with CONELEC and in consultation with the private sector and potential beneficiaries.
MEM-DEREE and CONATEL will collaborate to identify and implement options for joint delivery of rural
telephony and electrification services. The ICT-based project pilots for MSBs will be prepared and
supervised by a steering committee lead by MICIP, and composed of representatives of CONAM, private
businesses, community organizations, the ICT technical community and World Bank experts. MICIP, in
close collaboration with CONAM, will: (i) manage the design and implementation of the pilot projects; (ii)
manage the review of relevant public policies; (iii) ensure electricity/telecom/microbusiness coordination
for the ICT component; and (iv) define financing policies to support the project.
The detailed arrangements for project implementation and monitoring are presented in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP), that was prepared by CONAM and reviewed and approved by the Bank during
negotiations.  The PIP also includes indicators to monitor the performance of the sectors, project
implementation and the agencies participating in the project, as well as the disbursements schedule and the
procurement plan.
Project Preparation. The Bank has extended a US$2.0 million Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to the
Government to finance project preparation, especially the development of regulations in the two sectors,
tariff studies and UEP consultants. The GEF has granted US$0.35 million from its Project Development
Fund (PDF B) to finance the preparation of the energy efficiency and rural electrification components. The
Government has obtained a US$0.7 million Japanese Grant (PHRD) for the preparation of the ICT
component and the elaboration of a communication and consultation strategy. The three facilities are being
implemented satisfactorily by CONAM.
Financial Management, Disbursements and Project Accounts. CONAM's UEP will be responsible for
central handling of project accounts and information, budgeting, preparation of financial reports, contracts
supervision, and establishment and operation of internal controls. Two Special Accounts will be established
for the project at the Central Bank or in a commercial bank, in accordance with Bank policies and
procedures, one account for the IBRD Loan and the other for the GEF grant. Disbursements from the
Loan and the GEF Grant would initially be made under the traditional system (reimbursements with full
documentation and against Statements of Expenditures (SOE), and direct payments) and would be
considered for conversion to the new disbursement system based on Project Management Reports (PMRs)
after the Financial Management System is operating satisfactory. UEP will then prepare and submit to the
Bank quarterly PMRs which enable the linking of expenditures to the Project's financial, physical, and
procurement activities and their simultaneous monitoring, while also serving as support for applications for
disbursements from the Loan account. The basis and format of these reports would be agreed with the
Bank and would be in accordance with the Bank's financial management manual and LACI procedures.
UEP applies an integrated financial management system, SIGEF, to account for project expenditures and to
monitor payments. As this system is limited to purposes of accounting and tracking expenditures, UEP
agreed to establish, as part of SIGEF, a sub-system to monitor the financial and physical activities of the
Project including planning, intemal controls, contract monitoring, and financial reporting and controls. The
chart of accounts for the Project has been structured accordingly, thus ensuring that project expenditures
will be accounted by appropriate components and categories. The project accounting and financial system
- 18 -



would gather processes and accounting data so as to produce accurate information. To ensure reliable
information, the accounting and financial systems would be linked with other project monitoring systems.
Audits. Annual standard audits of Project and CONAM financial statements will be prepared in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and be furnished to the Bank not later than six
months after the closing of the Project's financial year (December 31). CONAM has selected an
independent and qualified local firm for the audit, in agreement with the Bank. CONAM's financial
administrator will work with this firm to carry out interim audits throughout the year, in order to prepare
the annual audits within the specified timeframe.
Procurement. UEP will follow the Bank guidelines for the procurement of goods and recruitment of
consultants, and will use standard bidding documents for all IBRD-financed procurement. Procurement
arrangements and thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are presented in Annex 6. The
Project will follow the Procurement Plan (that forms part of the PIP), which will be updated semi-annually
and submitted to the Bank for approval. A procurement supervision mission will take place at least once a
year, including ex-post reviews.
Reporting. UEP will submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports, as well as a more comprehensive
annual report (by December 31 of each year). The Borrower shall review the annual report with the Bank,
not later than one month after reception. UEP will conduct a mid-term review on or about December 31,
2003, to evaluate implementation progress against set objectives, and will furnish to the Bank at the closing
a plan for the future operation of the Project. It will prepare a project Implementation Completion Report,
to be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the closing.
Operations Manual. Project management functions and responsibilities will be governed by the
Operations Manual, which covers, inter alia, project procedures, financial guidelines, staffing and staff
responsibilities, contract supervision, flow of funds, special accounts, budgeting, auditing and reporting, as
well as procurement and disbursement procedures. During negotiations, CONAM finalized the Operations
Manual to the Bank's satisfaction.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Separate Projects. The Bank initially considered two separate follow-up TA projects to PERTAL for
electricity and telecommunications, respectively, so that each operation could focus on a particular sector
reform agenda, allowing support for reforms in one sector to not be delayed by problems in the other.
However, the Government requested that the Bank merge the assistance to these sectors into a single
operation, due to the synergy of approaches to similar issues in the two sectors, and the efficiency of
project preparation and implementation by both the Bank and CONAM (which is handling reforms in both
sectors, and whose UEP would be in charge of Project implementation).
Electricity Privatization. The Bank and the Government considered having the Project assist privatization
in the electricity sector. However, because of the ready availability of funds from IDB's Private Provision
of Infrastructure Loan and Govemment's desire to accelerate electricity privatization, the Governnent
decided to use IDB funding for this purpose. The alternative of linking the power sector component of the
Project to progress on and ultimate success of power sector privatization was not retained because the
strengthening CONELEC, support to the wholesale market administration, promotion of energy efficiency
- 19 -



and extension of decentralized electrification are necessary and justified whether the power sector is
privatized totally, in part, or not at all. CONELEC's efficient regulation is required whether it applies to
private or Government-owned companies. While proper functioning of the power wholesale market will
require incentives that are usually associated with private ownership, the number of private generation
companies in the wholesale market is expected to increase quickly from existing IPPs, even if
Government-owned generation companies are not privatized.
Telecommunications privatization. After the GOE suspended efforts to privatize ANDINATEL and
PACIFICTEL, in view of political opposition, uncertain outcome and unrealistic expectations about sale
price, support from the Bank was requested for the tendering of new licences for mobile and fixed
telephony as well as for the preparation of interconnection regulations. However, because of insufficient
availability of PPF funds and the Bank's perception of risk entailed in the participation of ANDINATEL
and PACIFICTEL in the tendering of new licences, CONAM desisted from seeking such support. The
tendering of licences will be financed by the GOE with its own resources and the preparation of
interconnection regulations will be financed by the IDB.
Hydrocarbons. At one poirt, it was planned to include in the Project supporting the reform and enhanced
private participation in the hydrocarbon sector, which forms part of CONAM's mandate. However, the
complex economic, social, environmental and political issues associated with that sector reform would have
entailed the risk of serious delays in preparing the relevant project components and in obtaining Loan
approval, and the Hydrocarbons component was therefore dropped from this project.
GEF Components. The Bank and the Government also decided to include components aimed at removing
barriers to expanding rural electrification and to enhancing the efficiency of electricity use. These form
part of the Government's sector objectives, and are consistent with GEF global objectives to which the
Government has subscribed. Without Bank and GEF support, the Government would not be able to
implement such programs in the short-term and would most likely wait until the wider sector reforms were
consolidated.
ICT-based business centers. This component is integral to the Project, providing and receiving support in
relation to the Project's policy and institutional measures in the telecommunications sector and its
expansion of rural electricity and telecommunications services by helping to generate incremental income in
low-income areas which is needed to expand markets for such infrastructure services. ICT-based business
development services, while still experimental for MSBs, have demonstrated their importance to larger
firms as tools for increasing competitiveness and reaching new  markets.  The ongoing Ecuador
International Trade and Integration Project was considered as a vehicle for this component, but does not
qualify under the project description, orientation (which is exclusively focused on the export market), or
implementation schedule (the Project is scheduled to close in June 2002).
Regulatory Structure. Consideration was given to supporting the creation of a unified regulatory agency
for telecommunications and electricity, so as to gain from synergies and use scarce expertise more
efficiently. However, this would have necessitated the amendment of several laws and regulations, as well
as the dissolution of existing regulatory and enforcement agencies in both sectors. While there are common
elements in price regulation and retail provision of telecommunications and electricity, issues of technical
regulation are quite distinct. Therefore, it was decided to support the Government's approach by
strengthening the existing agencies in both sectors, with focus on increasing their autonomy and efficiency.
- 20 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
a. Enactment of a new             Ecuador - SAL (approved May       S             S
Telecommunications Law,           2000; first tranche disbursed)
establishment of an autonomous
regulatory agency (conditionality).
b. Adoption of efficient tariffs for
telecommunications and electricity
(conditionality).
Technical assistance to reform    Ecuador - PERTAL (closed          S             S
telecommunications and electricity.    December 1999)
Privatization of electricity distribution  Ecuador - SAL (closed October  U       S
companies (conditionality).       1997)
Support to exporting enterprises.  International Trade and          S             S
Integration Project
Enhancement of energy efficiency.  - Brazil - Energy Efficiency     S             S
- Jamaica - Demand Side
Management
- Mexico - High Efficiency
Lighting
- China - Energy Conservation
Promotion of decentralized rural  -Argentina - PERMER               S             S
electrification.
-Bolivia - ESMAP Country
Program II
Other development agencies
Financing of investment bank and other Ecuador - Private Provision of
advisors to privatize electricity sector  Infrastructure TA Loan, IDB
enterprises .                     (on-going)
Enhancement of energy efficiency.  European Union and USAID
financed projects in Ecuador
Removing barriers to use of windpower UNDP/GEF project in Ecuador
and solar generation for the Galapagos (under implementation).
islands.
Privatization of telecommunications    Ecuador SAL, IDB
(conditionality). I.___
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 21 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from similar projects in Ecuador (particularly the PERTAL project, as reflected in the ICR
dated May 10, 2000) and LAC at large are reflected in the project design. These lessons can be
summarized as follows:
Power and Telecommunications Sector reform
*   A clear, predictable, and modem legal/regulatory/institutional framework, with autonomous regulatory
agencies, arms-length regulation ensuring a level-playing field, liberalized markets with open access,
and anti-trust provisions are needed to attract private investment in infrastructure;
*   Autonomous, technically competent, and self-financed regulatory and enforcement entities are needed
to grant new licenses, resolve disputes among operators, and protect the public interest;
*   Newly-created regulatory entities are frequently overwhelmed but have little expertise to draw upon.
On-site consultant support and operational advice during the initial phase is invaluable;
*   A tariff system based on long-run marginal cost needs to be established at the start of the reform
process. Subsidies to low-income/low-volume consumers should be well-targeted;
*   Appropriate environmental management requires not only the adoption of a coherent set of regulations,
but also specific expertise within the regulatory agencies and a strong collaboration with other
environmental authorities and with the firms operating in the various activities of the sector;
*   Consultations with stakeholders are essential for the success of reforms. These consultations should
start at the design stage of the program so as to integrate the stakeholders concerns into the reform
policies. The Government should proactively explain its program to specific stakeholders and the
public at large, by means of a professionally designed public information campaign; and
*   The reformed legal/regulatory/institutional framework needs to be constantly monitored and adjusted.
Private Sector Participation
a   Private investment is sensitive to country risk and world economic outlook and events, and also
depends on regional corporate strategies;
*   A well defined, communicated and implemented program of reforms, with broad stakeholder support,
needs to precede private sector participation;
*   Unbundling of the state-owned monopoly needs to be completed prior to offering the enterprises for
sale;
*   Private sector participation, as the most visible reform action, requires top-level political support from
the executive and legislative branches, a sound institutional and legal basis, as well as a centralized and
professional approach; and
*   The privatization agency needs operational flexibility to make expeditious decisions, while maintaining
a close coordination with other agencies.
Rural infrastructure
* Infrastructure investments in rural areas can yield high economic and social returns, but the financial
returns may be too low to attract private firms. Therefore, these schemes often require subsidization
and other government financing, which must be carefully analyzed and planned;
*   "Universal access" funds have been successful in industrialized and developing countries. A
least-subsidy approach has proven effective, providing for a one-time subsidy for capital, rather than
for recurrent costs (In Chile, low, competitively distributed subsidies provided considerable leverage to
accelerate rural telecommunications development.);
*   Complementary sector reforms largely determine the success of rural infrastructure programs. Major
risk factors include policy variables (especially interconnection rules and tariffs), in addition to
- 22 -



financial and technical aspects;
* Local priorities should guide investments, and local participation in project design and implementation
should be strongly encouraged. Market studies should be undertaken before deciding on a course of
action. Flexibility and adaptability need to be designed into projects;
* There is no one best institutional or implementation approach, but strong motivation is essential on the
part of the implementing entity, and private participation is key to sustainability; and
* Joint planning and/or implementation of rural infrastructure projects in several sectors makes practical
and economic sense.
Energy efficiency
*   Pricing and regulatory reforms are necessary but not sufficient to maximize and capture energy
efficiency potential; key market barriers must also be addressed in a comprehensive and sustainable
way, including information and financing mechanisms;
* The expansion of energy efficiency activities entails a learning process, requiring that firms receive the
correct market and regulatory signals over an extended period of time. Because of this, and the need to
build collaboration and consensus, a phased approach is desirable;
*   A longer-term, appropriately-funded dissemination and replication strategy is necessary to avoid
post-project reduction in efficiency improvement momentum; and
* Energy conservation investments provide good to excellent economic rate-of-returns where energy
prices reflect economic costs.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
Successive governments have maintained the commitment to modernize and privatize the power and
telecommunications sectors, despite setbacks resulting from frequent changes in government and in
principal policy makers, and achieved considerable progress under difficult circumstances. With support
of the Bank's PERTAL, new laws and attendant regulations and guidelines have established the basis for
restructuring the two sectors and preparing them for privatization. However, these efforts need to be
completed, especially the enhancement of private participation and further improvements to the sector
frameworks. The Government also has shown concern about global climate change, and has initiated
modest programs to promote energy efficiency. The Government's commitment to the Project objectives is
demonstrated specifically by:
Telecommunications
* The 1992 Law, which separated operations (EMETEL) from regulatory and control functions
(SUPTEL);
*   The 1995 Law, which created new regulatory and enforcement entities (CONATEL and SENATEL)
and allowed privatization of EMETEL, which was segmented into ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL;
*   Official launching of the privatization process of EMETEL in 1996;
* Creation of a sectoral modernization and privatization unit within CONAM (November 1997), and
attempts to sell 35 percent of shares in ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL (April 1998);
*   Tariff rebalancing in December 1996, July 1997, November 1997, September 1999 and November
2000;
*   The March 2000 Economic Transformation Law which eliminated exclusivity and increased the share
of ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL that can be held by strategic investors from 35 percent to 51
percent; and
*   The renegotiation of ANDINATEL's and PACIFICTEL's concession contracts in April 2001, which
resulted in the elimination of the exclusivity clauses.
- 23 -



ICT-based business development services
*   Policy agenda adopted by MICIP to upgrade policy environment for ICT through passage of an
e-commerce framework law, greater facilitation of ICT goods and services under the trade regime,
stronger intellectual property protection for ICT development, and data privacy and consumer
protection for e-transactions;
*   MICIP leadership commitment to extend the reach of information technologies services to low-income
regions of Ecuador and MSBs, and explicitly through proposed ICT-based business development
centers;
*   Ongoing decentralized cluster competitiveness programs in partnership with MSBs across Ecuador in
the areas of textiles and clothing, fishing, ceramics and tourism;
*   Commitments of core private sector partners to co-sponsor development of Project's MSBs
development centers, led by CORPEI, Ecuador's main export association, and by Microsoft with local
IT industry partners; and
* Cooperation agreements with Cdmaras Industriales, Cdmara de Industrias de Cuenca and
ASOEXPEBLA in Manta to provide local business content, training support, and promotion to
ICT-based business development services in their respective areas.
Electricity
*   Establishment during 1996-98 of a modem  legal/regulatory/institutional framework based on
arms-length regulation, competition, and private participation;
*   Creation of CONELEC for regulation and enforcement and CENACE for least-cost dispatch and
administration of the liberalized wholesale market;
*   Segmentation of INECEL into separate companies for generation, transmission, and distribution, in
March 1999;
*   Major tariff increases during November 1998 - October 1999 and since June 2000, raising average
electricity prices to over 50 percent of economic costs and reducing cross-subsidies, with an adjustment
program to reach economic costs by December 2002;
*   Elaboration of a Reglamento Ambiental para Actividades Elctricas, which complements the
environmental legislation and mandates the creation of a separate Unit within CONELEC in charge of
overseeing the environmental and social impacts in the sector;
* Elimination of restrictions to private participation in electricity enterprises, through the March and July
2000 Economic Transformation Laws; and
*   IDB-assisted privatization, starting with distribution companies in 2001, to be followed by similar
offerings of shares in generation companies and the transmission company.
Energy Efficiency and Decentralized Rural Electrification
*   Creation within MEM of a Directorate charged with fostering energy conservation and removing
barriers to the use of renewable energy, especially in rural areas;
* Through the MEM, the Government beginning to address some of the electricity needs of rural public
services such as health clinics, schools and community centers through installation of PV systems;
*   Carrying out of energy efficiency programs with European Union and USAID support;
*  MEM's preparation of a public information oriented energy efficiency initiative, for which it is seeking
financial support (the GEF Alternative provides partial support for this); and
*   Endorsement of the proposed Project by the GEF focal point in Ecuador (Ministry of Environment),
through a letter dated November 10, 2000.
- 24 -



5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The Bank's global and regional (e.g., Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Panama, Peru)
experience in reforming the legal/regulatory/institutional frameworks of the infrastructure sectors, and
supporting privatization, would provide critical support to the Government's program. In particular, the
Bank would transmit its experience in addressing social and environmental concerns, and promoting public
dialogue and understanding of reforms, to design programs that are moie responsive to the concerns of key
stakeholders, and thus more politically viable. The Bank's ability to promote change in key regulatory
areas such as telecommunications interconnection and tariffs would enhance the results of increased
competition in the sectors. In addition, the Bank would provide advice on second-generation reform issues,
especially anti-trust and refinement of existing regulations and tariff-setting methodologies. The Bank and
GEF would also transmit their international experience in removing barriers and developing relevant
programs for end-use efficiency of electricity and rural electrification.
The project's ICT-based business development centers build on the ongoing work to support small and
micro firms' international competitiveness that is taking place under the Bank financed Intemational Trade
and Integration project in Ecuador. It also benefits from the Bank's growing cross-country involveme.nt
and collaboration with the IT industry to develop and support of MSBs business development service
products and delivery systems which shape ICT hardware and software infrastructure to local needs, as
well as help foster the development of related local content and skills training to make it pay off. The Bank
also brings to the project mobilization of international technical expertise in e-assessments, e-commerce
policy analysis and e-govemment.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
e Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
More effective regulation, institutional modernization, and increased private participation will enhance the
efficiency of telecommunications and electricity services, resulting in higher output and more productive
employment economy-wide, and increased government revenues from sector enterprises.  However,
sustained efforts are needed to achieve these results and to avoid backtracking of reforms. The economic
impact of the new frameworks -- in terms of efficiency improvements, increased investment, expansion of
service, and higher fiscal revenues -- can be more fully evaluated only after several years.
Telecommunications
Leveraging rural investments with broader sectoral reform will yield significant returns over the longer
term. The subsidies which may be required in support of rural programs are likely to be small relative to
the benefits. Increased access to international telecommunications will reduce transaction costs for
international trade and open up new export opportunities. Advanced information technology also has
wide-ranging applications for improving health and education services, and will become more affordable
over time.
Electricity
Ensuring adequate electricity supplies will protect economic recovery and long term growth. Pilots in rural
areas that may bundle energy and telecommunications services will help reduce costs while demonstrating
how to use infrastructure to improve health, education and business opportunities. The impact of tariff
- 25 -



adjustments on (i) the cost of living and production costs in the economy, and (ii) future electricity demand
and capacity requirements, is being evaluated, with support from PPF 360-EC. The impact of the
development of a competitive wholesale market also needs careful monitoring.
GEF Energy Efficiency and Decentralized Rural Electrification
A cost-benefit analysis has been carried out for components that would receive GEF cofinancing. For the
energy efficiency component, full implementation is estimated to result in Net Present Values (NPV)
ranging from $42.8 million in the base case to $186.7 million in the high case. For rural electrification, as
no reliable market information is yet available, we have instead determined the required payment,
approximately US$0.28/kWh, which is necessary for full life-cycle cost recovery (excluding the GEF
capital contribution). The tables below summarize the results of the GEF incremental cost analysis (see
Annex 4a for details):
GEF Incremental Costs and Benefits Matrix - Energy Efficiency
Baseline      Alternative                     Increment
Global                             Barriers reduced or eliminated.  Reduced or eliminated barriers
Environmental                      Reduced CO2 emissions compared   Reduced CO2 emissions
Benefit                            with baseline.                 (2,154,260 tons by 10th year).
Creation of sustainable EE     Additional viable EE measures
programs in private sector (end  which can be replicated in
users), distribution utilities and  region
ESCOs.
Costs               US$250,000    US$7,186,000                    US$6,936,000
GOE financing       US$250,000                                    US$210,000
WB financing                                                       US$508,000
GEF fmancing                                                      US$1,226,000
Private fmancing                                                  US$4,992,000
GEF Incremental Costs and Benefits Matrix - Rural Electrification with RET
Baseline      Alternative                      Increment
Global                             Barriers reduced or eliminated.  Reduced or eliminated barriers
Environmental                      Reduced CO2 emissions compared    Reduced CO emissions
Benefit                            with forecast.                  (192,400 tons) cumulatively at
Creation of sustainable RE with  project end
renewable energy
Costs              US$2,236,000   US$5,917,000                     US$3,681,000
GOE financing      US$715,000                                      US$300,000
WB financing                                                       US$1,768,000
GEF fmancing                                                       US$1,613,000
- 26 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The appropriate financial conditions to attract strategic investors, especially the base prices for
privatization of power sector companies and for the tendering of spectrum licenses, need to be proposed by
the financial advisors retained by CONAM. In addition, the following sector-specific issues need to be
addressed:
Telecommunications
Tariff rebalancing: The tariff policy needs to give predictability to future unit revenues. To better reflect
actual costs and thereby encourage competition in local services, CONATEL increased tariffs for monthly
line rentals and local calls in September 1999. Further, based on a study financed under this Project,
CONATEL approved Resolution 456 of October 5, 2000 to finish tariff rebalancing through a series of
semi-annual adjustments in local and long distance tariffs to conclude in December 2002.
Electricity
Assets and liabilities of the sector enterprises need to be clearly defined prior to offering these enterprises to
private investors. This task is being undertaken by the privatization advisors.
The impact of the program of gradual tariff increases -- in terms of strengthening sector finances and
reducing the US$300 million subsidies to consumption -- need to be evaluated in detail.
Fiscal Impact:
The reform program in the power and telecommunications sectors would have a positive impact on central
govemment finances, due to: (i) incremental tax revenues from the privatized enterprises and additional
private investors; and (ii) a reduction in subsidies in line with the move toward cost-covering tariffs.
Administrative expenditures of the regulatory, enforcement, and market management entities would be
covered by charges on sector revenues. There would also be a large one-time revenue boost from the
privatization sales themselves.
3. Technical:
Private investors will tend to bring leading technologies and modem management and operational
techniques. The Project will finance the acquisition of hardware and software, including monitoring and
measuring equipment, for CONELEC and CENACE; experienced technical consultants have identified the
required items. SUPTEL will also receive equipment to help monitor the telecommunications sector;
consultants will be hired to define the technical specifications for this equipment during early project
implementation. For the rural telecommunications and energy components, market demand studies will
provide the information needed to determine the location and technology parameters for bidders. Bidding
documents will contain technical specifications as well as coverage and service quality indicators, although
some flexibility will be left to the winning bidders. The business centers will require modest amounts of
computer hardware; software design will be based upon feedback from focus groups and discussions with
MSB, suppliers, buyers and software design specialists. Cost estimates for consulting services, studies,
training, and other technical assistance activities are based on experience in similar projects. Allowances
for physical and price contingencies are in line with those generally applied in Ecuador.
4. Institutional:
CONAM and the participating agencies have the necessary capacity and experience to carry out the
project, including project monitoring and evaluation. CONAM's UEP is fully staffed, including a project
- 27 -



coordinator, several sector consultants, a financial director, disbursement staff and a procurement
specialist. Nevertheless, the project will strengthen CONAM's procurement and disbursement capacity.
While the regulatory agencies are functioning relatively well, their longer-term autonomy, competence, and
financial viability need to be ensured through appropriate policies, proper application of laws and
regulations, and clear procedures. To strengthen the public sector's new role in telecommunications and
electricity, the managerial and professional staff of the relevant agencies will receive formal training as well
as visit other countries undertaking similar reforms and initiatives. The Project will test and evaluate
innovative organizational and financing mechanisms for energy efficiency and rural electrification schemes.
4.1 Executing agencies:
CONAM is the Project's executing agency; in charge of procurement and disbursement, project
coordination and oversight of sector reform and modernization. It will work closely with the participating
sectoral agencies that have direct implementation responsibilities for their respective components.
4.2 Project management:
CONAM's UEP will be responsible for project coordination and financial administration (procurement;
disbursement; accounting). UEP will have authority to decide on technical matters related to the Project,
while CONAM's management will limit itself to policy decisions. UEP is supported by a team of
competent specialists in telecommunications, electricity, privatization, tariffs, public information, project
economic analysis, and financial administration, who have wide-ranging experience in their respective
fields as well as in liaising with other government entities and international financial institutions. The
project management component will provide resources for key advisors to UEP and for technical assistance
to the sector agencies. An important aspect of project supervision will be to ensure that adequate
counterpart funds are made available and that competent project management continues.
In telecommunications, the Project will support the strengthening of SUPTEL's supervisory functions and
will assist CONATEL in the design and implementation of pilot project for the extension of
telecommunications services to rural and marginal urban areas. Suitable conditions for CONATEL's
preparation and administration of the rural telecommunications projects will be established early in the
Project. In the electricity sector, CONELEC's and CENACE's respective responsibilities and functions
have been adequately established as part of the sector framework, but the agencies need to improve
coordination in some areas (e.g., preparation of the indicative power sector development program).
Coordination between MEM and CONELEC with regard to rural electrification, environmental
management and energy efficiency will be developed while designing the 10-year National Electrification
Strategy supported by the Project. The power and telecommunications sector agencies also need to
improve consultation arrangements with their sector enterprises and stakeholders. These requirements will
be addressed early in the Project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A preliminary review of procurement aspects was conducted in December 2000, regarding CONAM's
organization and staff, legal aspects, procurement procedures and environment. An action plan was agreed
with CONAM to address the gaps and deficiencies that were identified. A detailed procurement assessment
was finalized during the appraisal mission. During negotiations, the final Operations Manual with detailed
responsibilities and procedures for efficient coordination and collaboration between CONAM  and
participating agencies was submitted to and approved by the Bank, as well as the procurement plan for the
duration of project implementation, with a detailed plan for the first year. The main pending actions agreed
upon with CONAM include: (a) continue procurement training for CONAM's and other implementing
- 28 -



agencies' staff, in particular during the project launch workshop; (b) publish the Project's General
Procurement Notice, immediately after Loan approval; (c) open a section on the project in CONAM's web
page; (d) start the creation of a consultants and suppliers database for the Project; and (e) establish a
computerized system for the monitoring and filing of contracts in CONAM (condition of effectiveness).
CONATEL's procurement procedures for the recruitment of rural telecommunications private operators
were reviewed and agreed upon during the appraisal mission. Special provisions are included in the Loan
Agreement to address inconsistencies between national procurement laws and regulations and World Bank's
procurement guidelines.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A review of CONAM's procedures and organization for the project financial management was conducted in
October 2000 and updated during the appraisal mission. An action plan to address deficiencies was agreed
with CONAM and has been satisfactorily implemented. In particular, a system to monitor the financial and
physical activities of the project has been designed and an independent auditor has been selected.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
After market studies identify the geographic areas and technologies for rural telecommunications and
electricity projects, environmental experts would review the studies; if negative environmental impacts are
anticipated, an environmental assessment, following World Bank Guidelines, would be carried out. The
bidding documents that invite private operators to supply and operate such systems, and the subsequent
contracts, would require that the recommendations of the environmental assessment be applied.
Environmental guidelines will be incorporated into the design and operational manuals of FODETEL and
FERUM/CONELEC.
Sector reforms that promote private investments could lead indirectly to potentially adverse environmental
impacts. Environmental management requires specific environmental regulations, guidelines, and norms
covering investments, operations (including closure of operations), as well as strict monitoring and
enforcement of compliance. An environmental assessment of activities in the telecommunications and
electricity sector, was completed prior to appraisal. It reviewed the existing environmental legislation,
procedures and practices in Ecuador as well as the environmental impact studies that were completed for
16 of the 20 companies in the electricity sector. The assessment concluded that while the overall legal
framework is satisfactory and reflects a coherent environmental policy, implementation is lagging. It also
concluded that the rules for environmental impact assessment for enterprises operating in the electricity
sector provide sound general guidelines, but that these were inefficient due to the absence of specific
environmental regulations and needed to be complemented with more detailed guidelines to undertake ElAs
in all stages of the sector activities. The main factors explaining low levels of compliance are: (i) the lack of
specific environmental regulations and procedures to implement environmental laws, (ii) the weak
institutional capacity of the regulatory agencies (CONATEL and CONELEC); even though CONELEC
has the necessary expertise in this field it lacks a consistent approach to environmental issues, and (iii) the
absence of instruments and detailed guidelines to assess the environmental impact of projects and to
monitor compliance. Furthermore, community participation in the different stages of the EIA has been
scant due in part to the absence of a promotion campaign and the lack of established participation
mechanisms. Insufficient public information together with a lack of economic incentives and credible
enforcement mechanisms explain the limited interest to adopt more energy efficient practices among firms
and households.
- 29 -



The environmental assessment also identified the key policy actions needed to modernize and strengthen
relevant environmental/social regulations and guidelines and assist sector regulators to build up their
capacity to address environmental issues. These recommendations, detailed in Annex 11, constitute the
core of the environmental subcomponents of the Project. Specifically, to improve environmental
management of the power sector, the Project will include technical assistance to (i) prepare environmental
regulations for electricity operations, norms and guidelines for their applications, (ii) strengthen
institutional capacity to address environmental issues through the creation of an environmental unit within
CONELEC, training programs for CONAM, CONELEC and staff from the Ministry of Environment and
sector operators, and assistance to operators to improve environmental management within the firms; and
(iii) develop information and monitoring systems to facilitate the design and enforcement of environmental
policies.
In preparation for the privatization of the distribution companies, a preliminary environmental assessment
of the companies in the sector was completed in a study commissioned by CONAM and financed by the
IDB. However, the information gathered is insufficient to prepare an environmental baseline, especially for
the case of generation companies. To remedy this gap, during their first year of operation, private investors
will be expected to undertake formal environmental audits to assess the stock of environmental liabilities
accumulated prior to the privatization and discuss the results of the audits with the Government.
Environment liabilities as identified through these audits are expected to be financed by the Government,
except if otherwise specified in the privatization bidding documents. Government funds would have to be
allocated for that purpose, as privatization proceeds can only be used by the Solidarity Fund for social
investments.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: May 21, 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Project preparation missions have met in the field with representatives of indigenous populations, and the
principal environmental NGOs (local and international), to explain the project objectives and plans.
CONELEC and CONATEL are governed by norms that define procedures for public audiences and include
the questionnaires to survey those who would be affected by new investments.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Bank will carry out formal communications and consultations with the stakeholders on environmental
issues related to the Project. During the project launch workshop, the dialogue with stakeholders will be
broadened, inviting their comments on the relevant aspects of project implementation and seeking ways to
involve them in project monitoring and evaluation.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The Project supports reforms and policy actions aimed at improving the delivery of electricity and
telecommunications services to the Ecuadorian population. These reforms include an increased private
- 30 -



participation in the sectors, the adoption of laws and regulations to protect the various stakeholders and
especially consumers, and the design and implementation of specific programs to extend these and other
related services to marginal urban and rural communities. While these reforms will bring benefits for al'
Ecuadorians through more efficient service delivery and broader national coverage, they may also have an
adverse impact on some vulnerable groups in the society. The Government is committed to prctecting these
groups and adopting the necessary measures to mitigate the adverse impacts of the reforms. The optimal
approaches to delivery of telecommunications and electricity services to rural populations, including the use
of subsidies, will be addressed in the market studies.  However, it must be noted that in the
telecommunications tariff rebalancing plan approved by CONATEL in November 2000, there is a category
with low telephone tariffs for consumers located in rural and marginal urban areas. While privatization in
the power sector may produce some short-term redundancies, experience shows that liberalizing the sectors
soon results in substantial net increases in employment. In the telecommunications sector, the opening to
new operators will create additional employment.
Both sectors have legal requirements for consultation with consumers. For telecommunications, these
involve public hearings, announced in the press, before and after the authorization of concessions.
CONATEL also holds other open meetings at which it discusses technical, administrative and tariff
aspects, and its web page (www.conatel.gov.ec) provides information on sector laws, regulations and
resolutions (However, these public meetings have generally had a greater attendance from Government
rather than from civil society). In the electricity sector, since 1998 the regulations have been the subject of
public hearings prior to issuance. CONELEC also maintains a complaints book, and its annual report
includes users' assessments of service quality. Since 2000, the environmental regulations also incorporate
public hearings with consumers
In Ecuador, most of the indigenous population is located in rural areas. Indigenous communities will
benefit from the expansion of services and the positive environmental impact of using renewable sources of
energy, but the program in rural areas may alsz have some adverse social impacts on these communities.
Under the leadership of the Bank's civil society specialist in Quito, the Project team has prepared during
appraisal an Indigenous People Development Framework to identify the indigenous communities affected
by the program, determine the social impact of the program in these communities and examine the
safeguards to prevent or mitigate that impact.  The Project team will consult with the indigenous
beneficiaries, inform them on the progress realized in the design and implementation of the project and of
the accompanying social safeguards. The consultations will be consistent with the Operational Guideline
4.20 of the Bank and the guidelines included in the Ecuadorian legislation, which recognizes indigenous'
rights to keep their culture and traditions, and their rights to prior consultations.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders for Project-financed investments include: (a) inhabitants of rural areas to receive
telephony and electricity services; (b) MSBs to receive training and access to ICT services in the pilot
business centers; (c) large consumers of energy, who might be targeted by the energy efficiency component;
(d) private investors; and (e) civil society organizations, including NGOs. CONAM has briefed principal
stakeholders on Project objectives and scope.
Regarding the privatization of the power sector conducted by CONAM with IDB financial support, key
stakeholders include: (a) management of State enterprises to be privatized; (b) labor unions; (c) potential
investors; (d) civil society organizations and the public at large; and (e) local governments. These
stakeholders were consulted during the design of the privatization strategy. Interviews through TV, radio
and press were given to inform the public on the objectives of the Government's strategy for the sector. In
2001, CONAM has organized several meetings with the workers in the power sector, tc explain in detail:
- 31 -



(i) the Government privatization strategy; (ii) the options for workers to acquire shares into the companies
and the financing schemes that will facilitate their participation; and (iii) the bidding process and results of
the Road show and prequalification phase.
The Project will finance the design and implementation of a communication and consultation strategy for
CONAM. The dialogue with stakeholders will be continued during the Project launch workshop and Project
implementation.
Market studies for the design of the rural electrification and telecommunications components of the project
will involve substantial consultation with the relevant rural communities. Additional consultations will take
place under the guidance of the Bank's civil society specialist in Quito. Consultations with indigenous
communities will build up on the wide participatory process undertaken at the national level under the
Bank-financed ongoing Prodepine project. Interviews, focus groups and workshops will take into account
the specific cultural and linguistic characteristics of these groups, using methodologies that will ensure their
inclusion into the process. The design of a strategy to ensure access to information to the different
stakeholders will also take into account the specificity of the indigenous context.
The detailed design of the ICT-based business development centers is being canied out with the
participation of potential microbusinesses in several ways. The cluster development programs under the
Ecuador International Trade and Integration Project have already tapped local business and community
involvement in producing competitiveness analyses which identify constraints to growth and strategic plans
to provide direction for new sector development. Focus groups are being conducted in each of the five
areas sited for the centers to get first-hand assessments of business process problems which can be
addressed by ICT-based solutions. Local business associations, such as the Camara de Industrias de
Cuenca and the ASOEXPEBLA in Manta will be working to organize and help prepare local content and
business skills training programs to be utilized by the centers.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
While some consultations have already taken place, World Bank experts and consultants on participation
and public information techniques will advise CONAM and other parties on appropriate mechanisms,
target groups, content and timing of greater consultations. This will form part of a strategy for the
implementation of the public information and consultation component of the project, to be finalized prior to
Loan effectiveness.
Participatory methods to be used during the consultation are intended to strengthen inclusion and facilitate
the achievement of the various stakeholders' objectives. These consultations were initiated during the
preparation of the project and will continue during its implementation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
CONAM will be responsible for the implementation of the consultation and participation component, and
the addressing of social impacts of the project. CONAM will establish a relationship and exchanges with
the World Bank Prodepine project to analyze accumulated experiences on investment infrastructures. It
will also benefit from the Prodepine project by learning from the participating methodologies already
applied in indigenous community planning and from the input that the latter project would provide
regarding the requirements for capacity building in these communities.
- 32 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A monitoring and evaluation component is included in the project. In the case of the rural
telecommunications and electricity component, the market study can serve as a baseline--to be compared
with the results of a second survey to be conducted at project completion. The project would contract
existing Ecuadorian institutions to monitor social development progress. Performance will be assessed
through evaluations that will present the opinions and perceptions of beneficiaries. These evaluations will
be performed during project implementation, for a period yet to be defined, and will provide useful
feedback to optimize the results of the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the proiect?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       O Yes *No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    * Yes O No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Project is expected to lead to increased activity by private telecommunications and electricity providers
throughout the country, which could have environmental and social impacts. However, the strengthened
legal/regulatory/institutional framework as a result of the Project would provide social and environmental
safeguards and adequate participation by stakeholders in decision making and mitigation of these impacts.
The Project would, in consultation with stakeholders: (i) finance the preparation of relevant regulations,
guidelines, and norms; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the regulators in the two sectors to address
environmental and social issues; (iii) ensure that appropriate dispositions are included in bidding and
concession documents to address assessment and mitigation of environmental and social impacts of future
projects in both sectors; and (iv) give high priority during project supervision to compliance with safeguard
policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project would strengthen the legal/regulatory/institutional framework and the regulatory agencies, and
enhance private participation in the telecommunications and electricity sectors. Results from these efforts
ought to be sustainable, provided the underlying policies are maintained and the regulatory institutions
retain the necessary autonomy and resources to adequately exercise their functions. Crucial in this respect
is that the regulatory agencies continue to be financed directly from sector revenues, rather than from the
general budget.
The Project's public information campaign should increase the appreciation of the benefits of reform.
Linking overall reform with the expansion of services to rural areas should also serve to build support for
- 33 -



the reform process, as would a better targeting of subsidies to low-income customers. The energy
efficiency component, by contributing to partially offsetting tariff increases, should also contribute to the
overall sustainability of reforms.
The energy efficiency component itself should be sustainable, especially once ESCOs are established and
consumers begin to appreciate the savings possible. Similarly, the rural electrification component should
develop the interest of private investors to install and maintain isolated systems. Furthermore, experience in
other countries indicates that once modem electricity is supplied to rural areas, if properly managed and
maintained, demand grows. A continuation of Government commitment to the process, combined with
adequate financing from FERUM, should ensure that the process is sustainable. The option of a dedicated
financial mechanism for decentralized rural electrification will be reviewed during project implementation
and the corresponding regulations and institutional framework will be developed or strengthened. Public
sector entities benefiting from decentralized energy systems will have to allocate sufficient funds for system
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) by private operators. These financial sustainability issues were
discussed with the Government and relevant entities during the project appraisal mission. The emergence of
local private equipment supply and maintenance companies, and the use of these new electricity and
telecommunications services in community centers, businesses, schools and health clinics, will be an
indication of sustainability.
In the case of energy efficiency and decentralized rural electrification, sustainability will also hinge on
replicability of demonstration projects in a scale sufficient to attract interest from private operators and
further improve financial viability of corresponding activities. Key factors to facilitate project replication
include the establishment or strengthening of appropriate policies, regulations and incentives, market
conditions, financing mechanisms and institutional capacity. These aspects were discussed with the
Government during the project appraisal mission.
An important goal of the ICT-based business development centers is to attain financial sustainability
through appropriate service pricing and maximum cost efficiency. In this regard, it would aim to achieve
overall financial break-even by year three of operations, an internal rate of return comparable to market
expectations by year five, and to meet tax obligations from its inception. At the same time, the component
represents a pilot initiative due to a number of particular risks, which revolve around the design innovations
anticipated in ICT-based products and delivery, the rate of acceptance of the microbusiness market, which
has very limited purchasing power and often lacks any tradition of using business development services,
and the need for strong cost efficiency of a decentralized system. While the Bank Loan would help buffer
these risks by covering the costs particularly of the transfer of technology and skills, client promotion,
technical assistance, quality assurance and evaluation, strict attention will be paid to fine-tuning products
and delivery systems according to microbusiness client reactions and to ensuring the coverage via users
revenues of the direct costs of product delivery as the fundamental means of promoting long-term
sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Continued instability of Ecuador's           H         Policy coordination between Government and
macroeconomic (especially fiscal) and                  International Finance Institutions to overcome
financial positions; policy reversals;                 fiscal and financial sector weaknesses;
delays in enacting the revised legal,                  Assistance through qualified consultants in: (i)
regulatory and institutional framework.                preparing Government initiatives; (ii)
communication and consultations with Congress
and principal stakeholders; or (iii) public
- 34 -



information campaign. IMF/Bank (SAL)
conditions regarding telecommunications and
power sectors. Promote reforms through
regulations to existing legislation.
Weakened commnitment of the Government     M         Support for preparation of necessary
to approve and implement regulations                 regulations, based on market surveys and
ensuring the financing of FODETEL for                appropriate participation and consultation of
rural telephony and FERUM for                        beneficiaries.
decentralized rural electrification.
Potential investors not interested in      S         Design transactions to make rural concessions
acquiring/providing electricity services in          and business centers attractive. Consult
rural areas and internet and business                extensively with potential investors and users to
service centers in peri-urban areas.                 determine interest.
S        Continuous dialogue with Government on need
Strengthening of sector regulatory and               for strong and autonomous agencies;
continuation of policy that finances regulatory
enforcement agencies not attained due to             agencies through fees imposed on sector firms.
lack of appropriate instruments and
qualified staff (especially at mid-levels)           Project to give management and staff
development at sector institutions high priority.
aend cien.                                           Agreement on institutional development plans
agencies.                                           for regulatory agencies.
Government commitment to tariff            M         Make continued tariff adjustments priority topic
adjustments weakens; electricity full                of project/sector/CAS dialogue and of public
economic cost proves to be politically              information campaign; provide support for
unattainable, thus impacting sector                  better targeting of subsidies.
financial viability.
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate quality of preparatory and      N         Bank's non-objections are needed for
other technical outputs.                             consultancies' TORs and acceptance of reports.
Insufficient capacity to implement project.  M       Project to support CONAM and sector
implementing agencies under the loan.
Adequate teams are already in place.
Lack of timely availability of counterpart  *  S     Project has agreed with the Government on a
funds to finance the project.                        disbursement schedule for both Loan and
counterpart funds to ensure timely financing of
the components. Corresponding allocations to
be made in national budget every year.
Inadequate coordination between            M         Clear allocation of responsibilities between
CONAM and irnplementing entities.                    CONAM and agencies, as spelled out in PIP
and as will be discussed during the project
launch workshop.
Communication and Consultation             M         Bank no objection to TORs and award of
- 35 -



component poorly executed or used for                  contracts; careful supervision and review of
purposes outside project scope.                        materials prior to diffusion.
Overall Risk Rating                          H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Telecommunications and Electricity
Type of Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
Risk                    Risk
Lack of political and social acceptance of  S; G; M   S            Consultations with stakeholders;
principles of the Government's sector reform                       public relations campaigns
programs and of the implementation strategies                      designed to stress benefits of
reform and privatization
measures and to explain impact
mitigation measures.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity),
0 (Other); Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N
(Negligible or Low Risk)
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i) MEF and CONAM have entered into a subsidiary agreement under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, to provide the transfer to CONAM of the proceeds of the Loan and the counterpart funds
required for the implementation of the project.
(ii) CONAM has furnished evidence of the completion of the procurement strengthening action plan,
including establishment of a computerized system to follow up on procurement and execution of contracts
to the satisfaction of the Bank.
(iii) CONELEC's Environment Management Unit has been created and the Decree for Environment
Regulation of Power Sector Activities has been enacted.
(iv) The strategy for the implementation of the Consultation and Communication component of the Project
has been finalized to the Bank's satisfaction.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Board Presentation
(i) Nomination of a representative to the Statutory Committee.
(ii) Endorsement of the GEF com.ponent of the Project by the GEF's CEO.
Covenants
(i) CONAM and the implementing agencies (CONATEL/FODETEL, SUPTEL, CONELEC, CENACE,
MICIP and MEM/DEREE) will enter into implementation arrangements setting forth the contribution of
these agencies to project implementation and the conditions for transfer of equipment financed under the
project to these agencies.
- 36-



H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D1 1. b) Not applicable.
LI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
* Documents mentioned under conditions of effectiveness.
* TORs for consulting services to be contracted during the first year of project implementation.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Philippe J. Durand                 Danny M. Leipziger                Isabel M. Guerrero
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 37 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ECUADOR: Power and Communications Sectors Modernization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC)
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives                Indicators            Monitoring & Evaluation          Criticat Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:                Sector/ country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
I. Restore macro-financial     1. 1. Evidence of wider access to, CONATEL, CONELEC and      Continued Government
stability and accelerate economic  and enhanced efficiency and  ODEPLAN statistics.          commitment to market-oriented
growth through, inter alia, an  quality of, telecommunications,                             reforms and to efficient private
enhanced private sector role.  electricity and business services  ITU and OLADE statistics.  sector participation.
with increased participation of
private providers.             SIISE information system for   Private investors willing to invest
social indicators             in the telecommunications and
Rural demand studies and      electricity sectors and in
surveys.                      ICT-supported business centers.
2. Setting the basis for poverty    2.1. Increased living standards
reduction and human            and broadened opportunities for
development.                   the poor in the communities
receiving, access to
telecommunications, electricity
and internet and business
services through the project.
GEF Operational Program:
3. Support sustainable         3.1. Improved environmental    Market and consumer surveys.   Appropriate incentive for private
development and productivity of  management through use of                                   sector participation.
the poor.                     renewable energy technologies
(RETs) in rural areas and                                     Consumers' sufficient
promotion of efficient end-use of                             affordability and willingness to
electricity,.                                                 pay for decentralized
electrification systems and energy
efficient equipment.
- 38 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives              Indicators            Monitoring & Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Project Development          Outcome I Impact              Project reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
The project would assist the  1. Legal, regulatory and
Government's efforts to deepen   institutional development
reforms in the
telecommunications and        1. . Improved effectiveness of the Project progress reports.  Continued Government
electricity sectors, by supporting: Superintendencia de                                  commitment to sector reforms
(i) the strengthening of regulatory Telecomunicaciones ( SUPTEL)  Independent assessment  and increased participation of
institutions to foster competition  to supervise the sector and  (consultant's report).  private firms in the sectors.
and increased private        undertake timely public
participation in the sectors, (ii)  consultations and dissemination  SUPTEL's and CONATEL's  CONATEL and SUPTEL
the extension of electricity,  of regulatory decisions.    reports and statistics.       committed to fulfill their
telecommunications and                                                                   mandate and abide by the rules
ICT-based business services to                                                           established in the new legal and
low income groups on a pilot                                                             regulatory framework.
basis, (iii) the implementation of
programs to promote efficient use 1.2. Improved effectiveness of   Project progress reports.   CONELEC committed to fulfill
of electricity, and (iv) the  CONELEC to regulate the power                              rules established in the new legal
development of appropriate   sector and undertake timely   Independent assessment        and regulatory framework.
public consultation and      public consultations and      (consultant's report).
information mechanisms in these dissemination of regulatory
sectors.                     decisions.                    CONELEC's, CONAM's, and
MEM's reports and statistics.
.                         ~~~~~~~~~Good coordination and
1.3. Strengthened the capacity of Project progress reports.   collaboration between
CONELEC and other relevant                                 CONELEC and Ministry of
entities, to conduct         Independent assessment        Environment.
environmental management of   (consultant's report).       Environment.
power sector activities.
1.4. Establishment of a       Project progress reports.    Commitment of the Government
liberalized wholesale electricity                          to implement and maintain pro-
market, with an increased     Independent assessment       competitive laws and regulations.
number of private operators and   (consultant's report).
improved administration by                                 CENACE committed to fulfill its
CENACE.                        CENACE's reports.           mandate and abide by the rules
established in the new legal and
regulatory framework.
1.5. Increased number of private   Project progress reports.  Successful privatization of power
operators providing rural      Market surveys.             sector companies (under
telecommunications,                                        IDB-financed project).
decentralized rural
electrification, energy efficiency
services and ICT-based services
to MSBs.
2. Extension of
telecommunications,
electricity and ICT-based
business services to low
income groups
2.1. Adoption of a sustainable   Govemment's official resolutions to ensure the financing of
strategy to extend          and regulations.              FODETEL, FERUM and other
- 39 -



telecommunications and
electricity services to the poor,                         financ     tig mechatisms for
including the adoption of cost                            off-grid electiificahon and rural
efficient financing and delivery                          telecommunications.
mechanisms.
.                  .        ~~~~~~~~~Effective cooperation between
2.2. Successful completion of   Surveys of a representative  CONAM, sector institutons and
pilot projects for rural    sample of project clients     other stakeholders.
telecommunications, testing the compared with a control group.
cost-efficiency, subsidy
optimization, service quality,   CONAM and CONATEL
effective community         progress reports.
participation and replicability of
the models adopted by the
Government.
2.3. Successful completion of   Survey of a representative sample
pilot projects for renewable  of project clients compared with
energy-based decentralized  a control group.
electrification, testing several
delivery and financing      CONAM, CONELEC and MEM
mechanisms and conditions for  monthly and biannual progress
sustainability and replicability.  reports.
.                           ~~~~~~~~~~System designs ablc to reach
2.4. Successful completion of   Surveys of a representative  smaller figms and beyond urban
the pilot project for ICT-based  sample of project clients  areasr
business development services  compared with a control group.
to MSBs in urban and                                       Active participation of clients in
peri-urban areas, showing    CONAM and MICIP progress   the desip and use of the Project.
evidence of changes in MSBs'  reports.
conduct, market outreach and
competitiveness leading to
incremental direct and indirect
value added and employment,
and showing replicability of the
delivery and financing models
adopted by the Government.
3. Increased energy end-use
efficiency
3.1. Successful implementation   Measurements of energy     Establishment of incentives and
of a program to enhance       consumption in a representative  regulations to foster efficient use
efficiency in the use of energy.   sample of project clients  and conservation of electricity.
compared with a control group.
Consumers will utilize efficient
electricity systems and
appliances.
Private energy services
companies (ESCOs) are
established.
4. Implementation of
effectivepublic consultations
and information mechanism
-40-



4.1. Adoption of sector reforms    Surveys and opinion polls.  Effective cooperation between
that balance appropriately                                  CONAM, sector institutions and
stakeholders' interests, and                                other stakeholders.
include effective enforcement and
dispute resolution mechanisms.
4.2 Public consensus around the
Governments modernization and
privatization program.
GEF Global Development        Outcome/Impact Indicators    Project Reports                (From Objective to Goal)
Objective
Mitigation of climate change  1. Actual tons of CO2 reduced    Measurement of energy      Establishment of incentives for
through reduction of greenhouse  through (i) the implementation of consumption in pilot projects and private development of
gas emissions, achieved by    pilot projects based on RETs in  in a control group.        renewable energy and energy
removing barriers to the use of:  rural areas; and (ii) the                               efficiency investments.
(i) RET to extend electricity  implementation of a program to   Calculations and survey-based
supply in rural areas (GEF    enhance end-use energy        projections for consumers     Consumers will afford and utilize
Operational Program No.6); and  efficiency.                 targeted for subsequent       renewable energy technologies
(ii) energy-efficiency measures                             decentralized electrification and  and energy-efficient systems and
(GEF Operational Program      2. Estimated tons of CO2 that    end-use energy efficiency.  appliances.
No.5).                        should be reduced through the
implementation of subsequent                                Several private energy services
investments resulting from the                              companies (ESCOs) and private
project activities, over the next                           providers of decentralized rural
five or ten years.                                          electrification will be operating.
-41-



.X;::t X:fE:d:: :; ;) ::: :;Kev Performance:         !::!j::            : :::  ::  :S    V  :f:0 4A!:
Hieah   of cbjtes  II Kendi:1d                    e        AMonitoring & Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Modernization of legal,
regulatory, and institutional
sectorframeworks
Telecommunications.           I . Action plan to strengthen  Monitoring by CONAM,         Gover         enure  SUaTil
Strenthenig of UPTEL SUPTEL regulatory capacity    SUPTEL, and the Bank (biannual  recevesmn aeqsuates financiL
prepared and implemented,    supervision missions).         resources and managerial
including: (a) procedures manual
and staffing plan; (b)                                      autonomy.
management and staff training
program, and (c) purchase of
equipment and software
programs.
1.2. Tariff rebalancing plan                                Government allows SUPTEL to
prepared and implemented by all                             play its enforcement role.
operators.
Electricity
Definition and implementation   1.3. Existing regulations updated Monitoring by CONAM,   New legal, regulatory,
of regulations and procedures   and additional regulations  CONELEC and the Bank         institutional framework is fully
for sector operation and    prepared to facilitate the   (biannual supervision missions).  applied and maintained,
expansion.                  operation and growth of a                                    especially autonomy of
* Strengthening of CONELEC    competitive, private sector led                             regulator and of sector
* Improvement of the sector's    electricity sector.                                      enterprises.
environmental management.
* Strengthening of CENACE and  1.4. Tariff adjustment plan                                Sector institutions receive
support to the establishment of  applied by CONELEC to                                   adequate resources to carry out
a liberalized electricity   progressively reach economic                                 their functions.
wholesale market.           costs.
1.5. Anti-Monopoly regulations   Prevent vertical and horizontal    New regulations to promote
prepared and adopted to promote integration.                competition and prevent
effective competition and prevent                           monopolistic abuses are
vertical and horizontal                                     effectively implemented.
integration in generation,
transmission and distribution
activities.
Monitoring by CONAM,
1.6. Measures to improve     CONELEC, MEM and the Bank   Good collaboration and
environmental management in   (biannual supervision missions).  coordination between
the sector adopted and                                      CONELEC and Ministry of
implemented including: (i)                                  Environment.
environmental regulations, norms
and guidelines for electricity
operations; (ii) creation of an
environmental unit within
CONELEC, (iii) training
programs for CONELEC,
Ministry of Environment and
sector operators, and (iv)
development of information and
-42 -



monitoring systems.
1.7. Action plan to strengthen    Monitoring by CONAM,
CONELEC prepared and         CONELEC and the Bank
implemented, including: (a)  (biannual supervision missions).
procedures manual and staffing
plan; (b) management and staff
training program; and (c)
purchase of equipment and
software programs.
1.8. Improve administration of   Reports from CENACE and   Sufficient private participation in
the wholesale electricity market  CONELEC.                 CENACE.
(WEM) by CENACE through the:
(a) application of rules for
WEM's operation; (b) acquisition
of necessary equipment and
software; and (c) training in
modem wholesale market
management techniques.
2. Extension of services to
low income groups in rural
andperi-urban areas
* Pilot projects to provide  2.1. Private operators to establish Bidding documents, including    Strong commitments of
telecommunications,      166 telecenters under concession  concession contracts.     CONATEL to design, implement
internet access and distance contracts through a competitive                         and monitor the projects and the
education services to rural   bidding for the least subsidy.  FODETEL's reports.     concession contracts.
and marginal urban areas.                                                            Significant interest among
private providers.
Active involvement of targeted
communities in monitoring of
performance by suppliers.
* Design and implementation   2.2. Electrification Program  Strategy document by        Strong commitment of the
of a sustainable strategy for  defined for the next 10 years by   CONELEC/MEM.       Government to implement the
rural electrification with  CONELEC and MEM for rural                                strategy, particularly the
private sector participation   and peri-urban electrification  Concessions and other contracts. financing mechanisms.
and promotion of RETs.    (on-grid and off grid) with
private sector participation and   Action plan for rural
promotion of RETs adopted and  electrification projects over 10
implemented. Sustainable     years.
financing and delivery
mechanisms, especially for off   Market surveys.
grid electrification program,
adopted and implemented.
Specific projects identified and
evaluated.
2.3. Market barriers to utilization
of RETs reduced, through
capacity building, public
information campaign, market
surveys and definition of
standards for RETs equipment
and installations.
- 43 -



* Pilot projects to provide  2.4. Pilot projects for off-grid  MEM's and CONELEC's reports. Significant interest among
electricity services to   electrification designed and                                 private providers and willingness
off-grid rural areas, and  implemented under 2 modalities: Concession and other contracts.  of consumers to use RETs.
promote the use of RETs.   -Serving Rural dispersed
population: Concession contracts                             Active involvement of targeted
granted through competitive                                  communities in monitoring of
bidding for the least subsidy, and                           performance by suppliers.
option forjoint provision of
telecommunications services in at
least one contract to install SHS
for lighting and communications
in about 2,220 households, 220
wind electric systems and 100
pico-hydro installations.
--Public Sector Infiastructure
Projects: Contracts granted to
operators to provide energy
supply for public services
(schools, health clinic,
community centers) including
about 100 sites.
* Pilot projects to provide,  2.5. Assessment of key        Consultant's report endorsed by   Government committed to
computer and intemet access regulations affecting e-commerce relevant authorities (MICIP,  promote of IT and IT related
and ICT-based business    (electronic signature, privacy  CONAM).                       activities to promote growth and
services to micro and small  issues, etc.) presented to the                             enhance competitiveness.
business in peri-urban and   Government.
large rural communities.
2.6. One hub and 4 community    Business plans of the centers.    Effective coordination between
ICT-based BDS centers designed                               CONAM, MICIP, relevant NGOs
and implemented by 12/31/02 in                               and business community.
peri-urban areas, and three BDS
centers in peri-urban areas and                              Strong interests of the business
one BDS center in rural areas                                community to participate in the
launched by 12/31/03 offering: (i)                           pilot sites.
ICT applications adapted for
local MSB; (ii) software with
local content to fit needs of local
businesses; (iii)
computer-training courses; and
(iv) intemet access at least for
the BDS in peri-urban areas.
3. Design and
implementation of a program
to promote efficient use of
electricity
 Reductio in bar3.1 .Standards and norms for    Surveys of program impacts on    Strong commitment of CONAM,
* Reduction i barriers to    efficient energy use and     electricity consumers.         MEM and other sector
efficiency enhancement,   conservation are issued, and                                institutions to design implement
through (a) electricity tariff electrical appliances are  MEM's and CONELEC's reports. and monitor the activities.
adjustments, and (b)     appropriately labeled.
issuance of related                                                                   Significant interest among public,
standards and norms, and   3.2. Information campaign                                  commercial and industrial users
labeling of electrical   undertaken on best practices for                             to participate.
appliances.              rational use of electricity.
 Dissemination of best                                                             Significant interest among
* Dissemination of best    3.3. Increase in the number of                                private providers and ESCOs.
practices for rational use of successful ESCOs and private
electricity.
-44 -



providers of efficient energy
* Support to the           equipment by private investors.
development of ESCOs.   3.4. Demonstration projects
* Implementation of        successfully implemented by
demonstration projects.    private investors.
4. Effective Project          4.1. Public consultations on  Project progress reports.     Full government commitment to
Communication,                proposed reforms in electricity                             openness and dialogue with civil
Coordination and              and telecommunications                                      society.
Management                    implemented, including the: (a)
organization of workshops and                               Effective CONAM- sector
focus groups to identify conceens;                          agencies cooperation in the
and (b) design and                                          design and implementation of the
* Stakeholder participation in  implementation of channels for                           campaign.
the design of the reform  stakeholders to further express
program.                  their views.
* Broad public dissemination  4.2. Public media campaign on   Communication documents.   Effective CONAM- sector
of the content and impact of  the content and impact of sector                        agencies cooperation in the
sector reforn programs.   reforms designed, opinion                                   design and implementation of the
* Increased transparency in   researches completed and                                   campaign.
sector regulation.        outreach activities launched.
* Additional support to sector
reforms provided as needed.
* Effective project
management and
coordination.
4.3. Action plan and staff training Approved action plan.   Effective cooperation between
program adopted and                                         CONAM and sector agencies.
implemented for strengthening
CONATEL, SUPTEL and
CONELEC's capacity to
undertake timely public
consultations, and systematically
disseminate regulatory decisions
and procedures.
4.4. Timely implementation of   CONAM's quarterly progress  Effective CONAM- sector
the Project.                 reports.                       agencies cooperation in the
preparation and implementation
of the Project.
*-45 -



f::;0: : ; f;  :7:  7: Key Performance V;|ti0;0tt   
Hierarchy of Objectives          KeY1Indicators;          ] Monitoring &Evaluation         C rntical Assumptions
Project Components I          Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:               component)                                                  Outputs)
(US$'000)
(Total cost with contingencies
and taxes)
1. Modernization of legal,               12,802
regulatory, and institutional
frameworks
(a) SUPTEL institutional              1,166             Project progress reports,     Satisfactory activity preparation
(b)sTrengnd Equipment for             1 885supervision reports and mid-term  and implementation by SUPTEL,
(b) TA and Equipment for              1,885             review.                       CONELEC and CONAM with
(cONELEC TA for improving1055..appropriate support from
(c) TA for inmproving                   ,055            Annual and activity reports by    consultants.
enviroC nental management.                              SUPTEL, CONELEC, CENACE
to CONELEC, Environment                                 and CONAM.                    Actual availability of CENACE's
Ministry and operators.                                                               cutratfns
(d) Equipment and TA to               7,956                                           counterpart funds.
CENACE to supervise and
manage the WEM.
(e) Preparatory studies.              740
2. Extension of services to
low income groups in rural                13,816
and peri-urban areas
Telecommunications                       6,972             Project progress reports,     Satisfactory activity preparation
(a) Preparation, implementation                             supervision reports and mid-term  and implementation by CONAM,
and evaluation of pilot projects.                           review.                       CONATEL, MEM, CONELEC,
and MICIP, with appropriate
Rural Electrijication (GEF)               1,874             Annual and activity reports by    support from consultants.
(a) Assistance to MEM and                                   CONATELUFODETEL,
CONELEC.                                                    CONELEC, MEM and MICIP.   Actual participation and
(b) Preparation, implementation           2,081                                           financing by private investors.
and evaluation of pilot projects.
ICT- based business services              2,890
(a) E-readiness assessment                 933
(review of regulations and IT
inventory), business plan and TA.
(b) Preparation, implementation           1,957
and evaluation of pilot project.
3. Design and                           7,113
implementation of a
program to promote
efficient use and
conservation of electricity
(GEF)
Project progress reports,     Satisfactory activity preparation
(a) Removing barriers to energy          1,970             supervision reports and mid-term  and implementation by MEM,
efficiency development.                                   review.                        with appropriate support from
(b) Demonstration projects.                                                              consultants.
5,142             MEM's annual and activity
- 46 -



reports.                     Actual participation and
financing by private investors.
4. Effective Project                    8,984
Communication,
Coordination and
Management
(a) General project                     5,207            CONAM's quarterly progress   Appropriate project staff remains
coordination, supervision and                            reports and consultants' monthly  in place in CONAM's UEP and in
monitoring by CONAM.                                     reports. Supervision reports and  implementing agencies.
(b) Supervision and monitoring                           midterm review.
by SUPTEL, CONELEC,                     1,400                                          CONAM and implementing
MEM, CONATEL/FODETEL                                                                  agencies are allocated sufficient
and MICIP.                                                                            counterpart funds.
(c) Communications and
c  onsul ications                                                                     Transparency and openness are
consutations strategy.                 2,377                                          the basis for the communication
and consultation strategy.
- 47 -



Annex la. Core Indicators of Project Outcome/Impacts (1)
Objective               Performance Indicators                           Year End                         Docu-
Base-line    2001  2002 | 2003 | 2004 | 2005    ment
l   (2000)
1. MODERNIZATION OF LEGAL, REGULATORY AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                         I
TELECOMMUNICATIONS  _                                            _                                       _           _
* Improved effectiveness of    * Number of thousand          8.77           8.8   9.0    10.0   12.0   14.0   C, H
supervisory agency SUPTEL   subscribers per SUPTEL
employee                                              _                  _. _
1.2 ELECTRICITY
* Improved effectiveness of    * Aggregate timeliness of     (to be defined       __H, I
regulatory agency, CONELEC  CONELEC in completing            in
selected regulatory tasks as   CONELEC's
established in its procedures (%). Strategic Plan
in Sep/2001)                                                  l
* Efficient administration of   * Timely presentation of     8              8     8       8       6      6       K, H
the wholesale market         transaction settling and billing
administrator, CENACE        information (hours)            (August 2000)                                     _  _
2. EXTENSION OF SERVICES TO LOW INCOME GROUPS IN RURAL AND PERI-URBAN AREAS
* Positive impact of pilot   * Traffic in project-financed   0              0      0       12mn  24mn  32mn  B, E, N.
projects for rural telephony    telecenters (minutes/day)                                                        G, H
and electricity              * Number of electrified         0              0    0        800     2220   2220
households in pilot project areas
* Positive impact of pilot   * Cumulative number of MSBs   (to be defined                                        N, M, G,
projects for ICT-based       that have used business services  in MicroNet                                       H
services micro and small                                     business plan
businesses (MSBs).                                           in Jan/2002)                   _          __         _
3. INCREASED END-USE ENERGY EFFICIENCY                            __I
* Positive impact of         * Reduction in energy           0              0    | 0       6.6    18.9   38.3   N.G,H
demonstration projects       consumption of users
participating in the pilot projects.
* GWh thousand BBLF            0                     0      4       2               ___l__
1         1~ ~ 1       147      261  157.6!I
GEF GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE                              _
* Mitigation of climate    |  Actual thousand tons of CO     0              0     0        14.1   47.6   80.0   N, G H
change through reduction of   reduced through the                                                I lN,G,H
greenhouse gas emissions.    implementation of demonstration
projects (renewable energy-based
rural electrification and end-use
energy efficiency).           l              l      l_l_
Note (1): The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) contains detailed indicators that will be used by CONAM and the Bank to monitor the electncity
and telecommunications sectors, the outcome and outputs of the Project and the implementation of project components.
Sources of Information
B: CONATEL Annual Reports
C: SUPTEL Annual Reports
E: Rural Demand Studies
G: Project progress reports
H: Independent Assessment (consultants' report)
1: CONELEC Reports.
K: CENACE Annual Reports.
M: MICIP Reports.
N: Periodic surveys of representative samples compared with a baseline control group
- 48 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ECUADOR: Power and Communications Sectors Modernization and Rural Services
Project (PROMEC)
(The cost items include 15 percent physical and price contingencies and taxes.)
By Component:
Project Component I - US$12.80 million
Strengthening of legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks in the telecommunications and
electricity sectors. Cost US$12,802,000; Loan financing US$10,287,000
a. Strengthening of SUPTEL's supervisory/enforcement capacity: Cost - US$1,166,000; Loan
financing - US$1,000,000;
This component includes, inter alia:
*   Technical Assistance to design a quality of service control system for telecommunication, radio and
TV operators, design a new organization structure and procedures to improve the efficiency of
SUPTEL, design a radio frequency spectrum monitoring and management system and improve
SUPTEL's internal communication and information systems;
*   Training of SUPTEL  staff in modem  telecommunications regulation, dispute r esolution,
management and monitoring of the radio frequency spectrum, new technologies, and management;
and
* Systems and equipment for operators' quality of service control, radio frequency management and
monitoring, and internal information and communication.
b. Strengthening of CONELEC's regulatory capacity: Cost - US$1,885,000; Loan financing -
US$1,536,000
The following activities are included:
i   Two advisers for specialized advice over the project duration;
3 Refinement of regulations and preparation of new regulations, including on third-party access to
transmission and distribution, anti-monopoly, guarantees of existing contracts and exports and
imports of electricity;
* Studies and consultancies on regulatory and tariff issues;
* Database and information systems;
* Software models, including GIS system;
*   Training;
* Assistance for supervision and evaluation of the wholesale electric market;
* Assistance for supervision and evaluation of quality of service; and
* Measuring equipment.
c. Improving environmental management in the electricity sector with assistance to CONELEC and
other relevant institutions Cost - US$1,055,000; Loan financing - US$900,000
This component comprises:
*  Assistance to strengthen the various institutions involved in the environmental management of the
power sector (i.e., mainly CONELEC), but also the Ministry of Environment, CONAM and sector
operators. Main actions include: (a) establish a Environmental Management Unit (EMIU) within
CONELEC and provide necessary training and equipment to the EMU; (b) establish a
- 49 -



inter-institutional environmental network to serve as a forum for the various institutions cited above to
discuss environmental issues; and (c) support the creation of environmental units within the sector
companies to facilitate compliance with environmental guidelines and promote efficient use of energy;
*   Assistance to CONELEC to complete and implement environmental regulations: The main objective
will be to prepare and implement a Manual of Procedures that will accompany the Reglamento
ambiental para actividades eletricas. Discussions with focus groups will take place during the
preparation of the manual, and three workshops will be organized in Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca to
present and disseminate the Reglamento and the Manual;
* Provide training to improve environmental management to the various institutions cited above;
*   Assistance to develop and implement information and monitoring systems:  environment quality
network to gather information on air quality, acid rain, quality of water, and other environmental
parameters; and
* Assistance to develop a database of economic and technical information on altemative sources of
energy to facilitate the design and implementation of generation projects using renewable sources of
energy.
d. Improving wholesale market administration by CENACE: Cost - US$7,956,000; Loan fmancing -
US$6,187,000;
This component will support the proper functioning of the liberalized electricity wholesale market, through
assistance in the elaboration and applications of rules for its operation, the financing of relevant studies,
and the financing of the necessary equipment and software, including:
* Development of a short-term planning model that will provide information on system reliability, cost of
dispatch, and maintenance scheduling, in order to improve load dispatch programming, ensure system
security and reliability, and enhance quality of supplies;
*  Development of a medium and long term planning model to forecast hydrology of the system and
creation of database on hydroclimatology. This information would also be used by CONELEC for its
own medium-term system planning, and by prospective investors to decide on capacity expansion;
3 Set-up of a system for the settlement of commercial transactions in the wholesale market, which will
allow the determination and evaluation of transactions (i.e., physical amounts of electricity traded),
evaluation and closure of spot market transactions, charges to system operators for services rendered,
and financial settlements (for energy and capacity) between distribution companies and
generation/transmission companies;
*   Development of an integrated commercial measurement system, which will allow: (i) remote control of
information submitted by generating companies, distributors and large-volume consumers; and (ii)
centralized verification and processing of this information, required to assess transactions (energy and
capacity) carried out by the wholesale market operators. This subcomponent would include the
acquisition of a limited amount of measuring and registration equipment;
* Upgrading of information systems that support CENACE's technical and commercial functions and
provide CONELEC and the operators with information on the functioning of the different market
segments;
* Developing a network architecture. This activity includes the acquisition of firewall, switch and proxy
servers as well as the design of an intemet platform;
* Implement System Integration. This activity includes the purchase of hardware and software to
undertake the integration of the different systems used in the administration of the WEM; and
* Acquisition of hardware and software for improving the real-time operation of the interconnected
system. Existing sub-systems (for data acquisition, operator-equipment interface, and maintenance)
were designed in the early l990s and require updating. This entails acquisition and testing of new
equipment and programs.
- 50 -



e. Preparatory and general studies; Cost - US$740,000; Loan financing - US$664,000
This component will include the realization of several studies and consultancies including:
* Tariff rebalancing study for telecommunications for the determination of the economic (long-run
marginal) costs, by groups of service. On the basis of economic costs and financial requirements of
service providers, standard tariffs for principal groups of services will be developed; a re-balancing
plan to establish tariffs at their economic cost for each service group will be designed and
corresponding tariff policies will be formulated;
* Completion of studies on wholesale market administration to update and improve systems for
transactional circuit development, measurement of commercial operations, and preparation and
exchange of information for operators; and
* Studies to analyze the impact of electricity prices on consumers and the economy, and the assessment
of the contribution of the Mazar Project to Hidro-Paute's additional generation.
Project Component 2 - US$13.82 million
Extension of telecommunications, electricity and ICT-based business services to low income groups in
rural andperi-urban areas. Cost - US$13,816,000; Loanfinancing - US$7,347,000
a. Telecommunications Pilot projects to be financed through FODETEL. Cost - US$6,972,000 Loan
financing - US$4,420,000;
This component will provide subsidies to private operators, through an international competitive bidding
process based on the minimum subsidy, to install and operate rural public telecenters that provide
telephone and telecenter services, such as computer services, internet access, distance video and audio
conference facilities used for distance education, fax, printing, file transfer, etc. FODETEL will carry out
a demand study to determine the exact size of the Centers, their location and the number of PCs per
center. Preliminary studies show that the Project will finance the installation of about 166 telecenters, that
include on the average five or more PCs, one or more public telephones, and in some cases a virtual
classroom for 20 students. There will be three types of telecenters, designed for small (less than 10,000
inh), medium (between 10,000 and 20,000) and large (20,000 and more) towns, and their final design will
be tailored to demand. The investment cost will vary with the size between US$30,000 and US$50,000 or
more per center, with an average subsidy of about US$25,000 per center. The demand study will
determine the size of each center. Through concession contracts with CONATEL, the private operators
will commit to operate the centers for a duration to be determined (in principle 10 years based on
experience in other countries), to keep them open a certain number of hours per day and to maintain
quality of service. CONATEL will replenish the subsidy fund (FODETEL) through the contribution of 1
percent of revenues from telephone operators. CONATEL will also supervise the implementation of the
Project, and that the telecenters are kept open the specified number of hours a day, and that the services
that the Operator committed to provide in the contract with CONATEL will actually be given. The video
conference facilities in the telecenters will be used to provide education and training for teachers, students
and inhabitants to improve the quality of education in the rural areas in the area of influence of the
telecenters. CONATEL will coordinate with government institutions, universities, polytechnic institutes,
association of teachers, associations of parents, and other public and private organizations to deliver the
tele-education program. This activity will include motivational courses for the teacher leaders and school
superintendents, in the areas of influence of the telecenters.
Preparation of the above component will be carried out by CONATEL, and will include, inter alia the
following activities:
* Demand study (US$100,000);
- 51 -



*   Preparation of tender document and carrying out the auction (IJS$20,000);
*   Promoting the use of the centers in the community (US$50,000);
*   Training local staff in charge of the telecenters (US$50,000); and
*   Supervision and monitoring (US$50,000).
b. Development of a rural electrification plan and program implementation support: Cost -
US$1,874,000; Loan financing - US$381,000; GEF financing - US$1,150,000
This sub-component primarily funded through GEF, is designed to: (i) provide a sound national plan and
strategy for both grid and off-grid rural electrification developed with participation of the principal
stakeholders; (ii) ensure development of an effective legal, regulatory and institutional framework; (iii)
provide technical, financial and promotional support to pursue this strategy and mitigate key constraints;
and (iv) develop a variety of implementation mechanisms and approaches to lay the basis for a sustainable
electricity expansion program. The activity will support market analysis and provide implementation
support for both pilot projects and other off-grid electrification initiatives, support overall rural
electrification program promotion and capacity development, and provide specialized support to ensure the
effectiveness of renewable energy-based electricity supply.
Specific components comprise the following (see detailed description in Annex 4a):
*   Design and implementation of a plan and strategy for rural electrification over the next 10 years by
CONELEC, with support of MEM and stakeholders; identification and evaluation of rural
electrification projects (grid-extension and off-grid) through a market survey complemented with cost
analysis; and
*   Identification of institutional, technical, financial and other barriers to extending electricity supplies,
and development of options for their mitigation. These options would include such items as: (i)
strengthening promotional and technical capacity for off-grid electrification planning and
implementation; (ii) development of altemative implementing schemes including electric utility and
non-utility concession approaches, community and NGO projects and development project linkages,
including for example rural telephony, water supply and social services; (iii) definition of appropriate
standards for RET equipment and installation, and training of local support personnel; (iv) public
information and training of management and operational staff, including staff from the power sector
regulator CONELEC, on best practices, related technologies, and off-grid project preparation and
implementation; and (v) monitoring and evaluation of the entire program and of the off-grid pilot
projects.
c. Pilot Projects for decentralized off-grid electrification Cost US$2,081,000; Loan financing -
US$1,387,000; GEF financing - US$463,000
Demonstration projects are funded in this component along with specialized services required for
implementation, including review and selection of final projects, negotiation of agreements with
implementers, project-specific training, and hardware acquisition and installation. The pilots are designed
to demonstrate sustainable as well as replicable institutional mechanisms for project financial
administration and project O&M, to demonstrate sound technical performance and reliability, to meet
consumers expectations, and to provide socio-economic benefits to end users (see detailed description in
Annex 4a).
(1) Rural Dispersed Population -- "Sub-Concession" Pilot -$1. 687, 000.  This pilot will consist of a
number of site specific demonstration projects in different areas designed to test the feasibility and
effectiveness of a moderate size rural "concession" or concession-like approach, for planning,
- 52 -



installation, maintenance, financial administration and local replication/expansion, of primarily
household off-grid electrification systems. Typically the projects are expected to involve dispersed PV,
wind or small-hydro installations, potentially including mini-grids, serving public service, household
and productive end uses in medium to high potential zones. Potential installations would include about
2,850 household PV, wind electric and micro-hydro installations.
(2) Public Sector Infrastructure Pilot - Cost $394,000. This pilot project will demonstrate the
sustainability and technical viability of dispersed (off-grid) electrification in areas with lower
socio-economic capacity. Support will involve energy supply for public services, for example - in
health clinics, schools, community centers and for telecommunications, as well as in very small home
lighting systems.   Selected community or ethnic organizations, NGOs or other development
organizations, RET suppliers or project developers, electric utilities, or others representing
communities may be implementing entities. Installations are expected to involve dispersed PV, and/or
wind or small-hydro installations, potentially including mini-grids, serving public services including
school, health clinics, community centers, and telephone centers, and potentially some productive uses.
The Project will directly finance installations in about 100 schools, community centers and/or health
centers, and coordinate with selected telecenter development in villages and towns of the north and
south border areas, the Amazon and other zones (some 40 planned in telecommunications component of
the Project). The pilot will be coordinated with, and provide technical support to the MEM's social
service electrification project (CAF-financed).
d. Pilot projects to develop business centers for MSBs in peri-urban and large rural communities:
Cost - US$2,890,000; Loan financing - US$1,158,000; Private Sector financing - US$1,198,000.
This component will assist the MICIP to develop a program to bring IT and ICT based business services to
MSB, and to design and implement a series of pilot projects that will test the impact of these services on
low-income entrepreneurs. The Project will also assist the Government in developing ICT policies that
would facilitate internet exchanges and transactions, and are key to create a favorable environment to the
development of e-business. The following activities will also be undertaken under the Project to help
strengthen the ICT policy environment and undertake the pilot projects:
3   Complete an E-readiness assessment, to provide the framework for the design and implementation of
the program, including: (i) an overview of regulations affecting internet provision and use, and the
identification of major barriers to internet and e-commerce development with recommendations for
specific actions in regulatory and policy areas; and (ii) an inventory of the existing IT infrastructure
and businesses (access, prices, web-sites, lSPs etc.);
* Assess against international best practices and make recommendatiorns as needed regarding a law to
improve the legal framework for conducting e-business, which will: (i) give electronic signatures and
electronic messages the same legal status as hand-written ones; (ii) define the cbligations of the
institutions providing electronic certification and other services related to digital signatures; (iii)
regulate electronic contracts and consumer protection; and (iv) define responsibilities for electronic
fraud. ("De Comercio Electr6nico, Firmas Electr6nicas y Mensajes de Datos," Draft Law, 2001);
* Assess policy and promotion options in light of international experience and make recommendations as
needed in the area of data privacy and consumer protection, which are concerns that tend to hinder the
growth in e-business and e-govemment;
*   Review international practices in such areas and prepare recommendations as needed with regard to (i)
development of technological parks; (ii) elimination of taxes on the imports of lhardware and software;
(iii) provision of incentives to international internet service providers entering the Ecuador market; and
(iv) provision of fiscal incentives for the introduction of new teclinologies; and
- 53 -



*   Design and implement Business Development Services (BDS) for MSBs in two phases. The first
phase will consist of one hub and three community ICT-based BDS designed and implemented by
12/31/02, two in peri-urban areas and one in rural areas; and the second phase of another four BDS in
peri-urban areas and one BDS in rural areas launched by 12/31/03. These BDS will offer: (i)
packages such as phone/fax/mail; (ii) ICT applications adapted for local MSB; (iii) software with local
content to fit needs of local businesses; (iv) computer-training courses for community members to
foster the use of facilities; (v) internet access at least for the BDS in pen-urban areas; and (vi) training
in management and production techniques.
Project Component 3 - US$ 7.11 million
Enhancement of electricity end-use efficiency: Cost - US$7,114,000; Loan financing - US$508,000;
GEF financing - US$1,226,000; Private Financing - US$ 4,992,000.
This activity, funded by the GEF and the Bank, together with substantial private sector financial
participation, seeks to: (i) establish the technical and financial mechanisms needed to promote the efficient
electricity end-use generally, and energy use and environmentally friendly practices in industry; (ii) remove
legal, regulatory and/or institutional barriers to efficiency enhancement and create related incentives; and
(iii) through local capacity development, lay the basis for a sustainable and economy-wide energy
conservation and efficiency program. Specific components include:
e   Review of legal, regulatory and institutional barriers to efficiency, as well as technical, manpower
and financial constraints. Consideration will be given to such issues as tax treatment of efficiency
investments, import and tariff treatment of equipment and instrumentation and overall availability of
both equipment and technical services, adequacy of financing and utility incentives for support of
energy efficiency;
3   Development of incentives and financing options. The project will assess a variety of incentive
options including innovative electricity tariff design and other approaches to support efficiency, as well
as evaluating the terms, conditions, general availability and cost of financing for efficiency investment.
Among the financing initiatives for efficiency activities to be considered will be a potential levy on
utility bills (e.g., I percent) to support investments;
*   Market Studies.  Market surveys and load studies will be supporte.! to identify and quantify
opportunities, and assist in design of remedial efforts;
*   Cost-BenefitAnalyses. The project will support cost/benefit analyses of efficiency investments and
assist in incorporating these considerations into utility regulatory policy, distribution utility incentives,
and into indicative least-cost generation planning;
*   Efficiency Training, Technical Assistance and ESCO Support.  Assistance will be provided for
stakeholder involvement, as well as for improving government policy and promotion capacity.
Technical assistance and training will be directed toward major private sector end users and technical
professionals in industry, commerce and electric utilities. In addition, the project will support the
energy service industry (ESCOs), including through development of improved technical capacity,
effective ESCO-type contracts and agreements, and interaction with potential international partners;
*   Information, Motivation and Standards and Norms. A complement to other project initiatives will be
efforts to improve end use equipment purchase and replacement decisions. This entails including
labeling to inform consumers of the life-cycle cost of new equipment (e.g. for air conditioners,
refrigerators, lighting and motors) and encouraging upgrading the efficiency of products available in
the local market through cooperative activities with local manufacturers or importers. Building
standards will also be considered;
*   Demonstration of Replicable Opportunities: A number of demonstration projects will be undertaken
oriented toward showcasing replicable opportunities, including: (i) ESCO and/or private utility
- 54 -



cooperative programs for lighting improvement in the residential sector, and multi end-use energy
efficiency in commerce/governent buildings; (ii) public-private joint venture for improved municipal
street lighting; and (iii) "strategic partnership" program with industrial and commercial organizations to
support energy and environmental improvements (e.g. waste reduction, resource recovery, etc.); and
0  Monitoring and evaluation of the entire program and main demonstration projects.
Project Component 4 - US$8.98 million
Project communication, coordination and management  Cost - US$8,984,000; Loan financing -
US$4,858,000
a. CONAM  project coordination and monitoring:  Cost - US$5,207,000; Loan financing -
US$2,932,000
CONAM's Public Enterprise UJnit has contracted 1i local specialists, including for telecommunications,
electricity, private enterprise development, utility pricing, and financial administration, to coordinate
project implementation by the sector entities, as well as to supervise various consultancies for which the
sector entities do not yet ha/e the required analytical capabilities. CONAM will also manage project
procurement, administration, disbursement, accounting and reporting. The Project will finance these
consultants to provide legal, economic and technical advice and carry out necessary financial and
administrative procedures. This component will fund local transportation, expenses for office space,
equipment and supplies. The project will also finance the project audits.
b. Project management by SUPTEL, FODETEL, CONELEC, MEM-DEA, and MICIP. Cost
US$1,400,000; Loan financing US$0
The implementing agencies will designate staff to manage the execution of their respective project
components, in particular for the drafting of terms of reference, the orientation and support to consulting
firns and the review and implementation of measures, regulations, policies and projects as defined by the
studies.
c. Communication and consultation campaign for CONAM, SUPTEL and CONELEC: Cost -
US$2,377,000; Loan financing - US$1,916,000
This subcomponent wiil provide assistance, by national and international specialists, to CONAM in
carrying out a communications process with stakeholders and relevant civil society organizations on the
Government's aims and policies in regard to the reform and privatization program. Specific targets are to:
(i) communicate with stakeholders on the importance, requirements, and implications of the Government's
program, through eliciting their concerns and fostering their appreciation of the benefits of reforms; (ii)
build consensus around reforms among the population at large; (iii) develop communications capacity
among institutions instrumental to reforms, including through systematic feedback on the public's
perceptions on reforms; (iv) design internal communications mechanisms directed at staffs of enterprises
slated for privatization; (v) improve media understanding of reform and privatization issues; and (vi)
improve perceptions by intemational investors about Ecuador. Results will allow CONAM and the
Government at large to better assess concerns by the affected populations and consequent requirements for
policy modifications, and thus, provide feedback for policy decisions.
The component would be undertaken in three phases: (i) immediate action to prepare a communications
strategy and implementation plan, including public opinion and stakeholder research; (ii) launching
outreach activities, putting public information actions on a strategic footing, and strengthening CONAM's
- 55 -



communications capacity (until mid-2002); and (iii) follow-on actions to put the activity on a pennanent
and sustainable basis (after mid-2002).
The component will also support SUPTEL and CONELEC in their efforts to undertake: (a) timely and
inclusive public consultations on major regulatory decisions, through focus groups, public hearings and
web-site discussions, and (b) systematic dissemination of sector programs (i.e., rural telecommunications
programs), regulatory decisions and procedures through newspapers and website.
Stakeholder participation is critical to achieve the objectives of the Project. As indigenous populations are
key actors, it is necessary to program participatory activities and specific studies from the design phase up
to the implementation and supervision of the Project. Workshops, focus groups and interviews will be
organized in order to achieve the following:
(i) define a strategy for consultation by the implementing agencies in each of the Project components,
with special emphasis on those, which by definition will benefit the indigenous communities;
(ii) integrate and reinforce the mechanisms of consultation already in place to promote inclusion of
indigenous populations, such as public hearings;
(iii) take into account experiences from previous consultation in the two sectors that could provide
feedback for the Project implementation. The analysis will need to identify the existing barriers that
prevent indigenous access to the services, and direct the intervention, taking into account their cultural
context. The existing barriers and the mechanisms to overcome them will be examined in the context
of the communication strategy of the Project; and
(iv) provide resources and specialized assistance during Project implementation to ensure efficient
provision of services, that maximizes the impact of' the benefits from the Project by increasing
opportunities to generate income in these communities.
- 56 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ECUADOR: Power and Communications Sectors Modernization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC)
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million   US $million
1 - Legal/Regulatory/Institutional Framework              1.52         9.69         11.21
2 - Service extension in rural and pen-urban areas        7.28         5.54         12.82
3 - Enhancement of energy efficiency                      4.65          1.74         6.39
4 - Project Communication, Coordination and Management    6.39          1.36         7.75
Total Baseline Cost                                      19.84         18.33        38.17
Physical Contingencies                                   0.91         0.70          1.61
Price Contingencies                                      1.83          1.40         3.23
Total Project Costs             22.58        20.43         43.01
Front-end fee                    0.23         0.23
Total Financing Required             22.58         20.66        43.24
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category               US $million   US $million   US $million
Goods                                                      15.05          9.35        24.40
Works                                                       0.00          0.00         0.00
Services                                                    7.03         10.03        17.06
Training                                                    0.22          1.06          1.28
Operational Costs                                           0.28          0.00         0.28
Total Project Costs    22.58          20.44        43.02
Front-end fee                    0.23         0.23
Total Financing Required     22.58         20.67         43.25
- 57 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
ECUADOR: Power and Communications Sectors Modernization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC)
Summary of benefits and costs:
As result of the Government's program to modernize and privatize the telecommunications and electricity
sectors, the economy at large will benefit from improved and expanded access to a wider range of modern
telecommunications and electricity services, increased efficiency, and improved quality of delivery.
Opening up these sectors to private investment would stimulate private enterprise in other infrastructure
sectors as well, leading to enhanced efficiency and transparency in the provision of these services. In
addition, strengthening the regulatory entities and promoting competition in the sectors will benefit
customers through improvements in quality of service and reduction of its cost.
Electricity
1. Completing the legal and regulatory framework and strengthening the capacity of CONELEC
A sound and complete legal and regulatory framework in the electricity sector and a capable and
autonomous regulator (CONELEC) are essential elements for the success of the Government's strategy to
open the sector to private investment and to promote competition. The Project will assist CONELEC in
completing and updating sector regulations, and will finance technical assistance, training, and acquisitions
of equipment and software that will allow the regulator to dispose of a wider range of regulatory tools, to
have more accurate infornation on the sector and develop a stronger regulatory capacity (the Project's
assistance to CONELEC and MEM to define and implement a Plan for Rural Electrification is discussed
later in Annex 4a). The benefits of providing assistance to the Government in those particular areas will be
measured to a certain extent through the performance indicators that have been agreed with this institution
(see Annex la and the Project Implementation Plan). However, the full benefits of the Project's support to
the development of a stronger legal and institutional set-up in the electricity sector are ultimately those that
will be achieved by the overall sector reform, and are reflected in the evolution of the sector performance
indicators: more electricity available to final users, greater reliability and efficiency in the sector, and
prices closer to the economic costs.
Strengthening the capacity of the regulator, CONELEC as described above, would ensure that the rules
will be implemented and would reinforce the credibility of the system. Both can be decisive factors to
attract private investors in sectors like electricity, which require the commitment of substantial amount of
resources over a long time period. They can also play an important role in building up and maintaining
popular support for the reforms, as they ensure that part of the benefits from greater efficiency of the firms
and additional investment in a competitive sector will reach the final users.
2. Development of a liberalized wholesale market and strengthening of CENACE
Supporting the modernization program of CENACE, the administrator of the wholesale electricity market
(WEM) is critical for the development and functioning of a competitive power market. The Electricity Law
and the corresponding regulations for the wholesale market provide a framework that promotes competition
and economic efficiency, while opening the sector to private investment is likely to increase the number of
participants in that market. Nevertheless, it will be difficult to realize the strong potential for greater
competition and improved efficiency in the WEM -- and reap the corresponding benefits in terms of more
electricity, greater reliability and lower wholesale prices -- if CENACE is unable to operate the network
- 58 -



efficiently and handle proper financial accounting for the settlement of energy transactions under the new
commercial rules of the system.  Currently, the WEM  administrator operates equipment that is
substantially out of date and uses information systems that rely on manual collection, which makes it prone
to reviews and processes data with a significant margin of error. In addition, while the WEM is expected to
grow over the coming years as the unbundling and privatization of electricity firms take place and the
market opens to greater competition, CENACE still lacks the capacity to supervise real time transactions in
a dynamic wholesale market with a large number of agents.
To overcome these limitations, CENACE has developed a modernization strategy and the Project will
support its implementation by financing relevant studies and training programs to strengthen CENACE's
capacity to administer the WEM and by providing financing for the acquisition of equipment and software.
The investment in equipment and software aims to improve the: (i) short and medium-term sector planning;
(ii) real time operations of the interconnected system; (iii) settling of commercial transactions; (iv)
commercial measurement system; and (v) information systems to support the technical and commercial
functions of CENACE.
Total costs of the investments amount to US$7,956,450, of which the Loan would finance US$6,187,340.
These costs are consistent with those of international bids for similar equipment in projects executed in
other LAC countries. They have been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. Direct costs are
expressed in current prices, and include provisions for taxes (import duties, VAT on local services and
goods, and taxes on revenues of international consultants' services). Physical contingencies were estimated
at 15 percent, which is reasonable for this type of equipment.
The most immediate benefits from investing in updated equipment and software, and applying modem
market management techniques come from the improved precision in the measurement of power flows in
the system, which will drastically reduce the error margin in settling commercial transactions in the WEM.
CENACE estimated that inaccuracies in measurement result in an error of one percent of the value of the
total transactions (Auditoria del Proceso de Administraci6n y Liquidaci6n de Transacciones Comerciales
del MEM, Enero 2001).
Table 1 below summarizes the impact estimated by CENACE of a more accurate measurement of power
flows on the commercial transactions in the WEM. The case without project is built on the basis of
existing CONELEC's projections for demand growth under a "medium case scenario" and allows for some
delays in the implementation of CENACE's investment program. The case with the project reflects the
gains for the system of having more accurate measurements. Commercial transactions are valued at
US$2001 prices. Note that although transaction volumes are expected to increase as a result of demand
growth and measurement improvements, revenues from the transactions will fluctuate, as prices are
expected due to increased competition and more electricity available in the WEM.
- 59 -



Table 1:
Wholesale Electricity Market
Projection 2001-2010
Electricity Demand                    Average Annual Revenues
at Importing nodes                            WEM
(GWh)             Energy Cost         (US$Million)
Without                (importing node)   Without
Year     Project   With Project  (US$IMWh)         Project   With Project
2001    11,358.0      11,358.0     62.68            711.92      711.92
2002    12,010.0      12,010.0     77.17            926.81       926.81
2003    12,712.0      12,712.0     79.30           1,008.06    1,008.06
2004    13,458.0      13,592.6     39.84            536.17      541.53
2005    14,244.0      14,386.4     42.89            610.93      617.03
2006    15,120.0      15,271.2     47.75            721.98       729.20
2007    15,989.0      16,148.9     40.93            654.43       660.97
2008    16,909.0      17,078.1     43.55            736.39      743.75
2009    17,980.0      18,159.8     59.31          1,066.39     1,077.06
20101   20,136.0      20,337.4     43.46            875.11       883.86
Sources: (a) CENACE estimates; (b) "CONELEC: Plan de Electrificacion de Ecuador,
periodo 2000-2009; Octubre 2000"; and (c) Restrepo, P et al: "Estudio de mercado del
sistema Mazar-Paute-Molino", Mayo 17, 2001.
Table 2 summarizes the result of the financial and economic analysis of CENACE's investment program,
using the increase in the volume of transactions on the WEM as a proxy for the benefits derived from
investing in new equipment, software and management techniques. This is a conservative approach, for an
efficient and dynamic wholesale market contributes in many ways to improve the overall efficiency and
reliability of the electricity sector.
Table 2: Financial and Economic Analys is of CENACE's Investment Program
Costs                    Financial Analysis  Economic Analysis   Fiscal  Impact  of
CENACE Inv. Prog.
Total: US$ 8.0M         NPV=US$ 19.3 M   NPV=US$ 20.5 M        Taxes= 1.54 (*)
Net of Taxes: US$ 6.19M   IRR-54%         IRR=65%             No subsidies
(*) The fiscal impact would be equal to US$0.2M if the Government waived import duties for goods and VAT on
local consultant's services financed in the project.
Main Assumptions:
*  Demand and Prices for 2001-2010 are based on CONELEC's estimates under a medium-case scenario.
*  Electricity prices are calculated at the importing nodes.
*  Discount rate is 12.0 percent.
*  Investments will take place in 2002 and 2003.
*  The new system for measurement of commercial transactions will be in place in 2004. This
assumption allows for some delay in the implementation of the original investment schedule.
- 60 -



*  Improvement in measurement of commercial transactions will yield an increase of around 1 percent of
the demand as measured at the importing nodes.
*  Import duty rate=30 percent; VAT= 14 percent on local good and services; VAT=0 percent on
imported goods financed with multilateral' loans. Tax on income of international consultant services=
26.4 percent. If the Government applies the waiver, only the latter tax will apply.
The overall impact of the modernization program of CENACE on the performance of the electricity sector,
however, goes beyond what is reflected in the cost-benefits analysis. Improvements in the management and
operation of the WEM would lead to a projected reduction of transmission losses from 4.5 percent in 1999
to 3.8 percent in 2009. The improvements will also facilitate the competitive growth of transactions in the
WEM, and make it feasible to meet the growing demand for electricity (annual growth rate of around 6
percent according to CONELEC) at a lower cost over the next 10 years. As shown in Table 1, prices at
the importing nodes are expected to decline from US$/MWh 62.68 in 2001 to US$/MWh 43.46 in 2010.
3. Fiscal Impact of the reforms in the electricity sector
The reforms of the electricity sector supported by the Project will create a favorable environment for
increased private participation in the sector and are expected to have a substantial positive impact on the
finances of the Government of Ecuador. The main sources of additional revenues for the Government will
come from: (i) revenues from privatization (for the Solidarity Fund), granting of concessions and payments
of taxes of privatized firms; (ii) payment of dividends to the extent that the Government maintains partial
ownership in the enterprises; (iii) relief of fiscal burden from loss-making enterprises; and (iv) payments of
taxes by new investors in the sectors over the next 10 years. These fiscal benefits should be substantial and
will more than compensate the short-term impacts of the transactions (e.g., debt restructuring and liabilities
of sector enterprises) and the assumption by the Government of environmental liabilities existing in the
firms prior to their transfer to the private investors.
Fiscal Impact of the privatization program in the electricity sector
The Government program to modernize and privatize the electricity sector includes the sale of up to 51
percent to private investors and up to 10 percent to workers, of the shares owned by the Fondo de
Solidaridad in the generation, transmission and distribution companies. It also includes the option for local
governments to sell their shares to the private investors. In the case of EMELEC, the transaction will
include the granting of a concession, and the sale of assets, whose proceeds will be used to pay
accumulated debt of the company with the Government (of around US$ 100 millions).
The Government has announced the sale of 17 distribution companies regrouped in two packages (Sierra
and Costa, except Guayaquil) in a public international auction that would take place before the end of
2001. So far three companies have signed up for the public auction: Argentina's Pecom Energia SA,
owned by the oil company Perez Companc SA, AES Corp., the biggest U.S. power plant developer, and
Uni6n Electrica Fenosa SA, Spain's third-largest power company. The Government has announced the
sale of the transmission company (Transelectric) through an international competitive bidding that should
take place during the first quarter of 2002. It also plans to sell the six generation companies by the end of
the first half of 2002, but it has still to define a privatization strategy for these enterprises. In particular, it
remains to be decided whether Hidropaute and Hidrogoyan will be included in the list of firms to be
privatized and whether they would be merged with Paute-Mazar and San Francisco, respectively. The final
decisions on these issues will affect the expected revenues from privatization.
- 61 -



While it is still too early to estimate the value of proceeds from privatization and granting of the concession
that will go to the central Government and to the local authorities, based on a conservative base case
scenario (using historical values), the Government could expect to obtain US$354 million in income taxes
over the next 10 years from the privatized companies, and the concessioned EMELEC. Furthermore, since
the Fondo de Solidaridad will maintain partial ownership in the privatized companies, it will also expect to
receive yearly dividends, which could amount over 10 years to US$382 millions (CONAM, 2001).
A successful privatization program in the electricity sector will have a significant fiscal impact, beyond the
numbers already indicated, because it will decrease the current expenses of the Government, in terms of
general subsidies to the loss-making companies, and the partial assumption of their commercial debt. One
can easily picture the magnitude of the expected savings from transferring the companies to the private
sector -- while implementing a tariff schedule that will bring the average cost to its economic value by
end-2002 -- by considering that annual losses of distribution companies reached US$134 million in 2000,
and payment arrears to the generation and transmission companies accumulated to US$279 million in that
same year before decreasing to US$170 million in recent months, because of a mandatory repayment plan
imposed by the Government. It is expected that with the privatization of the distribution sector, private
investors will assume the remaining balance of this commercial debt. Increased efficiency in the operation
of the firms in private hands should prevent the building up of new arrears in the payment of commercial
transactions on the MEM, assuming that tariff adjustment brings prices up to economic costs,
Private investors will also assume the balance of the distributio-i companies' external debt (mostly from
Quito's and Manabi's companies), which does not exceed US$40 millions. The external debt of INECEL in
the generation and transmission segments was much more significant reaching a total of US$971 millions.
In 1999, this debt was allocated among the newly constituted generation and transmission companies, in
proportion to the value of their assets. As in the case of distribution, private investors in the generation and
transmission segment of the industry are expected to assume the remaining balance of the debt and will
make the corresponding payments to the Ministry of Economy, which will in turn pay international
creditors.
Economic impact of additional investment by the private sector in the electricity sector
The successful implementation of the Government's reforms to attract private investors in a more
competitive environment will be key to ensure that necessary investments will materialize to enable the
sector to respond to the demand that increases at an average of around 6 percent per year. Based on the
expansion plan for the sector approved by CONELEC, additional investment of about US$3.1 billion will
be needed over the next ten years to satisfy the increase in demand, of which US$2.2 billion will be needed
in generation, US$0.25 billion in transmission and US$0.65 billion in distribution. Assuming that the flow
of additional resources in the electricity sector is evenly distributed over the next 10 years, annual
investment in the economy will increase by US$305 million between 2001 and 2010. This represents 10
percent of total investment in the economy in 2001 (US$3.2 billion, according to the Central Bank of
Ecuador).
Telecommunications
Financial Rate of Return.
Rural Services. The new telecommunications legislation permits a special levy on end-user services and
net international settlements, which is to be earmarked for the fund FODETEL to subsidize the expansion
of telecommunications services in rural and other under-serviced areas, without creating a charge against
- 62 -



the Government budget. CONATEL will award concessions for rural service provision to the companies
that bid the minimum subsidy for the aggregate number of telephones in the bid. To calculate these
subsidies, we have used regional averages in this analysis, using the examples of Chile, Peru, and
Guatemala. Exact numbers will depend on the investors perception of the investment opportunity.
New Taxes. As new companies offer more services in Ecuador, they will pay taxes to the Government.
The analysis estimates that the new companies will pay income tax at the prevailing rate. In our analysis,
we calculated the amount that PCS companies will pay to the Treasury in income tax. We also calculated
the amount that the Rural companies will pay to the Treasury for income tax.
Economic Rate of Return TERR)
Rural. In order to calculate the ERR for the rural telecommunications component of the project the
estimated consumer surplus from rural telephone calls was added to the financial revenues generated by the
operators. The literature suggests that a reasonable assumption for the price elasticity of demand of rural
telephony services in Latin America is around -0.5 (Saunders et al, 1994). This price elasticity parameter
was used to infer a linear demand curve starting from the initial level of predicted demand, and on this basis
the consumer surplus generated at the predicted level of demand was estimated. In some respects, this could
be regarded as an over-estimate in the sense that there is the implicit assumption that all of the telephone
calls generated as a result of the installation of rural telephones would not have otherwise been made. On
the other hand, this approach could be regarded as an under-estimate to the extent that it does not take into
account the benefits accruing to the parties receiving the telephone call.
Results. Table 3 below shows the results of the economic and financial rate of return calculations.
Table 3: Financial Analysisummary: Telecommunications Comionent
Present Value of Flows (US$Millions)             Fiscal Impact Fiscal Impact
Taxes
Economic Analysis                Financial Analysis
Telecommunications Rural telephones: NPV=$1 1. lm  NPV= $1.0 m.
Components                                                         NPV= $45.2m NPV=$46.8m
US$7.91 m         Rural telecenters (PCs):                                       No subsidies from
($4.9 m WB        NPV- $3.7m (1)                   NPV= $0.5 m                   the Treasury(2)
loan)
(1) For consumer surplus calculation, we assumed US$1.50/hour as the value to consumers of the use
of PCs, equivalent to a 6 mninute long distance national phone call at US$0.25/minute
(2) The rural development fund (FODETEL) will provide US$4.1 Sm to the investors to carry out the rural
program.
Main Assumptions:
Rural Operator:
The rural operator will run 166 public offices, that include on average three public telephones and 10 PCs
in each. The services offered will be telephone service, fax, PC use, Internet Access, E-mail, File
Transfers, printing, and training services.
- 63 -



Public Telephony
Traffic per day: 40 minutes per line, average
Price per minute: US$0.15 for year one, grows to US$0.20 in year six, stays at that level for the rest of the
period.
Cash expenses: US$300 per line/year
Satellite expenses: US$0.10 per minute
Depreciation period: 10 years
Financing: interest: 12 percent, amortization 10 years
Rural Fund fees: 1 percent over net revenue
Lines served: 498 (8 percent of total)
Investment: US$4,000/telephone (50 percent financed by the rural fund, 50 percent by operator)
Telecenters (PCs)
Usage per day: 4.5 hours/PC
Price per hour of use: US$1.00
Expenses, operational, cash: US$10,000/Telecenter/year
Satellite expenses: US$300/month/Telecenter
Depreciation period: five years
Replacement of computers: every five years
Investment: US$18,000/Telecenter for 10 PCs, including proportion of VSAT connectivity
Subsidy from Fund: US$9,000/Telecenter for 10 PCs, including VSAT.
Total number of PCs: 1,660
Roll out plan: 553 per year in three years.
Video Conference facilities:
Classroom for 20 students
Video Screen 50 inches
Telephone return facilities and small PABX equipped with 20 telephones
Cost per facility: US$ 10,000 (including proportional cost of VSAT)
Subsidy from the Fund: US$10,000
Additional revenue stream from private use of facilities not included in this analysis. The main purpose of
the facilities is to train teachers through a distance education program.
Taxes:
Income tax rate: 28 percent
ICT-based Business Development Centers for MSBs
The ICT-based business development services pilot, known as Ecuador MicroNet, aims to demonstrate in
Ecuador the commercial viability and development impact of greater "connectivity" between lower- and
higher-income markets, and how to substantially boost MSBs client outreach with financial sustainability
of ICT-based business development services. The MicroNet network would consist of 8 community-based
business development centers, all of which would be in smaller secondary towns and rural areas, and a hub
located in either Quito or Guayaquil.
- 64 -



Initial total capital costs for this network are estimated at US$2.4 million, of which: (A) US$1.6 million
(67 percent) would cover the physical development of the centers; and (B) US$0.8 million (33 percent)
would finance the development and updating of ICT local content in MicroNet services and its delivery
system, staff and management skills training, technical support for the ICT network, quality assurance, and
a client voucher program to increase the awareness of and promote ICT-based business development
services. Bank financing would support 100 percent of the cost of part B for technical expertise, client
incentives and dissemination activities, which has strong externalities and important risk mitigation effects
for the pilot. Most of the costs of physical development of the pilot would be supported by the private
partner group would cov'er 100 percent of the costs of leasehold improvements for facilities of the centers
and 70 percent of the cost of ICT hardware, software, furniture and fixtures, with the Bank Loan covering
the remaining 30 percent pari passu.
An important goal of MicroNet as a pilot is to provide a positive overall rate of return through sound
service pricing and maximum cost efficiency of operations. MicroNet's main design parameters target will
include: (1) reaching financial breakeven by the end of year two (2003); (2) achieving a positive net
income of revenues by the end of year four (2005) (expected to approximate 5 percent of revenues); and (3)
pay VAT and income taxes to the government as per business regulations. To accomplish this, service
prices to be paid by clients would be set to fully cover direct delivery costs (including cost of goods sold,
employee expense, facilities expense, and general administrative expense). These are expected to be
affordable for MSBs, amounting to an estimated 0.5-1.5 percent of sales. At the same time, due to its new
and quite experimental nature, the cost of development and updating needed to provide micro- and small
business-appropriate value added through the provision of ICT local content, adaptation of hardware and
software, and skills training would be covered separately as a research and development cost supported by
the Bank's loan.
Ecuador MicroNet services would, subject to completion of the business plan, be expected to support some
12,000 microentrepreneurs each year at full operation (end year two) by (i) providing basic entry-level
business skills training, information technology training and distance learning on microbusiness issues; (ii)
making accessible modem traditional communications (phone, fax and photocopying) and marketing
outreach tools (advertising, packaging and labeling) with coaching assistance; and (iii) offering PC-based
workstations, software and coaching for more advanced microbusinesses to expand entrepreneurial
knowledge, prepare strategies on how to grow their businesses, solve common problems in production,
finance/credit and marketing, and begin to build networks and carry out electronic commerce. MSBs
development impact is expected to be substantial and manifest itself in changes in MSBs practices (new
products, higher quality products, new or lower cost sources of production inputs, keeping books, etc.),
new client bases in higher income markets, and higher rates of employment and profitability.
The involvement of the Government and Bank financing would be justified by the expected benefits which
MicroNet would generate beyond those appropriated by its private sponsors and clientele. These would
mainly involve expanding: (i) broad public awareness of the development value of ICT; (ii) private
participation in creating ICT applications and local content for lower-income groups; (iii) extension of ICT
services outside of the two metropolitan areas; and (iv) increased competition in the local ICT services
market at reasonable prices. It would also engage other segments of the private sector toward the
alleviation of poverty by drawing upon the capabilities of business-oriented NGOs, such as CORPEI,
ASOEXPEBLA, and Camara de Industrias de Cuenca, which have substantive skills and business
interests in the success of the microbusiness sector, and provide new opportunities for local ICT providers
of internet services, programming and local content to reach new markets.
- 65 -



Main Assumptions:
See above text.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
See above text.
- 66 -



Annex 4a: GEF ALTERNATIVE: PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, INCREMENTAL COSTS AND
COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
I. Introduction
This annex summarizes the: (i) current electric sector policy environment, and status and plans for rural
electrification via grid extension and other means; (ii) barriers to improvement in electricity load
management and end-use efficiency, and barriers to rural electrification in dispersed and isolated areas; (iii)
expected benefits of the GEF Alternative Project, (iv) cost-benefit and risk analysis for the project; and (v)
detailed GEF incremental cost analysis.
The GEF Altemative is designed to help address several deficiencies which are usually not incorporated
directly into power sector reform programs: Off-grid electrification: (i) lack of an off-grid rural
electrification strategy including market information and proven models for implementation; (ii) lack of an
institutional capacity to promote, design, execute, and lack of private participation for implementing
off-grid power supply; (iii) lack of coordinated funding strategy and clear multi-year budgets; and (iv)
insufficient capacity to address technical and O&M needs for off-grid renewable power supply. Energy
Efficiency: (i) absence of an energy efficiency policy and integration of efficiency concems into reform
strategy; (ii) insufficient distribution utility and end user incentives and motivation; (iii) lack of institutional
capacity in the public sector for policy, promotion and coordination of efficiency initiatives; and (iv) lack of
technical and financial capacity in the private sector to assess opportunities and undertake efficiency
investments.
The GEF Alternative will be developed in the framework of the power reform and privatization program, in
order to ensure that the above issues are not left out of the reform agenda. It will be implemented by the
Department of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency (DEREE) of the Ministry of Energy and Mines
(MEM), and the power sector regulator and indicative planning entity CONELEC. The GEF Alternative
will pursue private involvement and financing - including distribution utilities, energy service companies,
equipment manufacturers and dealers, financial institutions, NGOs, and consumers, and will be based on
thorough market assessments and beneficiary consultation and participation.
II. Overview
Energy and Electricity System Characteristics in Ecuador
Ecuador still depends heavily on traditional fuels including wood, charcoal and agricultural residues (49
percent of end use consumption), in addition to its use of oil products (fuel oil, LPG and gasoline -- 34
percent), and electricity (16 percent). In urban areas and rural areas, these shares differ greatly due to both
much higher average incomes and fuel availability. For urban vs rural areas, respectively, these fuel shares
are: oil products 57 percent vs 20 percent, for electricity 35 percent vs 5 percent, and for biomass fuels 8
percent vs 75 percent. Furthermore, the average use of electricity per customer in rural areas is also much
lower, averaging 96 kWh/month (in 1993) vs 193 kWh/month in urban areas (Source: ESMAP,
"Ecuador-Energy Pricing, Poverty and Social Mitigation," August 1994).
Poverty and Rural Electrification The degree of poverty in Ecuador has important implications for the
rural electrification effort. Rural cash incomes are very low, unemployment high and access to basic public
and social services inadequate. Malnutrition (39 percent), infant mortality and maternal mortality are very
high for the lowest income groups. Economic problems in 1998 - 1999 significantly increased the general
problems of the poor, such as poverty, deferred medical attention, medical coverage, etc.
- 67 -



Energy price subsidies have been an important part of the GOE's safety net, but given the extremely high
cost (estimated at US$400 million in 1998), the Government cut these sharply in 1998, to an estimated
US$34 million, only to have them increase again in 1999 due to rising oil prices and exchange-rate
depreciation (Source: World Bank, "Ecuador: Crisis, Poverty and Social Services," June 2000, pg. 82).
The Bono Solidario became the backbone of the GOE's social protection system in 1998, when it was
initiated to alleviate hardship when the GOE eliminated the subsidy on cooking gas, electricity and other
fuels. In 1999, some 1.3 million households received this support, at a cost of about US$190 million, with
household payments varying from $8-s15 per month (depending on period in question and impacts of
inflation the value of the Bono may have dropped by half). Coverage is much higher in urban than in rural
areas. Rural electrification is a policy priority of the GOE and will be supported by the Project in a
manner which seeks to minimize subsidies and emphasizes sound planning, implementation and sustainable
operation.
Electrification Plans Ecuador's population was estimated to be 12.4 million in 1999, and is projected to
grow to about 15.2 million in 2010. Electricity reaches around 96 percent of the urban population, but
only 55 percent of the rural population (or about 80 percent of the total population). CONELEC has
prepared a 2000-09 National Electrification Plan to extend coverage through grid extension to an additional
750,000 households, at a cost of about US$537 million of which the GOE contribution through FERUM is
estimated at US$400 million. The average cost per household connection was estimated at US$361 in 2001
(latest approvals for 2001 average only US$77 per household), growing to US$824 in 2009. (Source:
Anexo 7.06, "Plan de Electricaci6n Rural y Urbano Marginal," Plan de Electrificaci6n 2000-2009,
CONELEC). This increase is due to higher average costs per household given location and load density.
These plans would increase coverage to 98 percent of the urban population and 65 percent of the rural
population (or about 85 percent of the total population).
The Fund for Electrification of Rural/Urban Marginal population (FERUM) is the primary source of GOE
financing for expanded electrification. CONELEC is responsible for reviewing and approving the
applications to this fund, which are submitted by "Consejos Provinciales" in coordination with
municipalities and local electric distribution companies. Weighting criteria reflect both performance and
social objectives. (See: CONELEC, "Normas Legales Relacionadas con El FERUM," Oct. 2000). The
source of these funds is primarily the 10 percent charge on commercial and industrial electricity consumers,
and 5 percent of the profits (not reinvested) eamed by the GOE from the state-owned electricity enterprises.
Distribution companies (which are in the process of being privatized) would have the primary responsibility
for grid extension electrification. It is unclear specifically how concession contracts establish the obligation
to participate in such social electrification.
Even under these plans, however, much of the population in remote areas would remain unserved. This
population historically has used low quality but still relatively expensive altematives to electricity, for
example, kerosene, candles and batteries, for lighting. Data from 1992-93 (ESMAP, "Ecuador. Precios de
la Energia," 1994) indicated kerosene was used for lighting in 64 percent to 73 percent of households in
rural areas. While kerosene is reportedly unavailable today, the rural population has substituted a similar
fuel called "kerosene," but which is actually a mixture of gasoline and diesel. Available information does
indicate the likelihood that: (a) in addition to capital subsidies for electrification, a significant part of the
market may require operating cost subsidies, and/or would potentially be served more cost-effectively by
very small-scale low cost systems (e.g., portable PV/lamp systems) suitable for remote locations; and (b)
the GOE will need a diverse and flexible strategy to deliver and sustain rural off-grid electricity services,
for example, by relying on some form of concession approach in higher potential areas and local
(community, non-governmental organization, private) and public sector collaboration (e.g., poverty
programs) in poorer and remote areas.
- 68 -



Energy Efficiency - Impact of Electricity Prices and Economic Conditions Historically, electricity
and most fuel prices in Ecuador have been highly subsidized, and attitudes engendered by this experience
appear engrained and politically very sensitive. The GOE has made major changes in electricity pricing
policies recently as part of the electricity sector reform process. Nonetheless, certain fuels remain highly
subsidized. For example, LPG prices are roughly 20 percent of actual cost -- at US$0.35 per kg vs a
reference of US$1.02 in Argentina (source: Ministerio de Energia y Minas, "Sector Energetico
Ecuatoriano, " June 2000). This price differential may be resulting in a shift from electric water heating in
residential applications to LPG.
The most important factors affecting the electricity consumer recently have been:
*   Economic Factors: very high rates of inflation, leading to devaluation followed by dollarization;
negative growth in the gross national product (-7.3 percent) for 1998-2000.
*   Electricity Price Adjustments: increasing from an average nationally of US$0.0249 per kWh (after
devaluation US$0.0428) to the current US$0.062 per kWh, with an additional increase of currently 4
percent per month, toward economnic cost of about US$0.10 per kWh, that will depend on fuel prices.
(Source: CONELEC, Various Tables "Analisis de Los Precios Medios, " Dec. 2000; and "Situaci6n
del Sector Electrico del Ecuador, " Oct. 2000).
Electricity Supply Characteristics The principal fuels used and operating characteristics of the power
system in Ecuador can be seen in the table below. Hydroelectric generation installed capacity, 54.3 percent
of the total, is able to generate on a seasonal basis at high levels, producing in 2000 an estimated 75
percent of total gross energy. However, a substantial portion of this capacity has no storage, and therefore
is unavailable during the dry season, and dependence on thermal generation during droughts increases.
With such a large hydroelectric component, much of which is non-storage or run-of-the-river, the
environmental impacts of electricity use is significantly diminished. Nonetheless, on the margin, there is
still a high degree of dependence on diesel generation, primarily for peaking needs. Many of the old
thermal plants have poor operating efficiency and distribution systems suffer from high levels of technical
and commercial losses in distribution, estimated currently at about 22 percent. Furthermore, a large part of
additional generating capacity in the 10-year indicative expansion plan is thermal-based.
Table 1. Ecuador Power System Characteristics (2000)
Category/                  Hydroelectric      Thermal        Thermal          Total
Plant Type                                    (Diesel)       (Fuel Oil)
Production Gwh (gross)      3,975             853.5          474.5            5,303
Percent                     75%               16.1%          8.9%
InstaRed MVs                1,693             984            440              3,117
Percent                     54.3%             31.6%          14.1%
Fuel Used                                     Diesel         Bunker
Gallons (000)                                 26,521         69,493
Maximum Demand (MWs)                                                          1,841
System Losses (%)                                                             22%
Source: CONELEC, "Estadistica del Sector Elctrico Ecuatoriano, " Jan.-June 2000.
Electricity Demand CONELEC's growth projections ("Plan de Electrifcacion Rural 2000-2009, Oct.
2000') for electricity consumption are subject to a high degree of uncertainty due to both the recent
downturn in economic activity and higher electricity prices (neither of which is incorporated into the
projection). Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is forecast to grow 4.9 percent per year. The projection does
incorporate the effects of population growth and urbanization, increased average consumption as income
grows, and increased rates of electrification. This projection is used as a basis for sensitivity analyses in
this Annex. The average national electricity growth rate in this case is 5.7 percent, with 6.7 percent growth
- 69 -



in household use and 10.5 percent in industry. Also important for energy efficiency considerations, is
regional diversity. For example, using 1993 data to disaggregate the forecasts, industry use accounted for
58.5 percent on the Coast vs 41.5 percent in the Sierra, and commercial use was 63 percent on the Coast
versus 37 percent in the Sierra.
Table 2 shows the overall market estimate for potential electrification for households. The market has been
subdivided into those low and high density provinces, respectively, which are likely to present more
uniform characteristics for electrification planning. That is, the higher density and more electrified areas
such as the Coast and some of the Sierra are likely to be logistically less difficult to reach and may have
higher ability to pay given access to commercial markets and employment opportunity. In order to obtain a
more refined rural off-grid electrification market estimate, pen-urban and other areas which are
cost-effective to electrify with grid electrification but which remain unserved, would need to be excluded.
Table 2. Ecuador Off-Grid Rural Electrification Market by Province
(Households)
Low-Density         Totals by Area         Not Electrified        Not electrified
Households         Fraction     No.       Fraction    No.
1,999      2,009       1999       1999        2009        2009
Amazon & Sierra
Bolivar             37,825      45,704      0.43       16,265      0.4         18,281
Napo                 16,513     19,952      0.55       9,082       0.52        10,375
Orellana            13,147      15,885      0.65       8,546       0.6          9,531
Morona              26,778      32,356      0.54       14,460      0.5         16,178
Sucumbios           25,375      30,661      0.63       15,986      0.58        17,783
Zamora Chinchipe    19,065      23,036      0.46       8,770       0.44        10,136
Pastaza             12,260      14,814      0.39       4,529       0.36         5,052
Galapagos            2,856       3,451     0.02          57      0.01             35
Zonas No. Delimited   14,935    18.046      0.48       7,169       0.47         8,482
Subtotals          168,108     203,122                84,864                  95,852
Higher-Density
Sierra & Coast
1,999      2,009       1999       1999        2009        2009
Azuay               124,738     150,718    0.15        18,711      0.1         15,072
Canar               44,400      53,647      0.26       11,544      0.2         10,729
Carchi              33,826      40,871      0.19       6,427       0.16        6,539
Chimboraza          63,965      77,288      0.25       15,991      0.2         15,458
Cotopaxi            86,341      104,324    0.12        10,361      0.05        5,216
El Oro              108,014     130,512    0.1         10,801      0.08        10,441
Guayas              659,797     797,220    0.1         65,980      0.07        55,805
Imbabura            66,453      80,294      0.22       14,620      0.18        14,453
Esmeraldas          83,442      100,821     0.36       30,039      0.32        32,263
Loja                88,664      107,132    0.33        29,259      0.29        31,068
Los Rios            131,257     158,596    0.39        51,190      0.35        55,509
Manabi              253,003     305,699    0.32        80,961      0.28        85,596
Pinchincha          470,589     568,604    0.09        42,353      0.07        39,802
Tuneurahua          89,606      108,269     0-06       5.376       0.04        4,331
Subtotals          2,304,096   2,783,996              393,614                 382282
Overall Totals      2,472,204   2,987,118              478,478                 478,134
Source: CONELEC, "Plan de Electrificaci6n del Ecuador -Periodo 2000-2009, " Octubre 2000, pg. 157.
- 70 -



III. Barriers to Overcome
Energy Efficiency Barriers
Due to a history of subsidies in the energy sector, the efficiency of both electricity and other fuels use in
Ecuador is very poor. This is exhibited in both the inefficient consumption habits of end users and in the
existing lighting, appliances and equipment in homes, buildings and factories. These characteristics
continue in the technology and equipment available in the marketplace and the lack of institutional
infrastructure in government and private sector institutions which could address this issue. A few studies
and program proposals over the years such as the 1994 INECEL study of energy efficiency opportunities in
the electricity sector, and an energy audit program supported by USAID (and others), have had minimal
impact, due largely to low domestic energy prices, lack of institutional commitment and lack of supportive
policies.
With recent changes in Ecuador's electricity sector policy leading to reforms in the power sector and
associated rationalization of electricity prices, an appropriate cost structure for electricity is being put in
place, which should gradually motivate energy users to change attitudes regarding electricity and associated
equipment purchases. Nevertheless, there remains important constraints to substantial changes in energy
consumption and end-use equipment decisions. These constraints include:
- long-engrained habits and attitudes;
* high first-cost of energy efficient equipment;
3 absence of specific tariff incentives such as time of use tariffs for industry;
3 lack of a general understanding in all end-use components of energy costs and how these can be
cost-effectively reduced;
e lack of availability of more efficient major electricity using appliances such as refrigerators and air
conditioners, and lack of standards and efficiency labeling for these equipment;
3 lack of institutional capacity to develop a strategy to address efficiency needs including critical
stakeholder involvement in manufacturing, the electricity industry, equipment suppliers, and consumer
groups;
3 lack of technical understanding and capacity in those designing and operating more efficient major
energy consuming systems in commerce/buildings and industry; and finally
* continuing subsidies in some fuels such as LPG, the primary commercial fuel used for household
cooldng and increasingly for water heating.
Rural Electrification Barriers
The scope for rural electrification in Ecuador remains extensive and is particularly problematic to address
due to the large segment of the rural population with dispersed settlement pattems which are unfeasible to
connect economically via the tradition means of grid extension. The financial motivation of distribution
utilities to serve this rural population by altemative means is further reduced by the very low-income of this
population. Furthermore, this group often does not enjoy other complementary infrastructure such as roads
and communication, potable water and easy access to health and education. Institutional capacity for
supporting either utility managed or publicly initiated electrification for dispersed and isolated populations
is weak at both the national and local levels.
- 71 -



The GOE through the MEM has begun to address some of the electricity needs for this rural population
through initiatives aimed at public services such as health clinics, schools and community centers. Some
US$1.9 million in funding has recently been made available for initial efforts to install PV systems in
public services and micro-hyropower schemes in remote frontier and Amazonian regions (Corporaci6n
Andina de Fomento, CAF). A prospective electrification initiative under the management of the Ministry of
Defense (MOD) involves plans for the provision of electrification through PV installations in the frontier
areas of Peru. This plan is not at this time coordinated with other national electrification plans or
programs, and is potentially higher in unit cost and its compatibility and impact on the PROMEC and GEF
Alternative described here is unknown. It may also be difficult to ensure sustainability of the MOD
program since it is outside of the institutional strengthening framework of the PROMEC project and GEF
Alternative.
Several key constraints appear likely to impede rural electrification initiatives. These include:
*   low income of the rural population and dispersed settlement over a large geographic area;
*   high first-cost of renewable energy systems such as photovoltaic systems for rural electricity supply;
*   lack of established commercial enterprises addressing such markets, and lack of associated technical
capacity at the rural level;
- lack of financing and credit systems to facilitate purchase of such systems;
*   lack of financial motivation and regulatory obligations for distribution utilities to serve dispersed
populations;
*   inappropriate scale and cost-structure for distribution utilities to cost-effectively implement small-scale
dispersed electricity supply;
* poor understanding of the rural market and consumers' willingness to pay;
*   weak technical capacity for defining appropriate renewable systems for the diverse and very low
income markets;
*   weak institutional capacity for development and implementation of an overall electrification strategy
for isolated (non-grid connected) areas; and
*   lack of financing sources and strategy for expansion of electrification beyond grid connection.
Pilot projects and demonstrations are important mechanisms, along with the development of an overall
electrification plan and administrative structure, through which the MEM can develop experience with
delivery mechanisms, financial administration and maintenance, and private vendor and distribution utility
participation. The GEF/WB project will help to define and fund pilots to meet these goals. Non-GEF
funding will be used to finance non-renewable energy systems as possible options.
Strategy to Remove Barriers
Energy Efficiency In order to address the barriers above, the GEF/WB project will proceed on several
fronts: (a) assist the GOE/MEM efforts to develop an effective public information and motivational effort
regarding reducing energy cost via improved energy efficiency, and support improvement in institutional
capacity to undertake this overall effort; (b) support implementation of financial incentives through
improved tariff design for load management, development of innovative utility and/or other financing
mechanisms for demand side management (DSM) investments, and/or regulation by CONELEC; (c)
support technical capacity development through training and information transfer in the commercial and
industrial sectors, and among energy service firms, as well as support commercialization of advisory
services and expansion of associated efficiency financing alternatives (such as ESCOs); (d) develop an
- 72 -



implementation strategy which assists and motivates "strategic partners" among key end user groups (e.g.,
industry, commerce, architects, consumer groups), and service and financial delivery mechanisms such as
distribution utilities, ESCOs and equipment suppliers; (e) address equipment and appliance standards
issues through informational (e.g., labeling) and information transfer programs (e.g., international norms)
to upgrade the efficiency of new equipment; and (f) support key demonstration projects that would test
innovative delivery mechanisms for energy efficiency and load management (in particular for compact
fluorescent lighting), as well as new energy efficiency technology not currently available in Ecuador.
Demonstration projects will verify results to motivate replication, and develop key relationships for
sustaining and expanding these initiatives.
Rural Electrification The barriers to rural electrification cited above are difficult to overcome and require
that this project must necessarily be part of a long-term commitment within Ecuador to provide rural
isolated electricity services. An implementation plan and operational strategy is also required which is not
only compatible with the low income and dispersed characteristics of the target population, but also with
the capacities and financial motivation of distribution utilities, equipment vendors and potential
concessionaires. The strategy must be flexible to adapt to circumstances and sustainable within the
expected capacity of both current project supporters such as the MEM and end users and participating
local groups.
The Project intends to address these barriers through support for: (a) strengthening the capacity of MEM
and CONELEC including through development of a national rural electrification plan, and supporting
regional and local entities who will be implementing partners; (b) assisting MEM and CONELEC in the
definition of an appropriate funding mechanism for the off grid electrification program, which will ensure
the financial sustainability of off grid electrification; (c) performing a diagnosis of the status of rural
electrification, evaluation of institutional requirements for electrification and potential models for
implementation, and evaluation of appropriate technology solutions (e.g., size, cost and level of
technology); (d) determining the potential market for electricity supply in dispersed areas, particularly
current energy use patterns and the ability to pay, and estimating the related subsidy and financing
requirements, (e) determining policy and market constraints which affect availability and cost of rural
electrification equipment, the quality and reliability of equipment, and through technical assistance,
developing remedial proposals; (f) developing and promoting institutional and dissemination approaches as
part of an overall strategy, for example:
(i)  develop delivery options including subconcessions and other approaches tailored to local
markets;
(ii) support initial stakeholder involvement to enhance market development and to improve
sustainability projects;
(iii) develop a sound subsidy policy, along with adequate user payments and financing activities to
not only ensure electrification, but also sustainability;
(iv) coordinate with other development initiatives and infrastructure programs,
(v) promote income producing activities; and
(vi) define financing options and a long-term financing strategy.
And finally, (g) implementation of demonstration projects tailored to market conditions and replication to
ensure expansion and sustainability. It is recognized that the diversity of the rural market makes it
necessary to examine a variety of models. For example, the concession model is likely to be well-adapted
to higher potential areas where markets are expected to expand and O&M cost recovery is relatively high.
For other areas where extreme poverty requires high levels of subsidies for capital and O&M costs, and
which are less compatible with commercial vehicles, the project will enlist participation of local
- 73 -



organizations such as NGOs, churches and community groups to lower costs and create a sustainable
implementation framework. The project will also support policy and technical barrier removal for certain
renewable energy options such as small hydro and wind to accelerate and expand their market penetration.
Organizational Arrangements for Project Implementation
Energy Efficiency. MEM will be the primary agency responsible for executing the energy efficiency
component of the PROMEC project. CONAM will have responsibility for financial administration and
procurement for project funded technical assistance and hardware. CONELEC will have a parallel
responsibility to that of MEM in its role as the principal regulatory agency for the electric power industry.
MEM and its Department of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency (DEREE) have three staff devoted
to informational and promotional related efforts involving energy efficiency and one staff working on norms
and standards. It is clear that MEM is a highly motivated and productive organization. Nevertheless,
MEM as presently staffed, also appears substantially overburdened to carry out its existing responsibilities,
let alone additional duties imposed by this Project. Substantial outside interest and pressure also exists for
MEM to give greater support and attention to energy efficiency at this time, due to both peak electricity
demand exceeding supply, and due to the need to mitigate the higher cost of energy as prices reach
economic levels.
It is recommended that MEM efficiency program staff be reorganized into an expanded unit with
responsibility assigned for implementation of the PROMEC efficiency activities. The addition of a
minimum of two additional positions is required. These would have lead responsibility to address: (i) the
institutional, economic analysis, utilities regulatory incentives and market analysis aspects of the project,
and (ii) the technical assistance, training, ESCO promotional and pilot project aspects of the project.
Addition of only these two positions is sufficient by taking advantage of the significant ongoing activities of
four other staff of MEM at this time, and by the provision of a substantial component of local and
intemational consultant support by the project. Furthermore, CONELEC is staffed in its planning and
tariff regulatory units with professional staff who will work as additional counterparts for the regulatory
and tariff incentives aspects of the project.
It is expected to be necessary for MEM to add additional staff at a rate of 1 per year (beginning in year 2)
over the project life as the extemal support diminishes. It is noted however, that given the focus of the
project on sustainability and replication through distribution utilities, incentives created through
CONELEC regulation, strategic partnerships and capacity strengthening of end-users in industry and
commerce and ESCO support, together with normns and standards, that a less centralized institutional
capacity may be needed in the future.
Off-grid Rural Electrification. MEM will also be the primary agency responsible for executing the rural
electrification program. CONAM will have responsibility for financial administration and procurement for
project funded technical assistance and hardware. CONELEC will have a parallel responsibility to that of
MEM in CONELEC's lead role to prepare the national plan for rural electrification. CONELEC will also
take the lead in with acquiring and utilizing the GIS planning tools funded by the project, with substantial
participation by MEM.
MEM and its Department of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency (DEEA) does not now have the
organizational structure nor staffing to effectively meet either its existing or new responsibilities imposed
by this Project. Rationalization of the MEM organization for off-grid electrification should come as part of
the plan and strategy preparation exercise funded by the PROMEC project. However, in the interim one to
two year period, it is essential that MEM creates an organizational structure to effectively administer this
- 74 -



Project, with support by consultants, contractors and by CONELEC and CONAM. Nonetheless, it is clear
that MEM must set up an organizational unit and devote at least two to three new staff positions to lead
project implementation. It is not necessary that these positions be exclusively devoted to this Project. For
example, MEM has responsibilities for the US$1.9 million CAF program for public service electrification
and small-hydro development.  These functions would fit well into this organizational structure.
Furthermore, it would be better if MEM did not create a project-specific organizational structure since
many of these functions are integrally related to other activities of MEM and should be coordinated.
IV. Benefits
Energy Efficiency
The EE program will result in significant reductions in electricity end-use and associated reductions in
GHG emissions. This will occur initially at small levels through the project's demonstration activities, and
expand substantially through project related and independent actions throughout the residential, commercial
and industrial sectors. These savings should be sustainable as a result of market based electricity prices for
all consumers except the lowest consumption class in the residential sector, and sustainable for this latter
sector as the more efficient technology, particularly for lighting, is introduced and demonstrated, and
possibly supported through gradually decreasing financial incentives.  The project will promote
dissemination of energy efficiency knowledge throughout the economy, and creation of energy efficiency
service capacity. The project will also promote direct distribution utility participation in this effort through
proposed incentives including rate of return and tariff incentives, and financing institution involvement. A
secondary benefit of the project will also assist the commercial and industrial sectors in reducing their costs
of production and achieving a more competitive cost structure versus international competitors. Industrial
production and energy efficiency investments go hand in hand, and the project will help to stimulate both.
A complementary benefit of electricity efficiency efforts will be improved efficiency in the use of other
fuels such as fuel oil and diesel in industry.
Projected net benefits or cost savings in present value terms and reduced CO emissions for an assumed 10
year project life plus replication period are described in Table 3. It is important to note that realized CO2
benefits will be variable due to dependence of Ecuador on hydroelectric generation. Future expansion plans
and economic dispatch of the system will determine what plants are actually used and to what degree.
Rural Electrification
The direct benefit of the project will be support for electrification for an estimated 2,800 systems, the
majority of which are for households. Some of these may serve a modest number of productive uses as
well. Systems will also be supplied for approximately 1,100 households using low-cost solar lanterns, and
100 public service installations in rural dispersed and isolated areas. Note that in this latter case, public
systems will be coordinated with rural telecommunications systems, in order that both have the benefit of
implementation and potential joint-concessions. These public systems are only those directly supported by
the project, that is, accomplished through the World Bank loan, GEF financial support and private
contributions. Substantial related assistance to the MEM in mobilization of other funding sources,
capacity development and technical assistance, is expected to lead to significant replication. In order for
this replication to occur, it is essential that the national plan and related financing strategy be successfully
developed. The implementation of the plan partially financed by the project will involve a number of key
areas, including institutional strengthening and technical capacity development in the private sector,
support for essential market studies and development of effective dissemination approaches, and design of
- 75 -



sound user contribution and subsidy policies, and developing a long-term financing strategy. These project
inputs will ensure replicability beyond the direct support targets of the project and sustainability of the
institutional structures and programs developed.
The project will directly contribute to improved living conditions in rural remote areas. A related indirect
impact will be to encourage reduced migration which might occur due to lack of high quality household
public services such as schools and health clinics, household lighting and power supply. It will directly
support some income producing activities and indirectly support income enhancement through contributions
to enhancing education, health and agricultural productivity. Due to the very low income of many rural
residents there is a limited ability to pay for new electricity service and correspondingly need for outside
contributions to capital costs. This will vary by area and the respective economic potential.
In the energy efficiency and rural electrification economic and financial analysis cases shown below, we
consolidate the results of the analysis of the pilot projects. In order to estimate the potential overall impact
of the project, this analysis addresses both the direct impacts of the pilot projects and moderate replication
of efficiency activities and electrification approaches, respectively.
Table 3. GEF Alternative Benefits - Summary of Base Case Results
Project Components           Benefit Measure                 CO Reduction in tons (a) (b)
Energy Efficiency            Net Economic
(NPV of Benefits)            Benefits (US$000)
US$42,795                      2,154,260 (10 years)
GEF Cost/Ton US$0.76
Overall Cost/Ton US$9.55
Rural Electrification        Electrified Households:
(NPV of Benefits)            3,950 households and            192,367 (10 years)
100 public service centers
electrified
NPV break-even (plus in-direct   GEF Cost/Ton US$2.68
benefits not calculated but at   Overall Cost/Ton US$20.96
DR= 12% for economic case   least equal to direct amounts).
(a) For energy efficiency, carbon dioxide conversion based on avoided thermal generation including
transmission losses of 10 percent; a factor of 3.06 kg CO, /kg diesel is used to calculate basic emissions
impacts.
(b) For rural electrification, the calculation is based on avoided small diesel generators for public service
uses and household lighting the most common fuel which is "kerosene" (diesel - gasoline blend).
V. Cost Benefit and Risk Analysis
Cost-Benefit Results. Cost-Benefit analysis has been carried out for subprojects and the overall project by
component (detailed calculations are in project files). For the energy efficiency component the full
implementation of the programs described is estimated to result in NPVs of benefits in the base case
ranging from US$42.8 million to US$17.3 million in the worst case, and US$186.7 million in the most
optimistic case. The high IRRs indicate excellent prospects for project replicability, once existing barriers
- 76 -



are overcome through the GEF Alternative. Note that in the base efficiency case we assume modest
continuation of the program implementation or replication; but we do not give the efficiency measures
credit for their impact on utility peak demand and decreased need for new capacity. For the rural
electrification component the NPV's of benefits range from -US$43,000 in the base case to US$500,000 for
the case where "kerosene" prices are raised by about 25 percent.
We have analyzed the impacts of capital costs, project lifetime, discount rates, project costs and market
demand levels. The tables 4 and 5 below summarize the information on NPVs.
Table 4. Economic and Financial Analysis - Energy Efficiency
Net Present Value of Flows (million US$)
Economic Analysis    Financial Analysis
Low       High         Low         High
NPV Benefits                  30.0       231          29.8        220.1
NPV Costs                     12.0       44.6          12.5        43.4
NPVofNetBenefits              17.3      186.7          17.4       176.7
IRR (%)                         80%        421%          88%        473%
Table 5. Economic and Financial Analysis - Rural Electrification
Net Benefits 10 Years (000 US$'s)
Economic Case                         Financial Case
Low               High                Low             High
Net Benefits                    -510               1,149             - 791              843
Note: Economic case: DR= 12 percent, Financial case: DR=15 percent, IVA=12 percent, Elect Tax7=30 percent.
These off-grid benefits do not include benefits of improved lighting, improved educational opportunity, etc. which
could easily double the benefit values. Unfortunately, data is too scarce to allow the quantification of these impacts
for Ecuador. High cases assume 25 percent decrease in PV and other capital costs and 25 percent increase in diesel
prices; and low cases 25 percent increase in capital costs and 25 percent decrease in diesel prices, respectively.
Results are extremely sensitive to assumptions.
Risk Analysis
(a) Subproject or Benefit Failure. This is defined as any situation that reduces the benefits of the project,
such as lower than expected energy savings or reduced number of households electrified. For
substantial reductions in the overall efficiency measure penetration rates (-50 percent), the benefits
remained positive with NPV of benefits of US$21.7 million, and EIRR of 128 percent. The greatest
uncertainty in the efficiency case is the degree of market penetration and unknown project-independent
impact of higher prices. In the off-grid electrification case, the high initial capital costs tend to make
- 77 -



delays in the project appear attractive. This anomaly is due to the high first cost and long-life of PV
equipment. Considering life-cycle costs, we see that for the large majority of cases, that is for 50 W
systems, the life-cycle costs of about US$9.29 (financial terms) are nearly equal to current lighting
expenditures. Thus economic benefits should roughly equal costs. Adding a factor for improved
quality of lighting, an amount generally considered to roughly equal this value, significantly increases
this benefit.
(b) Higher or lower system costs. Higher costs for efficiency measures had a major impact on the
economic benefits of the project. However, given the highly positive rates of return for this component,
increasing costs by 50 percent while reducing NPV substantially, still resulted in large and positive
returns of US$25.8 million and an EIRR of 63 percent. For off-grid electrification the most important
consideration is the potential impact of cost reductions which may occur as the volume of PV sales and
service increases. For a capital cost reduction of 25 percent, the NPV improves by US$900,000 in the
financial case, and in the economic case by US$803,000. In the case of rural electrification, a 25
percent cost reduction substantially improves the returns to the project, from an economic NPV of
-US$6,000 to US$510,000. Since cost reductions are expected as the project proceeds, and as the
market develops in Ecuador this is expected to be the direction of change. The effect of a similar
increase in cost is equivalent but in the opposite direction.
(d) Induced demand. In the off-grid rural electrification case, we improve the overall economic return of
the project if we include potential growth impact benefits of the project only where we assume cost
reductions or increased cost for substitute fuels. Likewise, this impact would be positive if we included
indirect impacts or the social benefits of improved lighting.
(e) Generation Capacity Savings: Efficiency measures particularly in the lighting area have potentially
large impacts on utility peak demand and likewise generation capacity requirements. We have
evaluated efficiency investments both with and without these credits to highlight the magnitude of these
benefits, and to reflect the initial uncertainty which is associated with projected savings from such
measures. In the base case for example, the affect of including capacity cost credits is to raise the base
NPV of US$42.8 million to US$83.9 million. The project has been designed to help measure the peak
demand reductions from efficiency measures, and to develop the means to support incorporation of
these in generation, transmission and distribution planning and investments.
VI. GEF - Incremental Cost Analysis
Implementing the electrical energy efficiency and rural electrification strategies described above requires
incremental costs, defined as the difference in the economic cost of the Baseline Situation and the GEF
Alternative, that produces global environmental benefits. This difference is proposed to be supported by a
GEF grant. Presented below are program descriptions for the energy efficiency and rural electrification
cases, respectively, and the associated GEF Alternative and respective Incremental Costs.
Baseline Scenario
Energy Efficiency In the absence of the GEF Alternative, Ecuador's electrical sector efficiency is
anticipated to improve slowly and only moderately even in the long-term. Power sector reform is leading to
introduction of market based electricity pricing; however, many historical patterns, structure and technical
constraints will limit efficiency improvements. New appliances, equipment and buildings being constructed
will not incorporate cost-effective energy efficiency potential due to higher first cost and lack of tariff
- 78-



incentives for load management, public infornation and technical knowledge.  Recent policy of
Government mandating a 15 percent reduction in their own electricity use indicates that efficiency is a high
priority and GOE responds to impending capacity shortages in the near-term. Nonetheless, many past
efficiency efforts have languished, such as Demand-Side Management (DSM) and promotional efforts of
distribution utilities, such as Empresa El&trica Quito, due to a lack of management interest and overall
poor financial performance on the part of the company. Impending privatization should change these
attitudes toward system efficiency, but will require external assistance to develop well-crafted regulatory
incentives and associated tariffs to promote utility investments and to assist end users to realize efficiency
potential. The baseline recognizes the existence of very limited energy service (ESCO-type) activities at
this time, but anticipates no significant growth in ESCOs without additional technical assistance,
innovative financing and contracting support, and development of markets by promoting utility, industrial
and commercial sector initiatives. The baseline introduces improvement in efficiency from largely price
induced actions, both in reducing the level of energy service by reduced household lighting (for example),
and in a modest shift to fluorescent versus incandescent lamps. The dependence of pilot projects largely on
private and end users for financing for hardware investments and for direct implementation, reflects the
projects strong assumption that greater price induced incentives do exist.
Under the Energy Efficiency Baseline Scenario: (a) public and technical information dissemination will
remain very limited; (b) financial incentives and financing for energy efficiency investment will be minimal
except for revised electricity pricing; (c) labeling and testing of appliances and equipment for energy
efficiency will not be introduced; (d) industry and commercial energy efficiency efforts will remain
fragmented and implemented only by the most effective firms; and (e) no utility industry end-use efficiency
programs will be developed and implemented.
GEF Energy Efficiency Alternative
The GEF Energy efficiency alternative relies essentially on private capital from consumers, banks, ESCOs
and electric distribution utilities for implementation. This is consistent with the view that energy efficiency
is highly profitable from a financial standpoint, but that it is constrained seriously by barriers as discussed
above.
The following outlines the major elements of the GEF Energy Efficiency Alternative for Ecuador, to be
implemented with MEM/DEREE (estimated costs without taxes).
- 79 -



1.     Constraints and Opportunities Assessment, Market and Load Studies and Economic Analysis
(US$307,000): The project will identify legal, regulatory and market constraints to increased energy
efficiency, and assist in implementing appropriate methods for mitigation. Consideration will be given to
such issues as tax treatment of efficiency investments, import and tariff treatment of equipment and
instrumentation and overall availability of both equipment and technical services. The project will assess a
variety of incentive options including innovative electricity tariff design and other approaches to support
efficiency, as well as evaluating the terms, conditions, general availability and cost of financing for
efficiency investment. Among the financing initiatives for efficiency activities to be considered will be a
potential levy on utility bills (e.g., I percent) to support investments. The project will work with
CONELEC and MEM to integrate the distribution utilities, statistical agencies and end-users into this
program to ensure necessary data is regularly assembled and analyzed to support efficiency and
investments and evaluate results. The project will, for example, support market and load studies to assist
in project design and implementation, and will develop an efficiency related database on energy use,
efficiency opportunities and related technical information to support remedial actions and investments. The
project will also support cost/benefit analyses of efficiency investments and assist in incorporating these
considerations into distribution utility and least-cost generation planning.
2.     Efficiency Training, Technical Assistance and ESCO Support (US$461,000): Assistance will be
provided for stakeholders involvement by means of informational and promotional workshops. The project
will support capacity development of the MEM through both formal and on-the-job training. Support will
be given, for example, to internal governmental efficiency programs, including improving building
operations, procurement policy, new construction standards and employee efficiency education. Technical
training will be offered to the private sector, including ESCOs and technical professionals in industry,
commerce and electric utilities. Topics covered will include basic good housekeeping, mechanical system
and system controls, lighting, demand management, performance contracting, energy management, boiler
and fumace efficiency, steam system optimization, waste heat recovery, cogeneration, fuel substitution and
opportunities for industrial process improvement. Training for CONELEC will help to incorporate
efficiency objectives in utility regulation, for example, through improved tariff policy, defining necessary
market and load studies, broadening criteria for distribution utility investments to support end use
efficiency opportunities, and by considering efficiency investments in indicative supply planning. Technical
support will also be provided to utility and other technical personnel in demand side management including
tariff structure experimentation, and identification and undertaking efficiency related demonstration
projects. The project will devote substantial resources to strengthen and encourage ESCO-type enterprises
including through assisting them to develop analytical capacity, prepare effective ESCO-type contracts and
agreements, and facilitate interaction with potential international partners. Project pilot projects listed
below will provide initial seed monies for applying this knowledge through support for energy audit,
pre-feasibility studies and implementation of various efficiency opportunities
3.    Information, Motivation and Standards and Norms (US$163,000):  A complement to other
project initiatives will be efforts to improve end-use equipment purchase and replacement decisions. This
requires GEF/WB support in several key areas (e.g., for air conditioners, refrigerators, lighting and motors)
including labeling to inform consumers of the life-cycle cost of new equipment and encouraging upgrading
the efficiency of products available in the local market through cooperative activities with local
manufacturers or importers. The project will also support efforts to improve new construction standards.
Substantial relevant information and experience from Mexico and Brazil, for example, will be transferred
to lower the cost of this activity. This subcomponent will be coordinated with task 2 above involving
financial incentives and innovative financing approaches such as for efficient appliance or lighting rebates,
distribution utility financing and specific ESCO financing support, to stimulate the investment in higher
first-cost but lower operating cost equipment. The project will also provide design and evaluation
- 80-



assistance for MEM informational and public educational efforts on energy conservation. The project will
incorporate OLADE as a facilitator for regional workshops to both share experiences of other countries to
advance work in the project (e.g., on labeling and appliance standards and DSM), and for promoting
regional replication objectives of the GEF Alternative among OLADE's 26 member countries.
4.     Pilot Projects and Demonstrations (US$5, 772,000): The project includes support for several key
pilot projects which will test sustainable and replicable mechanisms for implementing energy efficiency
investments.
A. Residential Efficient Lighting (US$430,000 including TA for US$125,000): This pilot will
consist of two energy efficient lighting projects.  Each will use a different financing and
implementation approach. Project support will consist of technical assistance in design, baseline
information gathering and analysis, monitoring and evaluation, and results dissemination. The first
pilot will support vendor/utility initiatives to cooperatively introduce CFL's with vendor sales and
vendor equipment financing. The second pilot differs in that it is based on project-specific
financing by a commercial bank in cooperation with a distribution utility.
B. Energy Efficiency /ESCO Projects - Private Financing for Public Service Efficiency Investment
(US$2,665,000 including TA for US$80,000): Two pilot projects will involve technical assistance
to stimulate private investment in improving municipal street lighting efficiency through shared
savings and/or a "project finance" approach. Specifically more efficient street lighting will be
demonstrated in these two cases with substitution of high pressure sodium for mercury vapor
lamps and improved control and management. The project will support feasibility assessment,
creating a baseline database, metering, project financing and ESCO contracting, evaluation of
alternative financing mechanisms, liaison with CONELEC regarding management of shared saving
payments, and evaluation of results and finally, dissemination.
C. Commercial, Tourism and Government Facilities Efficiency (US$596,000 including TA for
US$175,000): This pilot project provides technical assistance to stimulate the ESCO market in
these sectors. Hotels, commercial establishments and government facilities will be targeted for
cost-shared energy efficiency audit studies with direct ESCO participation. The project will: (i)
provide technical assistance and related training; (ii) assist in defining financing options and assist
in financial negotiations; and (iii) assist in dissemination of results through workshops.
D. Private Sector/Industrial-Commercial Associations "Strategic Partnerships" (US$1,881,000
including TA for US$200,000). This pilot activity will target at least one industrial and one
commercial association, one combined association (e.g. exporters, small & medium enterprises,
etc. ) respectively, and is intended to assist: (i) design and implementation of energy efficiency
programs; (ii) support sector specific technical assistance and energy efficiency training; (iii)
cost-shared energy audit service; (iv) facilitate access to international best practices in production
process and energy efficiency; and (v) disseminate results and promote replication.
E. The project will also finance measuring and other equipment to support the evaluation and
monitoring of the above demonstration projects (US$150,000).
5.     Monitoring and Evaluation (US$75,000): Development of a monitoring and evaluation plan
including establishing baseline, defining parameters to be monitored, criteria for evaluation, database
requirements and post-project survey requirements and schedule.
- 81 -



6.     Component Management (US$210,000): Development of plan for management and control by
MEM, including staffing requirements and acquisition of office equipment for MEM.
Baseline Scenario Rural Electrification
Distribution companies privatization is expected in late 2001, and these would have the primary
responsibility for grid extension electrification under CONELEC's National Electrification Plan for
2000-2009, with the GOE through FERUM providing about 80 percent of the financing required. Under
these plans, however, most of the rural population in dispersed and/or remote areas is expected to remain
unserved with conventional electric power supply.
The large majority of the rural consumers to be connected through GOE and distribution utility efforts in
grid extension are in the three distributor concession areas of Ambato (Area: 40,969 sq.km.: Provinces
Tungurahua, Pastaza, Napo, Morona Santiago), Sucumbios (Area: 37,959 sq.km.: Provinces Sucumbios,
Napo, Francisco de Orellana) and Centro Sur (Area: 30,364 sq.km.: Provinces Azuay, Canar, Morona
Santiago). Distribution utilities generally must connect any consumer requesting service of less than 10
kW at a distance not to exceed 200 meters from the existing grid. Otherwise connections are made only for
"projects" where FERUM or a project sponsor subsidizes construction costs sufficiently to permit the local
distribution company to earn its normal rate of return on this project. Assets subsidized by FERUM are
converted into shares in the distribution under the national solidarity fund.
The cost/benefit analysis of electrification and selection of projects is accomplished under FERUM
guidelines by CONELEC. These guidelines are weighted to favor frontier areas, Amazon and the
GalApagos (20 of 100 pts). Some extra weight (5 pts.) is given to renewable resources uses, however given
the absolute financial limitation of FERUM of US$590 maximum per household, it is unclear if isolated
household projects such as PV projects will be of sufficient priority or low enough in cost to qualify for
FERUM financing in the near future. CONELEC furthermore, has a substantial inventory of project
proposals which involve grid connection of rural areas at relatively low cost, which will compete for
available funds. No other regular funding is currently available from GOE sources for electrification. Other
social funds from the national Solidarity Fund (those not derived from fees on the electricity sector), are
dedicated to non-energy social infrastructure investments.
Under the Rural Electrification Baseline Scenario, rural electrification support will continue to go largely
for rural grid extension. The only significant initiative dedicated to off-grid electrification will be the CAF
project under MEM which will provide US$1.9 million for public service systems (US$1.0 million) and
small hydro (US$0.9 million). Even in the CAF case, sustainability is a serious issue without support
from the GEF Alternative to provide technical assistance. Small renewable energy firms will continue to
lack the initial market to extend sales and maintenance support except to urban or high margin specialized
end-uses (e.g., military, petroleum and communications). New technology such as wind and pico hydro
would not be introduced nor proven cost-effective, nor have commercial support networks developed
in-country. Technical assistance and studies under the baseline scenario are related to CONELEC's
activities for grid extension and MEM's activities for the CAF-financed project.
GEF Rural Electrification Alternative
The Rural Electrification GEF Alternative is complementary and a logical extension to the existing rural
electrification program which is largely for grid extension and managed by CONELEC with FERUM
funding. The GEF focus will be on dispersed and remote households, and small remote commercial and
public service electrification. The GEF Alternative will be coordinated with other rural development
- 82 -



infrastructure and poverty reduction programs, including rural telephony and the PROLOCAL program
funded by the World Bank which will work in 50 of the poorest parishes over a five year period beginning
in January 2001. This coordination should produce substantial synergy in capacity building, effectiveness
of dissemination and sustainability. Financing vehicles developed within PROLOCAL may also be useful
for financing and/or collecting O&M contributions of electrified households.
Rural and dispersed/isolated households in Ecuador currently use low quality and relatively expensive
alternatives to electricity. Families use "kerosene" (actually a mix of diesel and gasoline), candles and
batteries. It is currently uncertain what types of fuels are most common and level of fuel costs.
Preliminary field visits as part of project appraisal indicated expenditures on the order of
US$4-6/month/household in the Amazon region, US$4-8 in the Sierra and US$7-10 in the Coastal zone.
Available information indicates the likelihood that capital subsidies for electrification will be needed, but
the amounts remain difficult to determine, until consumer willingness-to-pay is assessed.
Strategic Program Design Considerations High levels of poverty in many unelectrified rural areas in
Ecuador argues for an approach to electrification carefully targeted to local priorities, essential public
services and sustainability. Key characteristics of the program should be:
X  Local development and community priorities (beneficiary consultation) should determine how to
electrify and the type and cost of systems chosen, and community participation should be maximized to
lower costs.
*  In addition to household lighting, productive end-uses should be targeted which contribute the most to
critical development needs; for example, potable water supply, improved education, health care,
employment and income generation and social communication.
*  Target area selection should be based on objective criteria (number of population served, community
interest, user willingness-to-pay, availability of complementary social infrastructure such as schools,
clinics, etc.).
*  Support for initiating concessions should be based on market information indicating a substantial
likelihood of sufficient demand and willingness to pay to ensure sustainability, that is, with a potential
for post-GEF project market expansion and smaller and declining O&M subsidies (if at all).
*  Subsidies need to be minimized, for example, by selecting appropriate systems (size, cost) for different
market segments, and better understanding ability and willingness to pay.
Service Delivery Models for Off-Grid Electrification. A considerable body of experience now exists with
different service models, including concession (e.g., distribution utility), subconcession (e.g., delegated
responsibility to community or NGO within utility concession area), cooperative or community based
electrification (e.g., may be in a concession or subconcession arrangement), decentralized market
approaches (e.g., direct sales by dealers usually limited to high value uses and higher income households),
direct government or donor led projects (e.g., grants and donations without clear plan for sustaining
systems) or integrated rural development electrification (e.g., often subsidized grid extension). There is no
clear best approach. The appropriate mechanisms require thorough assessment of local conditions and
tailoring to the local situation. The pilot projects proposed are intended to assess likely alternatives which
may be appropriate in Ecuador.
The proposed pilot projects describe two main complementary approaches for off-grid electrification. In
higher potential areas, a concession approach based either on the distribution utility or an alternative
private sector concessionaire is potentially viable and administratively feasible.  This would be
implemented in a manner designed to minimize subsidies and create a sufficient flow of funds to cover
- 83 -



O&M costs at a minimum, and create potential for expansion to make this an attractive market for the
concessionaire. The project will also support development of complementary business activities such as
supply of telecommunications services.
Another off-grid pilot will be designed to be compatible with the potentially very low ability of the
population to pay in many rural areas. The project will emphasize support to public service facilities such
as schools and hospitals, as well as community centers. This support is intended to be a most cost-effective
means to improve the standard of living for the most rural residents, and at the same time achieve financial
sustainability in O&M terms. Costs will be reduced by choosing the most appropriate and least cost
technology. Local benefits will be maximized by recognizing and adopting local priorities for supporting
productive activities and providing technical support and training to make equipment and administrative
systems self-sustaining.
GEF Off-Grid Electrification Alternative
GEF Alternative
The following outlines the major elements of the GEF off-grid electrification Alternative for Ecuador, to be
implemented with MEM/DEREE and CONELEC (estimated costs without taxes).
1.     National Electrification Plan (US$460,000). The development of a National Electrification Plan
and implementation strategy will be supported by the project in order to provide a sound legal, institutional
and analytical basis for planning, implementation and financing of rural electrification. While the emphasis
of the plan will be on the off-grid systems under the GEF Alternative, it is essential that the plan be
comprehensive in order to integrate and coordinate all rural electrification planning. The plan will provide
an improved basis for financial and economic analysis of off-grid projects, as well as a clearer framework
for project development. It will also clarify and improve the linkage with distribution utility planning and
investments, and related national targets for grid and off-grid rural electrification. The plan among other
outputs will support:
(a) Development of planning capacity by training staff and obtaining and implementing GIS computer
software for development of an analysis system and database on sites and characteristics for rural
electric systems, incorporating census information and market study data, and capacity for evaluation
of prospective projects. Criteria for, and preliminary definition of grid extension and off-grid project
areas will be produced;
(b) Analysis of the legal, regulatory and institutional structure and constraints for rural electrification,
including recommending options for improvement;
(c) Analysis of the rural electrification market (with surveys and database developed separately), ability
and willingness to pay for energy services, and appropriate subsidy and tariff policy;
(d) Analysis and proposed clarification of electricity distribution concession responsibilities and role in
future rural electrification; and
(e) Development of a long-term budget and funding strategy for off-grid electrification.
2.     Rural Electrification Analysis and Implementation Support (US$222,000). The project will:
(a) Assist in establishing standards for user fees (tariffs) and financial cost recovery, cost-sharing (e.g., by
private concessionaires and communities) and O&M financing objectives for pilot and other projects;
(b) Identify and evaluate potential institutional mechanisms for pilot projects, analyze and assist in
tailoring institutional arrangements for pilot projects and for replication (e.g., sub-concessions, private
fee-for-service, community/NGO and development project cooperative ventures);
- 84 -



(c) Define renewable energy industry and project training requirements and plans to address these;
(d) Establish linkages with other rural service and infrastructure delivery investments and programs such
as roads, telephones, health and education;
(e) Support establishing the necessary monitoring and evaluation criteria for pilot projects; and
(f) Identify and evaluate productive use options.
3.     Rural Electrification Project Promotion and Capacity Development (US$350,000). Promotion
and capacity development is designed to both assist pilot projects and to undertake implementation of the
national off- grid electrification program. Lessons learned from implementation of the pilots as well as
results of the National Plan and Strategy will provide direction for this support. Assistance will be provided
to:
(a) Promote   project   development,  including   through    distribution    concession    and
community/NGO/development program and projects for off-grid electrification;
(b) Provide training to improve the institutional capacity of MEM, CONELEC, CONAM and other
implementing partners to support overall institutional development;
(c) Coordinate and promote distribution utility involvement;
(d) Identify,   screen   and   promote   participation   of   private   entrepreneurs  including
electricity/telecommunications joint-ventures;
(e) Assist in preparation of operationally and financially sound implementation and operation plans;
(f) Assist in review and approval of process;
(g) Provide end-user information and training on system limitations, proper use and basic end user
maintenance;
(h) Provide financial and managerial training (e.g., in bookkeeping, billing and customer service);
(i) Assist in preliminary financial feasibility analysis; and
(j) Promote productive uses of electricity.
4. Rural Electrification Technical Implementation Support (US$303,000).  Support in this case will
initially be focused on pilot projects, but will expand beyond these as the pilots are implemented.
Specific support will include:
(a) Determining appropriate type, scale and design of rural electric systems including household,
community and isolated mini-grids and assistance for specific projects or sites; as well as, supporting
additional renewable resources assessments as required;
(b) Designing renewable energy systems including specifications and estimated costs appropriate to
resources and project market;
(c) Estimate financing needs, and appropriate in-kind contributions and determine cost-sharing for private
participation;
(d) Establish standards for participating equipment and pre-qualify vendors;
(e) Provide technical training on installation, operation and maintenance of rural electric systems;
(f) Devise battery recycling and/or disposal plan and vendor requirements; assess watershed and soil
structure impacts and mitigation plans for micro-hydro systems, and sustainability and environmental
impact of any biomass system;
(g) Establish operating standards and regulatory procedures including technical and management capacity;
and
(h) Conduct special studies for critical constraints removal: For example, a small-hydro private power
constraints study is planned for barrier identification, followed by technical, legal and regulatory
assistance in constraint resolution, Key constraints include: developing economic tariff agreements,
addressing financial guarantee requirements, determining economic value of new hydro in the national
grid and negotiating with regards to this valuation (due to drought, seasonality and related
considerations). Local developers appear to have both the technical capacity and financial resources
- 85 -



(and available foreign developer/financial relationships) to develop these projects when these
constraints are addressed.
5.     Demonstration Projects - Design, Implementation, Evaluation and Replication (US$145,000).
The overall project is designed to both support pilot projects and initiate a national off-grid electrification
program.  Funded in this task area are specialized services required for pilot implementation,
supplementary project specific training, and hardware acquisition and installation. Implementation support
will include:
(a) Review and selection of projects based on objective evaluation criteria (e.g., financial soundness,
cost-effectiveness, local labor and financial contribution, adequacy of local market, competence of
management plan and organization). Although selection criteria and objectives will differ, the activity
will need to be coordinated with CONAM and FERIIM activities for consistency. Pilots are intended
to stimulate market mechanisms and private sector participation, as well as to ensure consultation and
involvement of non-governmental, community and other interested stakeholders for their
implementation;
(b) Preparation of agreements and contracts with project concessionaires or other sponsors (e.g. to
establish financial, management, maintenance and monitoring and reporting requirements; as well as
MEM and vendor responsibilities for support);
(c) Assistance and coordination with CONAM in preparation of bid documents and procurement;
(d) Assistance in logistics of materials acquisition, delivery, installation, commissioning, warranty
administrtion, and end user support such as through consumer informational materials and training;
(e) Monitoring of project implementation at every stage; and
(f) Establishing and carrying out a monitoring and evaluation program consistent with the overall project
plan.
Pilot Projects:
(1) Rural Dispersed Population -- "Sub-Concession" Pilot (US$1.500.000). This pilot will consist of a
number of site specific projects in different areas designed to test the feasibility and effectiveness of a
moderate size rural "concession" or concession-like agreements, for planning, installation, maintenance,
financial administration and local replication/expansion, of primarily household off-grid electrification
systems. These may be developed: (i) cooperatively with distribution utilities as "sub-concessions" with
local management or under contractual agreements for utility oversight and participation; (ii) under
independent concession agreements with communities, NGO's, ethnic organizations and/or other
developmrent programs, and/or (iii) with private project developers or fee for service providers who
undertake to administer and cofinance projects.
Technology: Typically the projects are expected to involve dispersed PV, wind or small-hydro installations,
potentially including mini-grids, serving public service, household and productive end-uses in medium to
high potential zones.
Outputs: The pilots are designed to demonstrate a sustainable as well as replicable institutional mechanism
for project financial administration and project O&M, to demonstrate sound technical performance and
reliability, to meet consumers expectations, and to provide socio-economic benefits to end users. Pilots are
intended to recover at least O&M costs from basic systems, and for larger household systems should
recover part of capital cost subsidies (to be determined on the basis of ability-to-pay and willingness-to-pay
as determined by market studies).
- 86-



(2) Public Sector Infrastructure Pilot (US$350. 000). This pilot project will demonstrate the sustainability
and technical viability of dispersed (off-grid) electrification in areas with lower socio-economic capacity.
Electrification support will involve energy supply for needed public services, for example in health clinics,
schools, community centers and telecommunications, as well as for very small home lighting systems.
Selected community or ethnic organizations, NGOs or other development organizations, RET suppli2rs or
project developers, electric utilities, or other representing communities will be invited to participate. The
project will perform a preliminary screening, and assist those selected to prepare proposals. Selection will
stress: demonstrated market and socio-economic benefits, quality of organization and management
capacity, adequacy of local contribution in-kind or cash, mechanism for covering O&M costs of the
systems, potential for replication of the pilot project in other provinces of Ecuador and cost-effectiveness of
approach.
Technology. Installations are expected to involve dispersed PV, and/or wind or small-hydro installations,
potentially including mini-grids, serving public services including school, health clinics, community centers,
and telephone centers, and potentially some productive uses.
Outputs:
Direct. These pilots are designed to demonstrate a sustainable as well as replicable approach for project
identification, organization, financial administration and O&M; and to demonstrate sound technical
performance and reliability, meet community expectations, and to provide socio-economic benefits to the
community. Potential directly financed installations include 100 schools, community centers and/or health
centers, including participation in selected telecenters in villages and towns of the north and south border
areas, the Amazones and other zones (some 160 telecenters planned in the telecommunications component
of project).
Indirect. The pilot will be coordinated with, and provide technical support to MEM's social service
electrification project. The MEM project is supported by the Corporacion Andina de Fomento (CAF) with
US$1.9 million for off-grid renewable energy-based electrification. It is intended to electrify some 400
schools and 97 dispensaries (sanitary posts). Of these funds, US$1 million is allocated for PV systems
(with an additional contribution of US$300,000 from Petroecuador), and the remaining US$900,000 has
been allocated for micro-hydro schemes.
6.    Monitoring and Evaluation (US$25,000). Development of a monitoring and evaluation plan
including establishing baseline, defining parameters to be monitored, criteria for evaluation, database
requirements and post-project survey requirements and schedule.
7. Component Management (US$250,000). Development of plan for management and control by the
MEM, including staffing requirements and acquisition of office equipment for MEM.
- 87 -



Table 6a. Incremental Costs and Benefits Matrix - Energy Efficiency
Baseline           Alternative                Increment
Global Environmental                          Barriers reduced or         Reduced or eliminated barriers
Benefit                                       eliminated.                 Reduced CO2 emissions
Reduced CO2 emissions      ( 2,154,260 tons) by 10th year.
compared with forecast.    Additional viable EE measures
Creation of sustainable EE  which can be replicated in
programs in private sector  region
(end users) , distribution
utilities and ESCOs.
Domestic Benefit            Use of electricity and Reduction in the use of energy  US$42.8 million NPV of net
fuels as forecasted.   and corresponding costs savings benefits over 10 years.
Current level of   compared to forecast.       Increased productivity and
electricity services.  Improved level of productivity, expanded sales.
competitiveness & improved
energy services.
Development of energy services
companies.
Energy Efficiency                 US$000                  US$000                      US$000
1. Constraints and                  50                     357                     307 (230 GEF)
Opportunities, Market and
Load Studies and Economic
Analysis
2. Efficiency Training,             100                     560                       460 (345)
Technical Assistance and
ESCO Support
3. Infonnation, Motivation and      50                      212                       162 (122)
Standards and Norms
4. Pilot Proj. & Demonstrations
TA
Equipment                                            580                       580 (435)
Private investment                                   150                       150 (38)
5. Monitoring and Evaluation                               4,992*                     4,992 (0)
6. Component Administration                                 75                         75 (56)
Total                               50                      260                        210 (0)
250                    7,186                        6,936
GOE financing                     250                                                  210
WB loan                                                                                508
GEF financing                                                                         1,226
Private Investment                                                                    4,992
* Note: Net costs, after subtracting costs of conventional, baseline equipment.
- 88 -



Table 6b. Incremental Costs and Benefits Matrix - Rural Electrification
Baseline            Alternative                 Increment
Global      Environmental                         Barriers reduced or         Reduced or eliminated
Benefit                                           eliminated.                 barriers.
Reduced CO2 emissions       Reduced CO2 emissions
compared with forecast.     (192,400 tons) cumulatively
Creation of sustainable RE  at project end.
with renewable energy.
Domestic Benefit               Electrification through Expansion of electrification to  Electrification of 3,950
grid connection as    isolated and dispersed    households, and 100 public
forecast only.      households.                 services.
Increased use of renewable    Increased quality of lighting
resources at lower cost.    and quality of life, improved
Development of local enterprises educational opportunity,
and employment.             health services and
increased productivity of
commercial activities.
Costs *                             US$000                   US$000                     US$000
1. National rural electrification      36                      497                   461 (346 GEF)
plan/strategy and constraints
resolution
2. Rural electrification market        50                      272                     222 (167)
studies and implementation
support
3. Rural electrification promotion     50                      400                      350 (263)
and capacity development
4. Technical support
5. Demonstration projects                                      303                      303 (227)
- Implementation support
- Projects                             50                      195                      145 (109)
- CAF public service PV & small                               1,850*                   1,850 (463)
hydro                                 1,900                    1,900                       0
6. Monitoring & evaluation
7. Administration                      50                       100                      50 (38)
Subtotal                              100                      400                       300 (0)
2,236                   5,917                      3,681
GOE financing                       2,236                                                300
WB loan                                                                                 1,768
GEF financing                                                                           1,613
* Note: Incremental costs of demonstration projects have not been adjusted to exclude the very small baseline
capital costs (kerosene lamps, car batteries, etc.).
- 89 -



Attachment 1: GEF Alternative Characteristics and Assumptions
Energy Efficiency Alternative. The economic cost benefit analysis for this alternative is based on the
implementation of seven efficiency pilot activities measures plus related project replication. We recognize
that it is difficult to separate the impacts of the pilot projects from the impacts of higher energy prices.
However, it is clear from an evaluation of current institutional conditions, technical capacity, lack of
efficient equipment and equipment efficiency standards in the market, past practices and information
availability, as well as general attitudes toward energy use, that a substantial intervention will be necessary
to realize the potential for energy efficiency in the Ecuador.
The strategy and task details of this program are discussed above. The specific efficiency measures whose
impacts produce project benefits in the analysis above are:
1. Household compact fluorescent lighting program
Lighting is estimated to account for 18 percent of end use electricity consumption in the residential
sector. An average total consumption of 1,904 kWh/yr in year one grows to 2,220 in year 10.
Penetration of CFLs starts at 0.1 percent in year one, reaches 11.9 percent in year ten. The
average savings per household is estimated at 138.6 kWh/year. Assumed peak coincidence of load
is 40 percent in the cases when this measure is introduced.
2. Commercial, Tourism and Government Energy Efficiency
Commercial lighting is estimated to account for 40 percent of total consumption of the commercial
sector. Average total use per consumer is 10,445 kWh/year. Savings are 1,530 kWh/year per
efficiency case user from a combination of lighting and other measures which are assumed to be
the result of improved energy management, lighting control, and efficiency lighting retrofits.
Penetration starts at 0.2 percent and grow to 4.6 percent in year 10.
3. Municipal Street Lighting Improvement
This end use is estimated to account for 999 GWh of electricity use in year one (2002), or 1,540
kWh/unit/year. Unit savings are 317 kWh/unit/year. Penetration begins at 2 percent, reaches 13.9
percent in year ten.
4. Industrial efficiency program / Strategic Partnerships
Motors are estimated to account for 80 percent of end-use in this sector. Electricity use totals
100,451 kWh/year per user. Unit savings would be 7.5 percent from the introduction of efficient
motor systems, and other measures including improved lighting, load control and overall improved
energy management. Penetration starts at 0.5 percent of this end-use, and reaches 7.5 percent in
year 10. A field visit to a textile factory in Quito known for undertaking a substantial program to
improve energy efficiency indicated that other significant savings are feasible. This including
boiler and steam system improvements and, most importantly, introduction of improvement process
equipment which contributes to both productivity improvement and major electricity savings. In
order to reflect the potential benefits of non-electricity energy efficiency and related waste
management reductions, estimates were made of the potential fuel savings from modest
introduction of efficiency measures, such as good housekeeping, boiler tune-up, steam system
improvements, process control, waste heat recovery and others. Assuming a 15 percent reduction
in fuel use, and penetration of 0.1 percent in year one rising to 3.5 percent in year ten; savings were
estimated as well as in CO emissions reductions.
- 90 -



The 1994 study, "Programa de Administraci6n de la Demanda y Uso Racional de Energia Electrica en
el Ecuador, " done for INECEL provides specific information on the energy use and load characteristics for
electricity end-users in Ecuador, as well as energy efficiency impact information from various international
studies and experiences. The study provided end-use specific savings estimates and cost information for
Ecuador, and relates experience in North American utilities as a basis for estimates of potential impact. A
1984-1986 energy efficiency program of the National Institute of Energy (INE) in Ecuador supported
energy audits and limited training and technical assistance. A later survey of 33 companies receiving
assistance under the program indicated that some 53 percent of projects with costs of less than US$50,000
and paybacks of less than one year were implemented, 46 percent for projects with costs over US$50,000.
The projects with highest rates of implementation were maintenance, combustion control, insulation, power
factor correction and lighting improvement. Electricity efficiency improvements were the smallest share of
projects implemented due primarily to low prices for electricity. (Source: RCG/Hagler, Bailly, Inc.,
"Energy Conservation Investment Decision-making in Developing Countries," December 1989).
Demand-side Management. Demand-side management (DSM) is another specific programmatic option
for introducing both general efficiency improvements and for optimizing the utilization and operation of the
power generation system through load management. Incorporating DSM programs within the utility
system is particularly timely given the impending privatization of the distribution utilities as part of power
sector reform. DSM incentives in a vertically disaggregated utility system however will require a tailored
design to ensure that incentives and regulations both permit and encourage this practice. While not
specifically addressed in this document, DSM program planning should also introduce and incorporate the
concept of "integrated resource planning" (IRP). Integrated resource planning in essence is a system-wide
cost-benefit analysis that allows efficiency and environmental benefits to be more effectively compared with
supply alternatives in a planning sense. In order to both design and justify DSM it is important to
recognize not only the end-user and distribution direct benefits, but also the system-wide benefits in terms
of reduced capacity needs, reduced emissions of CO2 and other contaminants, and lowered generation costs.
In order to make estimates of these benefits and to incorporate these in the cost-benefit analysis, and
corresponding levels of incentives, IRP-type analysis should be performed.
Examples of DSM opportunities are the following:
(a) Households: Compact fluorescent lighting, electric heater cycling and solar hot water, energy
efficiency refrigeration, and consumer education;
(b) Commercial/buildings: Tariff incentives/design and energy efficient lighting, efficient A/C,
building design practices (passive lighting, ventilation, etc.); and associated training and
information;
(c) Industrial: Tariff incentives/design. Process control, power factor correction, efficient motors
(variable speed, drive belts), interruptible loads, process or A/C cycling. Efficiency improvements
in pumps, fans, compressor selection; motor replacement, sizing and selection, belt drive;
refrigeration efficiency; compressed air system management and efficiency. Process efficiency
improvement (boilers, kilns, furnaces, dryers, steam not primarily electrical efficiency technology
but may be more effective to combine. Associated industrial training and information;
(d) Public sector: Street lighting, buildings (as in commercial above), water treatment and pumping;
and
(e) Agricultural: Pumping and irrigation.
- 91 -



ESCOs Ecuador has at least three companies which are pursuing energy service business opportunities.
Two of these firms were interviewed for this report. One is strictly a service company, staffed on a
part-time basis, and the other is involved in both energy service consulting and sales of efficiency
equipment. The small size of the current market, small size of these firms, limited technical capacity,
concentration on only electricity efficiency, and lack of shared-savings experience, will require substantial
support and market enhancement to allow these firms to grow. Particularly important will be support
regarding shared savings contracting, financing, partnering with international ESCOs for business and
technical support or joint ventures. There are substantial opportunities for developing linkages between
such firms and the distribution utilities as these latter develop programs for DSM and energy efficiency.
Off-grid Electrification. For cost and benefit analysis we have made estimates of the potential market for
off-grid electrification, dividing markets into more and less densely populated provincial areas,
respectively. These appear to be generally reflective of their characteristics in terms of access to grid
electricity, rates of poverty and rates of out migration. ODEPLAN ("Atlas para el Desarrollo Local')
information by province and parish was used in interpreting this information (derived from the 1990
Census and other sources). We also utilized the World Bank report, "Ecuador: Crisis, Poverty and Social
Services," June 2000, to evaluate the economic potential of households, and the availability of
infrastructure in general.
Given the prospectively very low income of the off-grid population, we have chosen several types of
domestic off-grid electricity systems, a 50 W PV system, 100 W PV system, and 250 W PV systems and
240 W wind and 200 W pico hydro, primarily for residential uses in higher potential - higher income areas;
and a solar lantern, 240 W PV school system and 880 W PV health clinic system, for lower income areas.
The pilot project installations are directly related in number to the available capital from project sources,
plus significant user contributions for larger systems. Generally we consider that the O&M costs of all
systems must be supportable by the users or community in the case of public service systems. Induced
impacts are assumed in subsequent years as a result of project promotion and technical assistance, as well
as through financing and Government support which follows from the development of a national strategy.
Local prices for PV equipment and costs for O&M should decrease given the capacity development and
procurement of the project; however, no estimates were available for the purposes of the PAD. These
estimated market penetrations give a total of 2,850 concession related systems, plus 1,100 individual user
solar lantern systems, and 100 public service systems. The specific strategy and programmatic task
characteristics of this alternative are described in detail in the programmatic discussions above.
Key assumptions affecting cost benefit analyses are:
1.     Life-cycle costs: Basic residential system cost estimates are based on MEM capital cost estimates
and adjusted with project consultants figures for O&M. Lantern costs are international data from project
consultants.
2.     Penetration rates: Mission assumptions based on potential market and general budget parameters
of the GEF Alternative. We have included an induced growth case that increases the concession systems to
5,267 systems, lanterns to 2,351 and public systems to 220. Only in the case where we assume cost
decreases for these systems or cost increases for alternatives, do these cases appear economically or
financially attractive.
3.     Benefits assumed: Benefits calculated are explained in detail in project working papers. In general
the residential systems are considered substitutes for existing kerosene use, and public service systems are
substituted for small-scale diesel systems serving these loads. Social benefits are not directly quantified nor
included in even in economic analysis, except in the sense that greenhouse gas reductions are quantified.
- 92 -



The social benefits from improved lighting quality, access to communication and entertainment, are known
to be very substantial and therefore would significantly affect results. No quantitative estimates for these
values are available for Ecuador. Recent World Bank sponsored research in the Philippines, for example,
indicated values for less expensive improved lighting on the order of US$36/month/household, as well as
other benefits at least equal to this amount [World Bank-ESMAP, "Rural Electrification and Development
in the Philippines," June 2001; pg. 75.]
Tables 7 and 8 below present the assumptions for the economic and financial lifecycle analysis.
Table 7    Economic Lifecycle Costs of Solar Home and Public Systems - Ecuador
Solar Electric System       Installed Cost      O&M &              Total            Full     Cost
(US$)               Replacement        (US$)            Payment
(US$)                               (US$/month)
Portable lantern SHS               70                  72               127              1.52
50 W SHS                            500                270               688             7.70
100 W SHS                          1050                524               1,405           16.87
250 W SHS                          2,625               1,088             3,315           39.79
School                             2,520               881              3,037            36.45
(3x80W)                     _
Health Center                     9,240               3,478            11,355           136.28
(880W)
Discount rate: 12%, Lifetime 15 years; no IVA.
Table 8.  Financial Lifecycle Costs of Solar Home and Public Systems - Ecuador
Solar     Electric  Installed Cost    O&M &                  Total       Net Payment
System              (US$)            Replacement             (US$)        (US$/month)
__________________           (U S$)
Portable   lantern        78                   61                121            1.69
SHS__                   _  _  _   _
50 W SHS                   560                 242               698             9.29
100 W SHS                 1,176                474               1,435          20.08
250 W SHS                 2,940                988               3,415          47.80
School                    2,822                810               3,159          44.21
(3x80W)
Health Center           10,349               3,177             11,762          164.62
(880W)
Discount rate: 15%, Lifetime 15 years; IVA at 12%, electricity taxes at average 30%.
Subsidy and Financial Support Policy. The project is designed to promote off-grid electrification in the
most financially viable means in order to present a sustainable model by covering O&M costs at a
minimum, and to support replicability and expansion by setting charges to consumers in order to cover as
much of capital costs as reasonable. For the smaller systems such as lanterns, full costs can be covered
through payments of only US$1.70/month, and for 50 W systems for about US$9.30 per month. However,
this also assumes that the system is amortized over 15 years, an unlikely case for systems installed in the
future in a more commercial setting. Assuming that we change the repayment period to 7 years (other
- 93 -



things equal), the monthly charge to fully repay the cost of the lantern goes to US$2.34 and for the 50W
system to US$12.00/month. This change is not major (about 26 percent for 50W), but is likely to make the
systems even less affordable without an initial user subsidy. GEF subsidy is only applied to capital costs
of the demonstration projects (25 percent of investment costs).
Generally the project considers that user subsidies should be limited to the basic systems for household use,
that is, lanterns and 50 W systems, plus public service systems. For the 100 W and 250 W solar household
systems, at a maximum the equivalent cost of a 50 W system may be subsidized for initial financing
purposes, although the subsidy would later be recovered through higher per month charges. The level of all
capital subsidies should be determined in an objective fashion, and in a manner which seeks to minimize
this amount to allow the overall budget to reach as many households as possible. The financial and
economic analysis in the project has not determined what this subsidy allocation should be. However, the
implementation and ultimately the number of systems which can be supported directly by the pilot projects
will depend largely on what amount of capital financing is permitted and what user connection charges are
established. The PAD has not explicitly included estimates for user contributions in terms of labor and/or
materials, as these were felt to be both less significant than for grid electrification and unfeasible to
estimate due to a lack of experience on such contributions. Substantial in-kind support is, however,
expected to come from communities and NGO organizations in implementing the program, as well as
financial and technical support from distribution utilities and should be considered during project
implementation.
Additional market studies will be needed to develop guidelines for connection charges and user subsidies,
and these will determine the ultimate number of systems which the pilots will be able to finance. It should
be emphasized that although larger household systems are analyzed in the PAD, the main purpose of the
project is to service lower-income rural households which grid electrification has not assisted. Larger
systems for productive users likewise should be a priority, along with public service systems.
Finally, due to time constraints it was unfeasible to develop a clearly articulated approach to coordinate
public service electrification with the telecenters planned in the project. Nonetheless, the report has tried to
make clear the synergy which exists between these two aspects of the PROMEC projects, and
implementation guidelines will ensure that MEM and FODETEL coordinate closely to realize this
potential.
Other Renewable Energy Alternatives. The pilot projects also include wind and very small-scale hydro
("pico hydro"). In the case of wind estimated capital costs are US$963 installed for a 240 W system. For
the small hydro a capital cost of about US$120 for a unit purchase in Vietnam is increased for transport to
Ecuador, site review and installation, to a total of US$300. This latter number is uncertain given the very
site specific nature of this option, and lack of experience in Ecuador.
The impacts of small-hydro in particular appear to be potentially significant due the a large number of
run-of-the-river sites with substantial power potential and low-cost to develop. Local developers have
expressed substantial interest in developing this potential, as well as in rehabilitating previous projects.
The constraints and issues which should be addressed to assist in realizing this potential are incorporated in
the program plans described in this document. These initiatives should be equally as beneficial to potential
wind electric development. It was decided to not include the impacts of policy support for the small hydro
alternative in the project cost-benefit calculations since the systems were so large they tended to overwhelm
all other effects.
- 94 -



CO2 Emission Reduction Calculations. In the efficiency improvement cases we have calculated emission
reductions on the basis of kWh saved and decreased generation by a marginal diesel generation plant
including transmission losses of 10 percent; with non-electricity end-uses we have used a mix of diesel and
fuel oil. The marginal plant for emission calculations is always diesel. In fact in wet, dry and normal
hydro years, the marginal plant remains a diesel electric unit, although efficiency would vary due to
different plants being assigned the incremental load. In the wet case, some 80 percent of generation is by
hydro, 20 percent thermal, of which 1.6 percent is diesel (fuel oil efficiency in this case is about 14
kWh/gal). In the medium case, 68.6 percent of generation is by hydro, 31.4 percent thermal of which 6.1
percent is diesel, and in the dry case, hydro accounts for 48 percent of generation and thermal 52 percent of
which diesel is 21.9 percent. The plant efficiency varies due to the plants which are employed being
increasingly less efficient (that is, respectively, 15.5 kWh/gallon, 14.7 kWh/gal, and 10.1 kWh/gal of
diesel). No adjustments were possible at this stage for load characteristics of end-uses and end-use
efficiency measures. Estimated peak load demand reductions were calculated by measure, and these values
and corresponding potential decreased capacity requirement benefit were incorporated in sensitivity cases in
this analysis.
For rural electrification, we have assumed average consumption of "kerosene" (actually a mixture of diesel
and gasoline) as the primary fuel for rural off-grid lighting. For public service uses the assumption is made
that small diesel generation would be the alternative to rural renewable energy systems. Emission
reductions calculations are based on CO emissions reductions for the household sector are based on an
assumed use approximately 0.84 It/day/household (50 W PV case, increasing for larger systems).
Significant lighting expenditures on candles and batteries are not directly considered. Given that the
availability and quality of lighting may be very low by international standards, a major benefit of PV may
be in providing a high quality lighting source rather than offsetting either expenditures or commercial fuels
currently used.
- 95 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ECUADOR: Power and Communications Sectors Modernization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC)
X.iii,> _~~~~Ane 5                                                     Ilaca Summat
Im plementation Period
INVESTMENT COSTS                     1,511         6,080         20,324        11,957         39,871
RECURRENT COSTS                       1,695        4,360          7,458         9,724         23,236
1.CENACE                               350           350          1,100         1,100          2,900
2. Extension of services
2.1. Telecenters                     100          1,561         2,718          3,635          8,014
2.2. Rural Electrification           259           259            259           259           1,036
2.3. Business Services for MS        867          1,711         1,779          3,787          8,143
3. Taxes                               119           479          1,602           943          3,143
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  3,206        10,440         27,782        21,681         63,107
IBRD                                   871         3,507         11,724         6,897         23,000
Government (central)                   255         1,026          3,428          2,017         6,726
GEF                                    852           852            568           568          2,839
Local Private Sector                 1,112         1,975          4,706         2,658         10,450
Users Fees                             116         3,081          7,356          9,540        20,092
Total Project Financing         3,206        10,441        27,782         21,680        63,107
- 96 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ECUADOR: Power and Communications Sectors Modernization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC)
Procurement
Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Tables A and Al. Consultant services and goods
and Build-Own-Operate (BOO) contracts for World Bank financed activities would be procured,
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of the World Bank guidelines for Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1977, revised in September 1977, and
January 1999, and the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published in
January 1995, and revised in September 1997 and 1999. Standard bidding documents will be used for all
IBRD-financed procurement.
Goods. The project would finance goods for an estimated total cost of US$10.0 million that will be
procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for all tenders estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$250,000 or more, under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for all tenders estimated to cost between
US$50,000 and US$250,000 and under International or National Shopping for tenders estimated to cost
less than US$50,000.
BOO contracts. The project would finance BOO contracts under the Rural Telecommunications component
for an estimated total cost of US$6.6 million. ICB will be used for awarding these contracts to private
operators that will compete on the basis of selection criteria including qualifications and minimum
subsidies. There will be prequalification. These contracts will conform with Section 3.13 (a) of the Bank
Guidelines. The private operators selected in this manner shall be free to procure the goods required for the
facility from eligible sources, using their own procedures.
Consultants' Services and Training. Consultant and training services for an estimated total amount of
US$12.3 million will be procured under contracts awarded under Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) and other selection methods as indicated in Table Al. Consulting assignments for which a firm is
to be hired and which have a value equivalent to US$100,000 or more, shall be procured according to
QCBS. The method of selection based on Consultants Qualifications (CQ) will be used for contracts with
an estimated value of less than US$100,000. Individual consultants (IC) shall be selected in accordance
with Section 5 of the Bank Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.53 million, mostly consultants
in CONAM's UTEP.
Project Implementation Unit. The Consejo Nacional para la Modernizaci6n del Estado (CONAM) is the
implementing Government agency for this project. CONAM's Public Enterprise Reform Unit (UJEP) will
be responsible for central handling of project accounts and information, budgeting, preparation of financial
reports, procurement procedures and contracts supervision, and establishment and operation of internal
controls. Contract award will be the responsibility of CONAM's Executive Director. Agencies that
participate in the project (CONELEC, CENACE and MEM for the power sector, FODETEL and SUPTEL
for the telecommunications sector, MICIP for the ICT component) will be responsible for technical design
and orientation of the project activities.
Procurement Capacity Assessment: The assessment of the capacity of CONAM for implementing the
PROMEC project was conducted in June 2001, following a preliminary assessment in December 2000. The
assessment reviewed legal aspects, organization and staffing, procurement environment, procurement cycle
- 97 -



management, and contact monitoring. An action plan was agreed with CONAM, as follows: (a) Continue
procurement training for CONAM's and other implementing agencies' staff, in particular during the project
launch workshop; (b) Publish the project's General Procurement Notice, immediately after Loan approval;
(c) Open a section on the project in CONAM's web page; (d) Start the creation of a consultants and
suppliers database for the project to input contracts and follow up actions; and (e) Establish a
computerized system for the monitoring and filing of contracts in CONAM (condition of effectiveness).
The main conclusions and agreements of the procurement capacity assessment are summarized below:
Organization and personnel: CONAM has a team of professionals that were for the most part involved in
procurement processes for Bank-financed projects (PERTAL, MOSTA and PROMEC PPF). This team
includes the administrative and financial director, a disbursement assistant, a procurement assistant, and
three sector technical specialists (in telecommunications, electricity and privatization) for the preparation of
TORs and supervision of the consultants. Nevertheless, the review of experience in the execution of the
PPF has evidenced the need to hire a full time procurement specialist, and to strengthen the skills of the
existing UEP procurement staff through their participation in Bank training events related to procurement
procedures, prior to Loan effectiveness. The other agencies that are involved in the implementation of the
different components of the project (CONELEC, MEM, CONATEL, SUPTEL and CENACE) have the
necessary experience to elaborate TORs and supervise complex consulting services, but they are not
familiarized with steps and requirements for Bank-financed activities, and training will also be necessary,
prior to Loan effectiveness. This should allow avoiding delays that often happens at the onset of projects,
because of the time required for project staff to become familiarized with Bank's procurement procedures.
The review also confirmed that there was good collaboration between the technical staff of the various
agencies and that of CONAM.
Procedures.  CONAM  has prepared a project Operations Manual (OM) that specifies detailed
responsibilities, procedures and internal controls for procurement activities, including a detailed flow of
actions regarding bid/proposal evaluation, contract award and communications with the Bank. The OM
also includes job descriptions for procurement-related staff at CONAM. However, there is a risk of
insufficient coordination between CONAM and the participating agencies. To mitigate this risk, adequate
procedures will be defined in the Operations Manual, as well as within the subsidiary agreements to be
passed between CONAM and the participating agencies. The OM will also establish standards for time
allowed for the preparation and review of procurement documentation and project outputs by all concerned
parties. Each participating agency will designate a project coordinator, with clearly defined responsibilities
and work program. CONAM will organize meetings on a regular basis to coordinate and plan procurement
activities with the participating agencies.
Legal aspects. As indicated in the Country Procurement Assessment for Ecuador undertaken in 2000, some
of the national laws and regulations concerning procurement procedures are not consistent with the Bank's
guidelines. This problem has been addressed through the introduction of special clauses in the Loan
Agreement. CONAM will be responsible for all clearances in the country with respect to any procurement
of goods, and any employment of consultants to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, any approval
of bidding documents or requests of proposals or contracts required under the laws of the Borrower.
FODETEL's regulations for the selection of private operators for rural telecommunications depart from
Bank rules on two aspects: (i) selection is based on a two-envelope system; and (ii) there is no
prequalification phase. This problem has also been addressed through the introduction of clauses in the
procurement schedule of the Loan Agreement and GEF Grant Agreement to prevent using the two-envelope
system, but to allow prequalification of operators. These aspects were discussed with FODETEL.
- 98-



Procurement environment. Procurement culture in Ecuador appears more developed than in earlier projects
financed by the Bank, although many instances of corruption have been publicly reported at national level.
In the discussions sustained for this assessment, it was confirmed that present authorities at CONAM and
the UEP have a strong will for ethical behavior and have expressed their commitment to adhere to
competitive selection and transparency in all activities. The Bank should continue to support CONAM by
providing thorough, consistent and prompt advice on procurement activities and issues. To further increase
transparency, CONAM will post on its webpage, information on bidding processes, short lists,
specifications and termns of reference. In addition, independent professionals will participate in key
procurement stages such as short listing and bid evaluation.
Procurement planning and monitoring. CONAM has prepared a procurement plan that forms part of the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The PIP was finalized during negotiations and is dated August 9, 2001.
It will include a detailed procurement plan for the first year of project execution. The procurement plan
should be reviewed and updated before the end of each calendar year, in order to adequately plan for
publication of notices, preparation of bidding documents and necessary inputs of participating agencies for
the following year. The Procurement plan would also be updated on a quarterly basis (including initial and
actual dates for key procurement stages), as a management tool to ensure timely and efficient delivery of
outputs as scheduled in the plan. This should avoid unrealistic planning of procurement schedules and
delays in the implementation of the various stages of the process. CONAM and the participating agencies
have started preparing the procurement documents for the first year of implementation of the project.
CONAM will form ad-hoc evaluation committees to review expressions of interest and evaluate bids. The
committees will include three to four representatives from CONAM, relevant participating agencies and
independent professionals, as well as CONAM's procurement specialist.
GPN. A General Procurement Notice will be published, following Loan approval, in Development Business
and the national press. Non-confidential procurement information will be posted on CONAM's webpage.
Specific procurement notices will be published as per Bank guidelines.
Contract monitoring and filing. CONAM, as the rest of government entities in Ecuador, does not have
mandatory requirements to keep detailed procurement records. However, it has been agreed that CONAM
will establish such a record and monitoring system for the project contracts, as a condition of Loan
effectiveness. Initial Bank supervision missions should review and validate this system. Furthermore,
CONAM, in collaboration with the participating agencies, will establish, maintain and update a
consultants' and suppliers' database compiled from expressions of interest and specialized sources,
according to profiles of services and goods needed in PROMEC. This database would be a tool to support
quality, availability and transparency for a competitive selection of consultants and procurement of goods.
- 99 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ExpenditurewCategory            ICB              NCB          Other2       fN.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            16.85            0.43          0.51          6.60        24.39
(10.86)         (0.35)         (0.42)       (0.00)      (11.63)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          16.73         2.25        18.98
(0.00)          (0.00)        (11.37)       (0.00)     (11.37)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00            0.00          0.23          0.00        0.23
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                            16.85            0.43          17.47         8.85        43.60
.___ __ _   (10.86)     (0.35)        (11.79)       (0.00)     (23.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, and technical assistance services.
- 100 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS       CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms              8.34    0.00    0.00    0.00      2.95    0.00    0.50     11.79
(4.90)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.90)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (6.80)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    5.44    1.75      7.19
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (4.57)  (0.00)   (4.57)
Total  8.34    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.95    5.44    2.25      18.98
(4.90)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.90)  (4.57)  (0.00)   (11.37)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 101 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review of draft bidding documents, bid evaluation reports and contract award recommendation and
contracts will be carried out for all ICB contracts for goods exceeding US$250,000 and for the first
contract under NCB and the first contract under shopping. This will cover about 96 percent of the total
amount of Bank-financed contracts. Selective post review will be applied to other contracts during
supervision missions. Prior review of the terms of reference, cost estimates, selection criteria, consultant
short lists, request for proposals, bid evaluation reports and contract award recommendation, and draft
contracts will be required for all consultant contracts with an estimated cost exceeding $100,000 per
contract for firms. Short list and TORs will be reviewed in the case of contracts for firms with an
estimated cost of less than US$100,000. Regarding individual consultants, qualifications, experience,
TORs and terms of employment will be reviewed for contracts above US$30,000 and TORs will be
reviewed for contracts below US$30,000.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contct Value                                   Contrts Subject to
Treshold              Procurementt             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$1thousands)              Method
1. Works
2. Goods                         >250                     ICB                       All
50< <250                   NCB                    First one
<50              Intemational/National          First one
Shopping
3. Services
Firms                            >100                    QCBS                       All
<100                     CQ               TORs, selection criteria
and contract terms
Individuals                      >30                                                All
<30                                              TORs
4.Training                     Same as 3                Same as 3                Same as 3
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$26 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 102 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The Bank Loan and the GEF Grant will be disbursed over a period of four years. The project's closing
date is June 30, 2006 (i.e. six months after the estimated project completion date).
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Goods                                      10.38                    100% foreign
80% local
Services, including training and audit     7.60                        100%
fees
PPF Refinancing                            2.30
Unallocated                                2.72
Total Project Costs Financed by            23.00
IBRD Loan.
Front-end fee         0.23
Total                                      23.23
Table Cl: Allocation of GEF Grant
Expenditure Category     Amount in SDR million  Amount in US$million      Financing
...__________________                            Percentage
Goods                                0.35                   0.44             100% foreign
80% local
Services                             1.64                   2.06                100%
Unallocated                          0.27                   0.34
Total Project Costs financed                                2.84
by the GEF Grant
Front-end fee                                0.00
Total                                                        2.84
Financial Management and Project Accounting
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within CONAM will be responsible for maintaining project
management arrangements acceptable to the Bank including centralization of project accounts and
information, budgeting, elaboration of financial reports, contracts supervision and establishment of internal
controls. The PCU will bc responsible for monitoring both Bank and counterpart project funds.
The PCU has an integrated financial system SIGEF (Sistema de Gesti6n Financiera) which would allow
project management to account project expenditures and monitor process. In addition, the PCU will install,
as a part of the SIGEF system, a project system to monitor the financial and physical activities of the
project, by effectiveness. This project system would include planning, internal controls, project monitoring,
contracts monitoring and financial reporting.
- 103 -



The specific functions, responsibilities and procedures of the financial management system are established
and governed by the Operations Manual, that was prepared by CONAM to the Bank satisfaction.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements against categories described in Table C and Cl would be made upon receipt by IBRD of
fully documented applications, except for contracts valued at less than (a)US$ 100,000 for consulting firms;
(b) at less than US$30,000 for individual consultants; (c) at less than 50,000 for goods; and (d) for all
training costs, which would be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). The minimum size of
application for direct withdrawals and issuance of commitments would be for at least 20 percent of the
Authorized Allocation to the Special Account. Supporting documents for SOE will be retained by
CONAM for one year after in which the last disbursement takes place and would be available for review by
the Bank and the auditors. Account and SOEs would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
Special account:
Two special Accounts will be established at the Central Bank in accordance with Bank policies and
procedures. In the case of the special account for the Bank loan, the amount of the initial deposit will be
US$1.5 million, with an initial advance of US$500,000 until the aggregate disbursed amount has reached
US$4.0 million. In the case of the special account for the GEF grant, the amount of the initial deposit will
be US$0.25 million, with an initial advance of US$100,000 until the aggregate disbursed amount has
reached US$0.5 million. There could also be only one special Account for the Loan and GEF Grant. In
this case, the reconciliation statement for the special Account will clearly identify the deposit under both the
Loan and the GEF Grant.
Following six months of project implementation and the borrower's submission of the initial project
management reports, the Bank's financial management specialist would assess the project's readiness to
adopt full Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) procedures and prepare quarterly Project
Management Reports. At that time, the disbursement procedures would be expected to switch to PMR
based disbursement for the remainder of the project. The PMR consists of a set of agreed-upon quarterly
reports, detailing historical and planned financial, physical, and procurement activities under the project,
including a projection of cash requirements for two subsequent quarters.
Project Management Reports
During the project execution, the PCU will submit to the Bank semiannual project management reports
linking technical activities with financial costs. After installing an integrate project financial system
acceptable to the Bank, the PCU will submit to the Bank quarterly project management reports, linking
project expenditures to key monitoring indicators of activities carried out during each quarter. The forrnat
and basis to produce those reports would be in accordance with the Bank Financial Management Manual
and LACI procedures.
Financial Audits
The PCU would have the records and accounts of the project for each year audited by an independent and
qualified external auditors finn, acceptable to the Bank. The audit would be performed in accordance with
international auditing standards, and TORs satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the audit reports would be
fiurnished to the Bank no later then June 30 of each year.
- 104 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ECUADOR: Power and Communications Sectors Modemization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC)
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       8                            34
First Bank mission (identification)                                           11/25/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     06/19/2001                    06/19/2001
Negotiations                                    08/07/2001                    08/09/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/01/2002
Prepared by:
CONAM and implementing agencies (CONELEC, CONATEL/FODETEL, SUPTEL, CENACE, MICIP
and MEM-DEREE
Preparation assistance:
PPF-360-EC (US$2 million)
Japanese Grant (US$0.7 million)
GEF PDF (US$0.35 million)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Joerg-Uwe Richter                  Sr. Economist, Task Manager (until 11/30/2000)
Philippe Durand                    Sr. Energy Specialist, Task Manager (from 12/01/2000)
Eloy E. Vidal                      Pr. Telecommunications Specialist
Alberto Cruzat                     Sr. Telecommunications Specialist
Luis Carlos Guerrero               Financial Management Specialist
Livio Pino                         Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Juan David Quintero                Sr. Environment Specialist
Pilar Larreamendy                 Social Scientist
Susan Goldmark                     Sector Manager
Kathy Bain                         Sr. Social Scientist
Clemencia Toffes                  Regulatory Specialist
Jose Manuel Bassat                 Communications Officer
Luiz Gazoni                       Sr. Procurement Specialist
Patricia Hoyes                    Financial Management specialist
Dana Rysankova                    Private Sector Specialist
Lourdes Linares                   Financial Management specialist
Eduardo Zolezzi                   Senior Power Engineer
James C. Hanna                    Private Sector Specialist
Marialisa Motta                   Private Sector Specialist
Michael Goldberg                  Micro Finance Specialist
Mike Jones                         Consultant
- 105-



Gabriela Arcos                    Environmental Specialist
Issam Abousleiman                  Disbursement Officer
David Varela                       Senior Counsel
Macdonald Benjamin                 Resident Representative
Quality Enhancement Review Team
(K.Kadiresan, S.Ettinger,
J.Besant-Jones, A.Revollo, S.Panneer,
R.Taylor, A.Colliou, K.O'Sullivan)
- 106-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ECUADOR: Power and Communications Sectors Modemization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Operational Manual, August 9, 2001
Project Implementation Plan, August 9, 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide memoire pre-appraisal mission, December 2000
Aide Memoire appraisal mission, June 2001
C. Other
*   Law 184 RO/996, enacted on 10 Aug. 1992, which separated operating (EMETEL) and
regulatory and control functions (SUPTEL);
*   Law 94 RO/770, enacted on 30 Aug. 1995, which created new regulatory entities: CONATEL
and SENATEL; and allowed privatization of EMETEL, which was split into ANDINATEL &
PACIFICTEL;
*   Electricity market Law of September, 1996 as amended through the Law of 1998, and attendant
regulations
* Economic Transformation Law of March 13, 2000 ("Ley Trole-l'") which eliminated the
exclusivity concept in the telecommunications sector and increased the allowable private
shareholdings in ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL from 35 percent to 51 percent
*   Economic Transformation Law of August 17, 2000 ("Ley Trole-2") which increased the
allowable private shareholdings in all electricity enterprises from 39 percent to 51 percent.
*Including electronic files
- 107-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ECUADOR: Power and Communications Sectors Modernization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC)
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                 IBRD         IDA                      Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
P039437      2002 RURAL POVERTY (PROLOCAL)                     25.20      0.00                         0.00     25.20     0.00      0.00
P049924      2001 Rural Water Supply & Sanitation              32.00      0.00                         0.00     31.15    -0.85      0.00
P064045      2000 Fin SectrTA Ln                               10.00      0.00                         0.00     9.30      2.63      0.00
P070337      2000 EC-SAL                                       151.52     0.00                         0.00     80.00    60.00      0.00
P040086      1998 INDIGENOUS PEOPLES                           25.00      0.00                         0.00     7.71      3.45      0.00
P040106      1998 INTL TRDEIINTEGRATIO                         21.00      0.00                         0.00     9.91      4.41      0.00
P007135      1998 AGRIC CENSUS & INFO                          20.00      0.00                         0.00     4.30     -0.83      0.00
P039084      1998 EC- HEALTH SERVICES MODERNIZATION PROJ.      45.00      0.00                         0.00     37.20    15.47      0.00
P036056      1997 EC JUDICIAL REFORM                           10.70      0.00                         0.00     2A8       1.48      0.00
P007131      1997 AG RESEARCH                                  21.00      0.00                         1.20     13.29     3.74      2.73
P007128      1996 ENV MANAGEMENT PROJ                          15.00      0.00                         4.99      1.65     6.64      3.65
Total:    376.42      0.00                         6.19     222.19    96.14      6.38
ECUADOR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
July 2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                               Disbursed
5FC                                   ITFC
FY Approval             Company                              Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic       Loan   Equity       Quasi    Partic
1997                   Agrocapital                           3.50      0.00      0.00       0.00      3.50      0.00      0.00       0.00
1969/73/77/81/82/87   COFIEC                                 0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
1998                   Concessionaria                       11.50      1.30      0.00      15.00      2.93      0.33      0.00       3.82
1999                   FV Ecuacobre                          8.69      0.00      0.00       0.00      8.69      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998                   Favorita Fruit                        9.44      5.00      0.00       0.00      9.44      5.00       0.00      0.00
1999                   La Universal                          8.20      0.00      5.00       0.00      8.20      0.00      5.00       0.00
1993                   REYBANPAC                             4.12      0.00      0.00       0.00      4.12      0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:             45.45      6.30       5.00      15.00     36.88      5.33       5.00      3.82
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                  Loan      Equity       Quasi       Partic
2000                   ERSA                                     8.00        4.00         0.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                8.00        4.00        0.00        0.00
- 108 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ECUADOR: Power and Communications Sectors Modemization and Rural Services Project
(PROMEC)
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle.
Ecuador  & Carib.  Income        Development diamond
2000
Population. mid-veer (mflons)                        12.6       516     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI Der capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1.210     3.680     1.140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                      153      1.895     2,327
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population (%)                                         2.0        1.6       1.0
Labor force (X)                                        3.1       2.3        1.3     GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994.00)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (9 of population below national poverty tine)   35
Urban population (% of total population)                65        75        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        69        70        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1.000 live births)                28        30        32
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)                         9        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (9% of population)   71        85        80
Illiteracy (6 of population age 15.)                     9        12        15
Gross primarv enrollment (9 of school-age populgtion)  127       113       114            Ecuador
Male                                                134                  116         - -- - Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               119                 114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios
GOP (US$ billions)                           11.7     10.7       19.0      13.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                26.1     17.5       12.9      16.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            25.2     32.7      37.1      42.4
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                   25.9     22.9      24.2      28.4
Gross national savinos/GDP                   21.1     15.1      20.3      29.4
Current account balancelGDP                  -4.5     -3.4       5.0       9.0      Domestic                     ne n
Interest Davments/GDP                         3.1      3.9       4.0       5.0      savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               51.1    113.3      76.4    104.7       s
Total debt service/exPorts                   42.5     33.0      25.5
Present value of debtlGDP                                       71.0
Present value of debtexports                                   208.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.0      1.8     -7.3       2.3       4.5         -     Ecuador
GDP per capita                      -0.6     -0.3     -9.0       0.4       2.6               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        5.4      4.1     -0.4      -0.2       5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
Mof GOP)                                                                           0
Agriculture                                  12.1     13.4      12.2      10.0
Industrv                                     38.1     38.0      37.5      40.2      so
Manufacturing                              17.7     19.4       21.3      16.9       o    -                          Z
Services                                     49.8     48.6      50.4      49.8    .50       95   96   97      
Private consumption                          59.6     68.5      65.5      62.1    -1I0
General government consumption               14.5      8.6      10.4       9.5                    GDI       0-GDP
Imports of goods and services                25.4     27.4      25.8      30.8
(average annual growth)                  1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   4.4      1.7       -1.3      -5.3    40
Industrv                                      1.2      2.7      -3.7       4.9    20
Manufacturing                               0.0      2.1       -7.2       5.2  0l
Services                                      1.7      1.3     -11.7       3.4    20       9    3r               99   00
Private consumption                           1.9      1.3      -9.7       2.2     4
General qovernment consumption               -1.4     -1.8     -15.5       -1.3    60
Gross domestic investment                    -3.8     -0.5     -52.9      48.0                   Exports     e-imports
Imports of noods and services                -1.4      0.4     -39.0      18.7
Note; 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev Indicators In the countrv (in bold) compared with its Income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-109 -



Ecuador
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domnestic prices                           1980    1990       1999      2000     Inflation (%.)
(% change)                                                                       5 - -
Consumer prices                             13.0    48.5       52.3     96.1    100 -
Implicit GDP deflator                       19.5    54.0       62.0    105.9
Govemment finance                                                                 0>
(% of GDP, includes currentqrants)                                                a
Currentrevenue                                ..    18.2       19.4     22.8             95   96   97   98   99    0
Current budget balance                        ..      6.3       1.9      3.7            -          d
Overall surplus/deficit                        ,      3.7       3.4     -1.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990       1999     2000      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        1,901    2,724     4,451    4,927    6,000
Oil                                      1,021    1,268     1,312    2,144
Bananas                                    162      471       954      821     *0                         *
Manufactures                                ..    380       1,063    1,229
Total imports (cil                         1,750    1,865     3,017    3,721
Food                                                                           2.000
Fuel and energy                             73       95       244      298
Capital goods                              631      609       815      942        o
Export price index (1995=100)               171      116       100       131          94  95  96  97  98  99  oo
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                  102      100        84        85                *Exports     Nlmports
Ternmsoftrade(1995=100)                     168      116        119      153
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mimons)                               1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              2,303    3,262     5,263    5,900     10 -
Imports of goods and services              2,426    2,519     4,090    4,809
Resource balance                           -123      743      1,173    1,091      s
Net income                                  -424   -1,210    -1,319   -1,227      0 _
Net current transfers                        23      107      1,101    1,360                    98             9
Current account balance                     -524    -360       955    1.224
Financing items (net)                       761      760    -1,377      -916    -10
Changes in net reserves                     -237    -400       422      -308     1
Memo.
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     1,031    1,004     1,888    1,179
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            25.0   767.8   8,496.1  24,988.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       5,998   12,108    14,506   14,251
IBRD                                      109      816       861       862                G:1       A:862
IDA                                        36       32        22        21                               B: 21
Total debt service                         1,008    1,084     1,645
IBRD                                       19      103       140       132                                   :2,375
IDA                                         1        1         1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             7       53        53
Official creditors                        224       53       171       180
Private creditors                         524       57       254      -320
Foreign direct investment                  70      126       690       720         F: 7,613
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0         0
Worid Bank program
Commitments                               106       50        20         0     A-laRD                      E - Biateral
Disbursements                              34       47        90        90     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repaynments                      10       42        83        83     c - IMF                    G - Short-terrn
Net flows                                  24        4         7         7
Interest payments                           9       62        58        50
Net transfers                              15      -57        -51      -43
Development Economics                                                                                             1019101
- 110-



Additional
Annex 11
Social and Environmental Analysis
1. Environmental Assessment for the Power Sector
This Annex summarizes the main findings of a PPF-financial environmental overview of the legal,
regulatory and institutional framework in the electricity sector in Ecuador, and of the preliminary
environmental assessment of the electricity generation, transmission and distribution companies that was
constructed (under IDB financing).
The environmental overview outlines a proposal to strengthen the institutions dealing with environmental
issues in the sector, including the creation of an Environmental Unit within CONELEC, and the
establishment of environmental units within the companies operating in the sector. The overview proposes
a training program targeting the Environmental Unit of CONELEC, the environmental units of the sector
companies, and the overall assistance for the improvement of environmental management in the electricity
sector in Ecuador. It also establishes the terms of reference for an environmental assessment of the sector,
based on environmental audits of the on-going projects and on environmental impact studies, together with
plans for environmental management and monitoring for future projects.
Table 1 highlights the main environmental issues to be addressed in the Ecuadorian electricity sector.
Table 2 outlines a program to improve the environmental management of the sector. Table 3 identifies the
studies, technical assistance, implementation mechanisms and equipment needed. Table 4 summarizes the
estimated costs of implementing the proposed program.
- 111 -



Table 1
Summary of the sector's environmental issues
Main Environmental Problems      Sectoral Environmental Strengthening Proposals
Limited sectoral capacity to manage  Establishment of an environmental unit in CONELEC.
environmental issues.
Staff training and procurement of appropriate equipment.
Implementation shortcomings of the  Environmental protection policies at national and sectoral levels are
environmental norms in the sector.  coherent and, in principle, could serve to guide electric sector environmental
management at projects' level. However, it is necessary to strengthen sector
policy by developing instruments --mostly economic- which promote
cleaner production, as well as efficient use of energy.
Lack of instruments for sector   It is necessary to prepare more specific guidelines for each sub-sector:
environmental management.        hydroelectric, thermoelectric, transmission, distribution.
Need to prepare specific protocols about environmental audits for the
Insufficient environmental guidelines. various sub-sectors.
Environment audits to be conducted by privatized sector enterprises.
Environment liabilities of existing
sector activities not fully identified.  Government to allocate sufficient funds.
Timely financing of environment
liabilities remediation.
Lack of environmental data in the    Creation of an environmental quality system in order to evaluate
sector.                          atmospheric quality (e.g., emission levels), water quality, presence of acid
rain, and any other social and environmental issues.
Low level of community           Design of public participation mechanisms.
involvement.
Analysis of the legislation on public participation in Ecuador and other
Latin American countries, as well as its applicability to environmental
management of the electricity sector.
Undertake public participation workshops and public audiences.
Lack of instruments and market   Creation of a technical and economic database on generation alternatives.
economic incentives for better
environmental management.
Table 2
Summary of programs for sectoral strengthening
Program                        Description
1. Establishment of an        The Environmental Unit of CONELEC, must have an appropriate structure,
environmental unit in      autonomy and responsibilities to: (i) promote an integral and coherent
- 112-



CONELEC.                  development of the sector environmental management; (ii) control and
regulate compliance with environmental regulations in electric sector
activities; and (iii) improve decision making process within CONELEC to
optimize the sustainability of the overall benefits. To this end, the
Environmental Unit must be placed at a high level in the organization chart of
CONELEC, with decision making power, and report to its president
The Environmental Unit must be inter-disciplinary to obtain a holistic view
of the social and environmental management of the electric sector. It needs
professionals who can manage physical aspects such as soil stability,
sanitary issues, atmospheric and water contamination etc. Issues pertaining
to the natural environment must be managed by, among others, experts in
ecology, vegetation, fauna, and aspects of environmental quality, protected
natural areas, and bio-diversity. Social and economic experts must manage
issues such as relations with communities, ethnicity, indigenous reserves,
cultural and archaeological patrimony, and community consultation. An
expert on environmental law will be in charge of the legal aspects.
It is also important to organize a research group to handle the databases on
environmental data, clean technologies and renewable energy.
Instruments for implementation.  Adequate funding for the Environmental Unit will be provided to ensure
efficient operation of the Department.
Appropriate equipment fitted to needs will be provided.
Technical assistance will be provided through courses and workshops.
Specific environmental guidelines will be formulated, and a protocol for
environrnental audits of existing projects will be designed.
Use of ISO 14000 norms will be promoted.
2. Environmental Quality      Data about contingencies will be analyzed, and there will be a follow up on
System.                    the impact of the contingency measures adopted on the basis of this analysis.
As a starting point, an environmental database should be created, which will
gather information on:
* Environmental Impact Assessment (ElAs).
* Monitoring.
* Environmental audits.
* Other existing regional studies.
Use of environmental quality bio-indicators will be considered.
Instruments for implementation.   Technical assistance to handle a database system and a geographical
information system (GIS).
Acquisition of necessary computers and software packages for the above
- 113-



purpose.
3. Design of public participation  Development of participation mechanisms, in particular, community
mechanisms.                consultations regarding the design and implementation of projects in their
region, and community consultations as part of the environmental studies.
Instruments for implementation.   Technical assistance on how to develop and channel community
participation.
Assessment of advantages and disadvantages of community consultation and
participation.
Technical assistance on the elaboration of surveys, as well as on public
audiences, community supervision, and relations between energy sector
enterprises and the communities.
4. Creation of an economic and   An input to stimulate the use of sources of renewable energy such as
technical database on      hydraulic, wind, and solar energies, and facilitate the implementation of this
generation alternatives.  type of projects.
This database will generate reliable information on sources of renewable
energy in the country, and will be useful to promote investment in renewable
energy projects.
Identification of appropriate economic and market instruments to support
renewable energy-based generation such as fiscal incentives and easy access
to technological information on renewable energy sources.
International cooperation from countries using these technologies. These
countries can also be invited to invest in the country.
Instruments for implementation.   Institutionally, this could be a task assigned through an agreement or contract
between the Ministry of Mines or CONELEC and a local research center,
such as the Centro de Transferencia y Desarrollo de Tecnologia Energetica
(CTTE), among others.
Mechanisms to promote/advertise this database to be developed through
seminars, visits to the sector and possibly a webpage.
- 114 -



Table 3
Identification of required mechanisms
Program           Priority                     Needs
Institutional     High priority.               Hiring of personnel.
Strengthening
To be implemented during the first Technical assistance for one year to prepare the
year.                        environmental management procedures, and
environmental handbooks.
Hardware, software and training.
Training          High and medium priority.    The following programs have been identified as
important:
* Course of strategic environmental evaluation for
the electric sector.
* Clean technologies for electric generation.
* Energy efficiency.
* Community participation in the decision making
process of the sector.
* Environmental evaluations of the projects.
* Environmental monitoring techniques.
* Use of bio-indicators on environmental quality
evaluation.
* Projects vulnerability and contingency
management of the energy sector.
* Environmental issues in the energy sector.
* Use of remote sensors for environmental
evaluation.
Environmental     Medium priority.             Technical assistance on database implementation and
Quality System.   To be launched during the third   management.
year of project implementation.
Technical assistance on the use and handling of
geographical information systems.
Exchange of information with other entities involved in
environmental issues in regions where electricity or
telecommunications projects are being developed with
appropriate consideration of environmental aspects.
Community         High priority                Training in community consultation and relationship
participation                                  with communities.
mechanisms
Information to communities about their participation
rights.
Foster the training of community leaders in public
participation.
- 115-



Develop communication channels among communities,
sector enterprises, and CONELEC.
Hardware and software to prepare audiovisual and
informative material to educate communities in topics
related to the electric sector and environmental
protection.
Creation of a      High priority.                Develop Inter-institutional mechanisms to create this
technical and      To be started on the first year  database.
economic database
about generation                                 Promote international cooperation of countries where
alternatives.                                   this kind of projects are being developed.
Adopt mechanisms to make public the data obtained in
order to promote investments on these technologies.
Adopt economic and fiscal incentives to attain these
objectives.
Technical assistance on database management.
- 116-



Table 4
Estimated Costs (without taxes)
Program                                                   US$
Institutional strengthening for environmental management  200,000
Regulatory framework and support for its implementation  70,000
Training                                               300,000
Environmental quality system                           100,000
Technical and economic database about generation       230,000
alternatives
Total                                                  900,000
2. PROMEC Indi2enous People Framework
Legal Frameworks
The Ecuadorian National Constitution acknowledges the nation's multicultural character and provides the
legal framework to take into account cultural differences. As a result, the State has been gradually
responding to indigenous requests for increasing their participation in decision-making processes.
Consequently, governmental programs are being implemented at national level, such as the National
System of Bilingual Intercultural Education (DINIEB) and the Program of Indigenous Medicine. The 1998
Constitutional Reform, associated to the Convention ILO 169, recognizes the collective and ancestral
indigenous rights of the so-called nationalities and "pueblos," the right to prior consultation, and defines
the indigenous circumscriptions as local administrative entities (Art. 68), although the latter lacks specific
regulations yet.
In Ecuador there are more than 2,325 rural indigenous organizations of different nature and geographic
scope: community-based, regional and nation-wide. These organizations, that emulate labor unions,
emerged more than two decades ago and have kept through time their ethnic and territorial affiliations.
Currently an important number of these organizations have built up their administrative and management
capacity and skills in designing and implementing development projects and they constitute an important
vehicle for internal social control.
The National Development Council for Indigenous People and Nationalities (CODENPE) was created in
1998. CODENPE is a governmental institution attached to the Presidency of the Republic of Ecuador,
governed by a board, the National Council of Indigenous Nationalities, conformed by 12 indigenous
delegates and the Executive Director.  CODENPE counts, among a number of governmental
representatives, with a delegate who represents the President of the Republic. CODENPE is in charge of
defining the indigenous national policies, as well as implementing and supervising projects targeting
indigenous people. It is also important to highlight that in the past elections, 27 rural indigenous mayors
and a Provincial prefect were elected by popular vote. Among other things, the role of these local
governmental representatives is to coordinate the implementation of projects with the above-mentioned
organizations, NGOs and other governmental agencies.
Social, cultural characteristics and policies.
It can be said that the last census (1990) and post-data gathered referring to the number of indigenous
people is flawed and sometimes even contradictory. Estimations of the indigenous population since the last
1990 census vary between 20 percent and 35 percent of the total Ecuadorian population. The 12 indigenous
- 117-



nationalities present a great cultural diversity, including their own language and shared traditions among
each nationality, distinctive from the national cultural context. The Quichua nationality is the largest,
widespread in both the Sierra and the Amazon regions. The Amazonian nationalities are Shuar, Achuar,
Huao, Cofan, Secoya-Siona, Zaparo and on the coastline ones are Awas, Embera, Tsachila, Chachi,
Matefios- Huancavilcas and Punas.
Approximately 47 percent of the indigenous population is extremely poor and there is a very high
percentage of illiteracy among rural women (50 percent). Although only 50 percent of indigenous lands are
considered to be officially titled, land possession and adjudication is based upon customary (ancestral)
ownership (World Bank 2000). Land is a critical asset for indigenous people, constituting the main source
of self-subsistence food production. However, access to land and land ownership is differentiated according
to the regions (Sierra, Amazon and Coast) and their specific historical agricultural structures. The main
scarce income sources of indigenous households in rural areas are the product of marginal sales to local
markets of agricultural and livestock activities. Temporary rural-to-urban migrations continue to be high
due mainly to unequal land distribution and lack of rural employment opportunities and credit. Evidence
shows that migration of some household members constitutes the alternative to get off-farm employment,
especially for young men employed on non-qualified labor activities (Gender Review, World Bank 2000).
Therefore, not surprisingly, indigenous people register high rates of sub-employment and unemployment.
Indigenous peoples as rural population are among the poorest population accounting for an unemployment
rate in November 1998 of 21.4 percent. In Ecuador, it can be said that extreme poverty and ethnicity
overlap.
Assessment of development opportunities, impacts and risks.
In Ecuador, rural indigenous people show a high percentage of basic unsatisfied needs such as a lack of
access to electricity and telecommunications services. As mentioned earlier in the document, during the past
five years economic and political crises resulting in the reduction of the State budget have worsened,
increasing the number in the overall population under the poverty line (WB 2000).
Supplying electricity and communications services in rural areas to people that never have had access to
these services represents among other things, a critical input leading to increase efficiency and
competitiveness of the socioeconomic performance of these groups. Therefore the provision of services to
improve interconnectivity is linked to poverty alleviation. Thus, it is necessary to coordinate efforts to
overcome past problems as the result of policies and actions, which have failed balancing the opportunities
of rural areas vis-a-vis urban ones. This is why it is crucial to take into account the specificity of the
indigenous populations, as beneficiaries of the Project. To ensure an appropriate targeting of these
indigenous populations, the Project will define the pertinent options to adopt and implement a culturally
appropriate development plan.
People's participation is critical to achieving the objectives of the Project. As indigenous populations are
key actors, it is necessary to program participatory activities and specific studies from the design phase
through the implementation, supervision and evaluation of the Project and the evaluation of project
impacts. To that effect, workshops, focus groups and interviews will be organized in order to achieve the
following:
(i) define a strategy for consultation by the implementing agencies in each of the Project components, with
special emphasis on those which by definition will benefit the indigenous communities;
(ii) integrate and reinforce the mechanisms of consultation already in place to promote inclusion of
indigenous populations, such as public hearings;
- 118 -



(iii) take into account experiences from previous consultations in the power and telecommunications sectors
that could provide feedback for the Project implementation. The analysis will need to identify the
existing barriers that prevent access of indigenous population to the services, and direct the
intervention, taking into account their cultural context. The existing barriers and the mechanisms to
overcome them will be examined in the context of the communication strategy of the Project; and
(iv) provide resources and specialized assistance during Project implementation to ensure efficient provision
of services, that maximizes the impact of the benefits from the Project by increasing opportunities to
generate income in indigenous communities.
Description of the preparation process.
Providing access to electricity and communications services in rural areas results into an improvement in
the quality of life. The Project component called "Extension of Services to Low Income Groups" has in
turn five sub-components with activities which intend to maximize the benefits derived from the provision
of services in rural areas. Among them, the component cofinanced by the GEF (see Annex 4a) will carry
out environmental studies and adopt mitigation measures and will ensure that indigenous
socioenvironmental issues will be thoroughly addressed in the analysis.
Considering the knowledge-gap of modem technologies that is likely to exist between the indigenous people
and the rest of the population, activities will be defined accordingly to ensure that indigenous populations
will have non-discriminatory access to information and capacity building. Activities scheduled for the
promotion and development of ICT businesses include pilot sites in territories with a high percentage of
indigenous population (Otavalo and Tena). Indigenous populations in these locations are considered
critical target groups for the Micronet Centers. In these localities, consultations were carried out through
focus groups to identify possible opportunities and limitations for establishing E-businesses. Regions with
intensive agriculture, textiles and tourism activities have been identified as the most promising sites for the
pilot projects. A sub-component will include a strategy to determine and implement the type of training and
opportunities to promote businesses for handicrafts and other productive activities of indigenous
communities.
The Project will rely on a consultant specialized in indigenous matters for the follow-up and coordination
with the implementing agencies of the Project in Ecuador to ensure that indigenous concerns will be taken
into consideration in the design and implementation of the Project as previously discussed. The Project will
establish relationships and exchanges, among others, with the Prodepine Project (World Bank-financed
project) to exchange and analyze accumulated experiences on investments in infrastructure. It will also
benefit from the Prodepine project by learning from the participatory methodologies already applied in
indigenous community planning, and from the inputs this project could provide regarding the requirements
for capacity-building in these communities.
Evaluation of Risks
The Solidarity Fund --as the recipient of privatization proceeds assigned to social investment programs--
will strengthen its management capacity and will identify specific instruments, which should ensure access
for indigenous groups to the programs. In the electricity sector, as well as in communications, FERUM
and FODETEL are the main sources of financing to provide electricity and telecommunications services in
rural areas, in addition to some funds provided to the Ministry of Energy and Mines for off-grid
electrification projects. Mechanisms such as targeted subsidies are used to ensure that the benefits of these
expansion programs will reach the poor. However, even though these mechanisms are aimed to achieve
greater equity in service delivery, they do not take into account the specificity of indigenous population,
which could result in a differentiated access or even prevent access altogether. In this sense, and even
- 119-



though the provision of these services to rural areas do not have negative impacts on the indigenous groups,
it is necessary to ensure that subsidies will reach the indigenous sectors. To achieve this goal, indigenous
groups will be consulted on the scope of the project, before and during its implementation, on how to
anticipate adverse trends and mitigate them, and on how to fully benefit from the project outputs.
Supervision and Evaluation
The Project will carry out: (i) mechanisms during the implementation phase that will provide feedback to
the beneficiaries; and (ii) a more in-depth evaluation at the mid-term review of the Project to allow
redefinition or reinforcement of actions by the implementation agencies.
Strategy for participation
A consultancy will be hired to define the consultation strategy that will take into consideration the
participation of indigenous communities into the different components of the Project. This preliminary
activity seeks to achieve a consensus on the priorities and local requests from indigenous groups relative to
the provision of services to be provided under the Project. The definition of the strategy will be completed
before the date of the World Bank's Loan effectiveness and will include information on socioeconomic
aspects, organizational structures and needs for capacity-building activities. To guarantee full local
participation, the consultants will seek inputs from local governments, institutions and civil society
organizations to guide the implementation of the Project.
Simultaneously, a consultancy will be carried out to define the communication strategy and address the
issue of indiscriminate access to information. At the same time, these consultancies will carry out an
analysis of the mechanisms already in place, to identify whether there is a need to strengthen the
intercultural inclusion. The consultation and communication strategies will need to be defined prior to the
implementation of the Project. This in order to guarantee that they will provide meaningful inputs into the
realization of the different sub-components such as the pilot projects for rural electricity and
telecommunications services and the pilot projects for the development of ICT-based business services in
peri-urban and rural zones.
It will be necessary to ensure that the subsidies granted in the provision of rural electricity and
telecommunications and promotion of efficient use of electricity will reach the targeted indigenous
populations, and that there will be full compliance with World Bank safeguard policies. Also, the provision
of electricity into remote areas will take into account the limitations imposed by dispersed populations, to
ensure that altemative energy systems and adequate maintenance schemes will be identified that could reach
these populations.
- 120 -



Cost Estimate and Action Plan for Indigenous Peoples, and consultations with other beneficiaries and
stakeholders
Activity            Priority  Implementation         Products              Costs
Period                                 in USD
ConsUl1tation                     1     10 months. The    0 Consultation strategy      270,000
* Define mechanisms to include          consultation       implemented.
indigenous requests.                 strategy design is   * Mechanisms to favor
* Ensure indigenous                     a condition of      inclusion in public
participation into the existing      Loan                 and private agencies
consultations mechanism.             effectiveness.       implemented.
* Define needs that link
consultation and
communications activities
targeting indigenous and other
beneficiaries and stakeholders.
* Ensure participation of
beneficiaries and other key
local governments and civil
society representatives.                                                            200,000
* Definition of actions,          1        22 months      * Services provided and      150,000
responsibilities and schedule of                          subsequent
indigenous Plan.                                         improvement in quality
of life.
* Follow-up and supervision of                            * Informed beneficiaries.
Indigenous issues.                                        Documentation
published.
* Assistance in
capacity-building and
training activities
_____________________________     implemented.
* Evaluation of indigenous       2      5 months. Second   * Project impact on          80,000
beneficiaries and opinion polls.       year of Project   indigenous
* Evaluation of other                   implementation.     communities and other
beneficiaries and opinion polls.                          beneficieries has been
5 months. Second    assessed.
year of Project
implementation.                              100,000
TOTAL                                                                       800,000
- 121 -



- 122.-



815          eoQ~~~~~.0         79  ,n.7:                            7                  762
S56$ <                              ~~~ECUADOR
_l - ESkERA&DAS$AS 9 3 ELECTRICITY SECTOR l
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    0      
< v5 _ p MW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ER \N
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO. 11.
| | I l Wn    goY '< S  X           S                    ,                       X i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~id
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.UUi A  .t
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                E 
4  9  /  dR EV IRANShilSS ON LINES~~~~~~~GPu                                3 m
4/ , (:X> , X X RA ~~~~~~~~~ROSAD
(    P E R U    ,r   -   _L   /t/  C  t~~~~~~~51. AMW  AM-a                      OT
)                  <| //    s    _  X   <   7    . | t:          >         c   RIVERS~~~~~~~~~AXI 
ERIPA            SLtJt)                >iSAStr aLZ       E    --INENTOALRUDRE
0 25 50 75 ~~MWV1-c   lb.,NmA5 ,     0   .  
KlLOMErERS                 SLA   %          S      aRKSTOeAL<76 M
on~ ~ ~ ~~6 his Ea doE.ipy nfh  :  fTeW    BkGopmyEE
EI   .E          EI Ll. TT 3






~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C           O L  O M   B  I A
$; < J WNGA _ g^D>/ , _R @  4 A      t
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I      _j// 
GU;? C~~~~~~~~~J) X~~~ACAS7 - e                 /                .
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  Doin ws'PP 
0 [ < - k qu^=\ 7@' tX 5 77~~~~~~os|  HEtECEHL CEST
M~~~~~~~alc t        De       ig Un itAo  ; he od  Ban IB' ..RILOD
_50~~~~~~~~tl   ths co do no mly 6on h pr t o f 5o-SAt-AROT
TheWo/dBak Gou, ny{jdgnen - 1 I VE RS
suchbounarie 1 l ||.- t_ _ NTERATIOAL BONARE






77'                     7an
N                                        ~~~~~~~ECUADOR
\~     0  0  B  APOWER AND COMMUNICATIONS
1=               -                                                   la~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Pasta  SECTORS MODERNIZATION  AND
RURAL SERVICES PROJECT(PROMEC)
PACIFIC    (            \\\   ~~~~~~~~REGION  'I  Ode   ZQ. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
~~R A  C  I F I C-                                           d.~.  eey
N \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 
N  ~~~~~~       ""' ~~~~~~~ QUITO AREA                SeAaren\=
El C----~~~~~~~~~~~~~amne                                                         C a
~~  Caenqei N  C,ee ~~~~~~~~emo~
REGION    2                                                                             KILO'MEATERoS 2N  11) 
78,30'
'A~~~~~~~~~~~~/2
E~~~~~~~~~
C-h.. ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     A
T!,                    I.. ~~Eacahi,.( Xeta IOO-
B..,  M- u-                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~76'
O,nae-          S-6L.1/                                                   EXISTING
Gnyoqyr  AM
P-j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~*                                        TRANSIT EXCHANGES (MULTIPLE IN
Peal                                                                             ONn Iael7   UITO AND GUAYAQUIL)
~ ~~~71  pp- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*LOCAL EXCHANGES
b  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAMQ-III&                                                      AREPEATERS
~~~w- ~~~~~ANALOG MICROWAVE LINKS
An                                                114019 MAARIIPM,.                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(960 channel)
S  'toaehickeeba   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                   ' ~~~LOW CAPAC ITY MICROWAVE LINKS
I.  ,~~~~~  "'                 flEA SAN ~~~~~~~~~~~4IA4 ~~~DIGITAL MICROWAVE (140O Mb!,)
____DIGITAL MICROWAVE (34 Mb!,)
0   25   50   75  100                                                            14    EARTH STATIONS
KIIOME-EISA"' lLA                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TThin map ecptd-cd by Ic. MapDe , U    nit1      Weld Sa-k,     SBL
Thhod,eetc-lec,deaae,ca-,fTkdaaeWn,nle ca.cnkn'G-       ""2,1  Te,aparat,cghanseeoch-
____________________  ~ ~        MWsRA           Map d-ea -el ch- i-eltd rura aynte-






IBRD 31553
81'                  6tA '           ,   ! ,2.                   78                    77'                   76
1   EsMERADA2           sS  <C 0    o 0 M B I A
E A N~~~~~A  B
-0'
Balhia de Car6quej
55lin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R  P ,/ 1 A  tN  At
MICo.to  U2N...             OT P        1      A                                TELEC MMUNIATIO
I'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 
Amg~~~~~~~~~~~
2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ACA         14           ",          9 25 0  75  tOO
GuY3aqur1                                                          .7                         H        SERVICESSTO
M'CktL                                   7OTELECOMMUNICATION
  -~~~~       .Z  OR.                   AL            ISLANDSE o~w  PERCENTAGE OFHOUSEH~OLDSWITH AC.CESS
_^   > ptsco   i n  /gZ                      t5(4 FltHtNA                         OS~~~~~~~~~~~~~0%- 7.5%
\.  X<L  O S A p    l    /                35tA Gft>VFA       -g  ~~~~~~~~~7.5S - I 9,.t%
( f 8 t 0XX, 'A                  'AC1FIC    OCEAN -9._                       9.%- 67.9%
P   E   R   U  *           \_ )_  l  i/          _  1   <   -. IsLA.$AN SALVAWR                   -       PAYED ROADS
This map was produced by the      k                     -                                               OTHER ALLR WEATHER ROADS
Map Design Unit of The World Bak                                                                *-'--NAN  RAIROAD
The boundaries, colors, denominatioons                                    AWi   *_A*  CRW               AILRPORT
and anyother inforroioan shownon      *-   IS5EA                  5        i       ;               4    AIRORTS
-t'  this map do nor irmply, an the port.o1' 5'              ISABELA 'A A  C11                             .   PORIS
Th World thac DGrOop ony judgment                 ;ISLABEL-                SAN                          RiERTS
an the legalstatus of any territory or                        ISLAPRO-I----ORIV
any endorsement or acceptance of                          SANOAIMACE
such boundaries.                       0      S                                                 -.-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
81  80'             KtLOMETERB      1A 92010
t                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 2001



