Page  1
June 25, 2001
H.E. Heinz Moeller
Ministro de Asuntos Exteriores
Ministerio de Asuntos Exteriores
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Carrion
Quito, Ecuador
Ing. Antonio Peré
Director Ejecutivo
Consejo Nacional de Modernización del Estado (CONAM)
Av. Juan León Mera y Av. Patria
Edificio Corporación Financiera Nacional, Piso 10
Quito, Ecuador
Re:
Japanese Grant for the preparation of the Power and Communications 
Sectors Modernization and Rural Services Project (PROMEC Project), 
formerly Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization Technical 
Assistance Project (PERPTAL Project) - TF No. 025959
Amendment to the Japanese Grant Agreement
Excellency and Dear Sir:
Please refer to the agreement between the Republic of Ecuador (the Recipient) 
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated January 
31, 2001 with regard to the above-captioned Project (the Japanese Grant Agreement).
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to CONAM’s request and our recent 
discussions on the subject, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Japanese Grant 
Agreement so as to incorporate the standard special provisions for procurement in 
Ecuador.
Consequently the Japanese Grant Agreement is amended by inserting new Parts E 
and F at the end of Attachment I to read as follows in their entirety:
"Part E:
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other 
provisions set forth in this Attachment or the Consultant Guidelines, the 
following provisions shall govern all employment of consultants:
(a)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered 
as a condition of participation in the selection process.
(b)
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or 
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts 
to any local firm or person.
(c)
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to 
provide services, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital different 
from 
that required for Ecuadorian firms.
(d)
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be 
required to pay fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants’ Association that are 
different from those required for Ecuadorian consultants.
(e)
No consultant financed by proceeds of this Grant shall, at the 
time he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as 
consultant, hold civil service office or any other position in an agency of 
the Recipient or any Ecuadorian public sector entity, nor shall such 
consultant have any right to re-entry into any such office or position upon 
the conclusion of his or her consulting services.
Part F:
Internal Approvals
With respect to any contract for the employment of consultants to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, any approval of requests of 
proposals or contracts required under the laws of the Recipient shall be given 
Page  2
by CONAM."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the space provided below and returning the same to the undersigned.  
This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an 
original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The 
provisions of this amendment letter will become effective, as of the date of this 
letter, once the Bank has received on executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Country Director
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Jaime Marchán
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 31, 2001
