Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF050016-EC
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant
 Agreement
(Power and Communications Sectors Modernization and Rural Services Project- 
PROMEC)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency
of the Global Environment Facility
Dated May 15, 2002
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF050016-EC
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) acting as Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (the GEF), in 
respect of grant funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) 
Page  2
by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of its 
Executive Directors, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global environment 
and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors 
of the Bank, which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund, authorized the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as Trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 
No. 94-2);
WHEREAS (C) the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the Bank 
(Resolution No. 98-2);
WHEREAS (D) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient (as 
Borrower) and the Bank (acting in its own capacity) (the Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed 
to make available a loan for the carrying out of the project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement (the Project) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty-three million 
Dollars ($23,000,000) (the Loan), but only on condition that the Recipient agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth on this Agreement;
WHEREAS (E) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project, has requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding Parts 
B.2, B.3 and C of the Project, and said request having been approved in accordance with the 
provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment 
Facility approved under Resolution 94-2 and to be funded from the resources of the GEF Trust 
Fund;
WHEREAS (F) the Recipient and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant be disbursed pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement 
(as applicable) on account of expenditures in respect of Part B.2, B.3 and C of the Project before 
the disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made in 
respect of such Parts of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to 
Page  3
Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 
(as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) (8), (9), (10), (14), (15), (16), 
(18) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Section 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International Monetary 
Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof, and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 (a) thereof, means the Bank acting as an Implementing 
Agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall 
also include the Bank acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
Page  4
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the account to be opened by 
the Bank on its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant will be credited; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph (q) shall be added after subparagraph (p) in Section 
6.02 as follows:
“(q) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Preamble to this Agreement, in the General Conditions and in the Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“GEF Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“GEF Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(c)
“GEF Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d)
“GEF Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(e)
“GEF Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million two hundred and sixty thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR2,260,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for Parts B.2, B.3 and C of the Project and to be financed out of the 
Page  5
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Executive Director of CONAM or any person designated by him or her 
in writing is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end shall carry out, through CONAM, 
with the participation of MEM, Parts B.2, B.3 and C of the Project, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial, administrative, managerial, 
public services and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts B.2, B.3 and C of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the provisions of Sections 3.01 
(b) and (c), 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a) (i), 3.04 (b), 3.06 through 3.08, 3.10 through 3.12 of the Loan 
Agreement and Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement 
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all 
references therein to the “Bank” shall be deemed to be references to the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF under this Agreement, all references to the “Borrower” shall be 
deemed to be references to the Recipient, all references to the “Loan” shall be deemed to be 
references to the GEF Trust Fund Grant, all references to “Implementing Agency” shall be 
deemed to be references to MEM, and Section 3.10 is modified to refer only to any Electricity 
Enhancement Pilot Subproject Agreement or any Rural Electrification Pilot Subproject 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient (through MEF and CONAM) shall enter into a subsidiary 
agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to provide the transfer to 
CONAM of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
Categories set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the counterpart 
funds required for the implementation of Parts B.2, B.3 and C of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower (through MEF) shall exercise its rights under the GEF Subsidiary 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant and except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the GEF 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, within CONAM, a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable 
to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts B.2, 
B.3 and C of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account were made on the basis of GEF Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
Page  7
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the GEF 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient, through CONAM, shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable 
to the Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for Parts B.2, B.3 and C of 
the Project in order to enable CONAM, not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date or 
such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly GEF Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Parts B.2, B.3 
and C of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for Parts B.2, B.3 
and C of the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in the implementation of such Parts of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts B.2, B.3 and C of the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Recipient, through CONAM, shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a GEF Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as condition precedent to the effectiveness 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that all events specified in the Loan Agreement as conditions to its 
effectiveness have occurred.
Page  8
Section 5.02. The date August 14, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
Foreign Affairs is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Carrion
Quito, Ecuador
Facsimile:
(5932) 501002
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By
/s/ Ivonne A. Baki
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility
By
/s/ Jane Armitage
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Part A
. General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust
% of
Fund Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods for
350,000
100% of foreign 
Parts B.2, B.3 and
expenditures and 80%
C of the Project,
of local expenditures
other than those 
financed by the Loan
Page  10
(2)
Consultants’ services
1,640,000
100%
(including training) 
for Parts B.2, B.3 
and C of the Project,
other than those 
financed by the Loan
(3)
Unallocated
270,000
TOTAL
2,260,000
2.
For the purposes of this Part A of Schedule 1, the terms:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures for goods supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower (if not sold while within the customs territory of 
the Borrower prior to such goods' acquisition for use under the Project);
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures for goods supplied from the territory of 
the Borrower (i.e., sold while within the customs territory of the Borrower for such goods' first 
use under the Project) regardless of those goods' territory of origin; and
(c)
“training” means the cost of: (i) per diem and travel expenses of trainees; (ii) 
rental of training facilities and equipment; (iii) training materials; and (iv) training fees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, other than the 
contract referred to in Part D.2(b) of Section of I of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement; 
(b)
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
(c)
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $30,000 equivalent; and
(d)
training,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
Page  11
Part B
. GEF Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in its Central 
Bank or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including in case of a commercial bank appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the GEF Special Account has 
been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be deposited 
into the GEF Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first GEF Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Recipient for 
withdrawal on the basis of GEF Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a GEF Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for withdrawal 
on the basis of GEF Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the GEF Special Account shall be made exclusively for GEF Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the GEF Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for GEF 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the GEF Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any GEF Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the GEF Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of GEF Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the GEF Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to 
Page  12
make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the GEF Special Account may be made and what procedures should 
be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the GEF Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the GEF Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the GEF 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for GEF Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the GEF Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of GEF Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of GEF Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
$250,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the GEF 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $100,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed $500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
GEF Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the GEF Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
Page  13
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the GEF Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the GEF Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the GEF Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account and deposit into the GEF Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the GEF Special Account for GEF Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the 
GEF Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
under one or more of the GEF Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the GEF Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the GEF Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for GEF Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of GEF Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of GEF Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all withdrawals 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the GEF Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the GEF Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under one or more of the GEF Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for deposit 
into the GEF Special Account shall be supported by a GEF Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the respective GEF Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: 
Page  14
(a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the 
GEF Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance GEF Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said GEF Project Management Report to be remaining in the GEF Special Account, 
shall not exceed $500,000.
